Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We may encounter difficulties or challenges in satisfying our obligations under our 5G development agreements and may not be able to meet the anticipated timeline for commencing shipment of 5G chipsets, which may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. If the 5th generation (5G) market does not develop or develops more slowly than expected, or if we fail to accurately predict market requirements or market demand for 5G solutions, our financial performance will be adversely affected. Our products target primarily certain segments in the 5G markets, including fixed wireless access, mobile broadband, and M2M applications, and if these markets do not develop or grow as anticipated, our financial performance will be adversely affected. We depend on the commercial deployment of 4th generation (4G) long term evolution (LTE) and 5G communications equipment, products and services to grow our business, and our business may be harmed if wireless carriers delay in the adoption of 5G standards, or if they deploy technologies that are not supported by our solutions. If we are unsuccessful in developing and selling new products or in penetrating new markets, our business and operating results would suffer. iii Table of Contents If customers do not design our semiconductor solutions into their product offerings or if our customers product offerings are not commercially successful, we would have difficulty selling our semiconductor solutions and our business would suffer. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may not increase or maintain our revenue or market share. We rely on a small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue, and the loss of, or a reduction in, orders from these customers could result in a substantial decline in our revenue. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production, and if we fail to forecast demand for our products accurately, we may incur product shortages, delays in product shipments or excess or insufficient product inventory, which could harm our business. We do not have long-term capacity agreements with our foundries and they may not allocate sufficient capacity to allow us to meet future demands for our products, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to secure capacity agreements in the future. If our foundry vendors do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our reputation, customer relationships and financial performance could be harmed. Our business may be impacted by political events, war, terrorism, business interruptions and other geopolitical events and uncertainties beyond our control, including the Russian-Ukraine and conflicts in the Middle East. Risks Related to our Finances We have a history of losses, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future, on a quarterly or annual basis. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could have a material effect on our business and financial condition if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or unable to raise capital on favorable terms. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our operations, including our ability to perform our obligations and fund working capital. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights adequately could impair our ability to compete effectively or to defend ourselves from litigation. The enforcement and protection of our intellectual property may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents, and could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property and by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. We rely upon third parties for supporting technology that is integrated into some of our products, and if we are unable to continue to use this technology and future technology, our ability to sell technologically advanced products would be limited. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock and Our Corporate Structure The market price of our Common Stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. We do not intend to pay dividends on our Common Stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our Common Stock. Our major shareholder exerts significant influence over our business and affairs. Future sales of shares of Common Stock may depress our stock price iv Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Company Overview GCT Semiconductor Holding, Inc. (GCT or the Company) was founded in Silicon Valley, California in 1998 as GCT Semiconductor, Inc., and the Company is a fabless semiconductor company that specializes in the design, manufacturing and sale of communication semiconductors, including high-speed wireless communication technologies such as 5G/4.75G/4.5G/4G transceivers (RF) and modems, which are essential for a wide variety of industrial, B2B and consumer applications. We have successfully developed and supplied communication semiconductor chipsets and modules to leading wireless operators worldwide, as well as to original design manufacturers (ODMs) and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) for portable wireless routers (e.g., Mobile Router/MiFi), indoor and outdoor fixed wireless routers (e.g., Customer Premises Equipment (CPE)), industrial M2M applications and smartphones. We oversee sales, marketing and accounting operations from our headquarters in San Jose, California. The Company conducts product design, development and customer support through our fully owned subsidiaries, GCT Research Inc. (GCT R) and MTH, Inc. (MTH), both of which are located in South Korea. GCT R serves as our research and development center. In addition, we utilize separate sales offices for local technical support and sales in Taiwan, China, and Japan. Our current product portfolio includes RF and modem chipsets based on 4th generation (4G) Long Term Evolution (LTE) technology, offering a variety of chipsets differentiated by speed and functionality. These include 4G LTE, 4.5G LTE Advanced (twice the speed of LTE) and 4.75G LTE Advanced-Pro (four times the speed of LTE) chipsets. We also develop and sell cellular Internet of Things (IoT) chipsets for low-speed mobile networks such as eMTC/NB-IOT/Sigfox, and other network protocols. Notably, we leverage our proprietary knowledge and patents, which have been proven in 4G products to employ up to eight receiving antennas in sub-6GHz wireless bands, extending the receive-coverage and throughput by more than two times compared to the case of using two or four receiving antennas. We also employ up to four transmitting antennas, enhancing the transmission coverage and throughput compared to using only one or two transmission antennas. Several top tier wireless operators have engaged the Company as a result of this unique technology. Building on this competitive advantage, we are currently developing RF and modem chipsets based on 5th generation (5G) new radio (NR), which is at the core of the next-generation mobile communication technology. 5G technology provides speeds up to ten times faster than traditional 4G LTE communication, significantly reduces latency and supports essential capabilities for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, such as high-speed, low-latency, and highly reliable and cost-effective internet connections for technologies like artificial intelligence, autonomous driving and the metaverse. Therefore, 5G communication semiconductors are considered a crucial and indispensable technology for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, particularly for enabling the metaverse, where social, economic and cultural activities take place in virtual environments. Our 5G chipsets, in particular, leverage the advantages of our proven patented technology which significantly improves performance through the use of multiple antennas for both transmission and reception. This makes them highly suitable for 5G-based ultra-high-speed wireless internet services, such as fixed wireless access (FWA). 5G-based ultra-high-speed wireless internet offers cost-effective, high-speed internet services with a short latency time, enabling a new class of internet services and media offerings delivered over-the-air rather than via physical networks built on fiber, coax or legacy copper technologies. This positions our 5G chipsets as a promising solution for mobile operators to establish a foothold in next-generation services and to compete effectively against cable management services organizations (MSOs) and other network players. Even as more and more applications are deployed on 5G networks, we nonetheless anticipate continued demand for our existing 4G LTE product lineup (4.75G/4.5G/4G, etc.) for the foreseeable future, because 4G products are expected to coexist in the market with 5G products at lower price points for some time in the same way that 3rd generation (3G) products coexisted with 4G products when 4G networks were first deployed. We expect introduction of our 5G products beginning in the first half of 2025. Also, we expect the average sales prices for our 5G chipset to be approximately four times that of our 4G chipset, resulting in a significant increase in revenue and gross margins. We plan to continuously expand our product lineup to support 5G chipsets for future applications such as vehicle-to-everything standard (e.g., C-V2X), 5G-based satellite communication (e.g., Non-Terrestrial Network) and 5G-based IoT standard (e.g., RedCap). Our current chipset products are used in a wide variety of applications, including fixed wireless subscriber terminals (e.g., CPE), mobile wireless routers (e.g., Mobile Router/MiFi), various communication modules and devices, and industrial products. Evolution of Wireless Technologies As the demand for mobile communication has evolved from voice-centric to data-centric, technology has continuously evolved. The 1st generation (1G) analog cellular system introduced the concept of the cell to facilitate frequency reuse. Due to the limitations of analog 1 Table of Contents technology, the rapidly growing demand for mobile phones led to the transition to 2nd generation (2G) digital communication systems. Notable 2G digital mobile phone systems include Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM) using Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA) and Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA). GSM was adopted in Europe, while CDMA was adopted in the United States, Korea, and other regions. 2G had limitations due to the broad mixture of technologies and differences in frequency bands, making international roaming difficult and providing limited multimedia services due to low transmission speeds. The need to unify wireless transmission technologies for international roaming services and more led to the development of 3rd generation (3G) mobile communication, such as IMT-2000, W-CDMA, and CDMA2000. 3G not only provided voice and low-speed data like 2G but also supported multimedia services, including video. Up until the adoption of 3G, there was significant demand for circuit-switched services, but as the internet became widespread, the demand for packet services also grew. This led to technological advancements with 3G, resulting in technologies like Evolution-Data Only (EV-DO) and High Speed Packet Access (HSPA). Generation System Multiple access technology Peak user data rate 1G AMPS FDMA 2G IS-95 CDMA 9600bps GSM TDMA 0.104Mbps 3G W-CDMA W-CDMA 0.384Mbps CDMA2000 CDMA 0.153Mbps 3.5G EV-DO CDMA/TDMA 3.072Mbps HSPA W-CDMA 14.4Mbps 4G LTE DL: OFDMA UL: SC-FDMA DL: 100Mbps UL: 50Mbps WiMAX OFDMA DL: 128Mbps UL: 56Mbps LTE-A DL: OFDMA UL: SC-FDMA DL: 1Gbps UL: 500Mbps 5G NR OFDMA Up-to 10Gbps The increased demand for wireless data services after 3G led to the development of 4G technology, known as LTE. While Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX) was another 4G technology, the market eventually consolidated around LTE. LTE was defined by the 3rd generation partnership project (3GPP), which established the Rel-8/9 standards. LTE later evolved into LTE-Advanced (LTE-A) and 3Band LTE-A, including standards like Rel-10 and beyond, which introduced technologies like Carrier Aggregation (CA), Coordinated Multi-Point (CoMP), relaying, and Multi-Input Multi-Output (MIMO). 4G Technology Features Carrier Bandwidth Downlink peak throughput LTE (4G : CAT3) Technology that is approximately 5 times faster for downloads and about 7 times faster for uploads than traditional WCDMA 10MHz 75Mbps Wideband LTE (4G : CAT4) Mobile communication services that are twice as fast as LTE, utilizing a 20MHz wideband LTE frequency 20MHz 150Mbps Wideband LTE-A (4.5G : CAT6) Mobile communication services that utilize CA (Carrier Aggregation) technology by combining a 20MHz wideband LTE frequency with a 10MHz LTE frequency 30MHz (20+10MHz) 225Mbps 4x4MIMO LTE-A (4.5G : CAT5) Mobile communication services that use 4x4 MIMO (Multiple Input Multiple Output) with 4 antennas to double the speed on a 20MHz wideband LTE frequency 20MHz 300Mbps 3Band LTE-A (4.75G : CAT12) Mobile communication services that utilize CA technology to use a 40MHz LTE frequency. 60MHz (20+20+20MHz) 600Mbps 5G communication evolved from 4G as a communication technology needed for the Hyper-Connected Revolution of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, where various industry technologies converge. The Fourth Industrial Revolution represents the convergence of ICT-based technologies and advanced digital technologies, like artificial intelligence, robotics, virtual reality, augmented reality, 3D printing, biotechnology and quantum computing, among others. This technology convergence creates a new era where people + places + objects + products are interconnected based on artificial intelligence. 5G is an essential communication technology that enables the Fourth Industrial Revolution and related technology convergence by realizing ultra-fast wireless communication (eMBB: enhanced Mobile Broadband), ultra-low latency reliable communication (URLLC: Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communication), and massive machine-type communication for hyper-connected objects (mMTC: massive machine type communication). 2 Table of Contents 5G Technology Features Carrier Bandwidth Downlink peak throughput Sub-6Ghz (FR1) NR 5G that support frequency bands ranging from 400MHz to 6GHz, offering over 4 times faster response processing than LTE and more than twice the frequency bandwidth 100MHz 2.3Gbps mmWave(FR2) NR 5G that utilize millimeter-wave frequency bands of 24GHz, 28GHz, and 39GHz, providing over 8 times faster response processing than LTE and supporting over 8 times wider frequency bandwidth 800MHz (8 x 100MHz) 6.5Gbps EN-DC (NSA) 5G that transmit data combining both 4G LTE and 5G NR, aggregating them to increase transmission speed and address initial 5G network coverage issues 4G LTE band + 5G FR1 100MHz or 5G FR2 800MHz 3Gbps (FR1) 7Gbps (FR2) FR1 NR SA 5G standalone mode mobile communication services in the Sub-6GHz frequency band without 4G LTE 200MHz (100 + 100MHz) 4.6Gbps FR1+FR2 NR-DC 5G standalone mode dual-connectivity mobile communication services that connect Sub-6GHz frequency band NR and millimeter-wave frequency band NR simultaneously 500MHz (100 + 400MHz) 6Gbps 5G is now growing in all regions around the world. According to the Ericsson Mobility Report published in June 2024, at the end of 2023, 5G subscribers accounted for 59% of the total communication subscribers in North America and 10% in India. During the first quarter of 2024, total 5G subscriptions exceeded 1.7 billion worldwide. Further, it is anticipated that 5G subscriptions will continue to increase, reaching 5.6 billion globally by end of 2029. 3 Table of Contents Expanding Fixed Wireless Access Fixed Wireless Access (FWA) service provides data and voice (VoLTE or VoNR) connectivity by connecting data terminals through indoor or outdoor fixed CPE to mobile communication networks, offering services comparable to traditional wired line networks such as xDSL, cable, or fiber optics. The wireless network connection approach is advantageous for quick installation in areas with existing mobile communication infrastructure, especially in regions where installing conventional wired networks is challenging or economically impractical. However, traditional wireless networks face limitations, such as lower speed when multiple devices are connected simultaneously, and the performance of user devices that vary based on the environment or location of such user devices relative to the base station, diminishing their competitiveness compared to wired line networks. However, recently introduced FWA technologies, including gigabit-speed 4G LTE Advanced or 5G NR, offer speeds faster than DSL or cable networks, addressing the shortcomings of traditional wireless connections. Especially in frequency bands above 3 GHz, 5G FWA can deliver service with 100 MHz or more of bandwidth, or in the millimeter-wave spectrum above 20 GHz, 5G FWA can utilize 800 MHz or more of bandwidth, achieving performance comparable to optical fiber communications. This makes FWA an attractive alternative technology that can overcome the significant installation costs associated with fiber optics for new installation areas. According to the Ericsson Mobility Report, as of the end of 2023, FWA services based on 4G and 5G have already exceeded 130 million subscriptions. FWA services are projected to grow at an annual rate of 17% (2023-2029 CAGR), reaching over 330 million subscriptions by 2029, which is 2.5 times the number of subscriptions at the end of 2023. 5G-based FWA services are expected to grow even faster, surpassing 4G-based FWA subscriptions by 2025 and constituting 85% of the total FWA services by 2029. Particularly in the U.S. market, 5G-based FWA connections grew significantly from 5 million in the 1st quarter of 2023 to almost 9 million 1 year later and are predicted to grow at a rate of 40% annually through 2025. FWA devices come in two main types: Outdoor CPE (ODU, Outdoor Customer Premises Equipment) with performance-boosting external antennas for improved wireless signal reception in wider areas, and Indoor CPE (IDU, Indoor Customer Premises Equipment), which can be installed in various indoor locations for user convenience. Outdoor CPE has the advantage of higher performance but requires external antenna installation and the installation of separate cables to deliver power and data, resulting in higher installation and device costs. On the other hand, Indoor CPE, while having the disadvantage of impaired wireless reception due to the scattering and attenuation of external radio signals, offers ease of installation without the need for external antennas or additional cabling work, which results in lower installation and device costs. Notably, with speeds exceeding Gbps and network latency of 1ms or less, 5G communication technology has faster data throughput and reduced delay compared to wired communication options like DSL or cable. Moreover, the deployment of 5G networks for FWA is facilitated by the presence of existing 5G infrastructure developed by mobile network operators for smartphones. 4 Table of Contents This has prompted numerous prominent mobile service providers to view 5G-based FWA as a new growth driver, in contrast to saturation in the mobile phone market, leading to substantial anticipated subscriber expansion. Business Development Overview The Fourth Industrial Revolution is rapidly unfolding worldwide, driven by the increasing adoption of key enabling communication technologies such as 4.5G, 4.75G, and 5G wireless networks. This growth has led to the emergence of a high-speed wireless internet-based 4.5G/4.75G/5G wireless broadband market and related wireless devices and chipsets. We specialize in providing baseband modems, RF chipsets, and protocol software that enable stable communication on 4.5G/4.75G/5G wireless carrier networks. Wireless modems consist of both hardware components, such as RF transceivers and baseband modems, and software responsible for modem operation, protocol processing and system operation. These elements must work together seamlessly to deliver optimal performance and solutions, making this a critical technology for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. However, there are very few companies globally that can commercialize these technologies, given their high complexity and technological barriers. We have continuously focused on wireless communication product development since our establishment, and believe our core technologies and compatibility testing capabilities acquired during the development and sale of our competitive wireless communication chipsets are unique and not easily duplicated by new entrants in the market. Thus, we have secured a strong competitive position by providing competitive and optimized solutions in the mobile communication market where different generations of technology coexist. We possess essential core technologies for enhancing the wireless data communication capabilities of competitive 4G/4.5G/4.75G/5G chipsets. We commercialized wireless communication chipset technology using four or eight multiple antennas to achieve outstanding performance improvements in speed, coverage expansion, and interference reduction, earning recognition from top global carriers. We introduced the 4x4 MIMO 4.5G chipset technology with four antennas in Japan, followed by commercialization of eight-antenna products in the United States and Europe. RF/modem chipset technology using multiple antennas is particularly vital for FWA services that require stable data communication without interruptions in fixed locations. In countries and regions where it is challenging to install high-speed wired networks, such as optical fiber, due to geographical, technical and economic reasons, wireless broadband FWA using 4G and 5G is an increasingly cost-efficient alternative. This service is rapidly expanding worldwide as a core component of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. We have commercialized competitive wireless communication chipset products, including 4G/4.5G/4.75G, by actively adapting to the evolution of new wireless standard technologies and developing specialized technologies, such as multi antenna modem chipsets, in close collaboration with major carriers worldwide. In addition, we have taken a proactive role in chipset certification and product validation processes required for stable operation on wireless networks, which allows us to gain further credibility from major carriers. We have developed and commercialized chipsets for various product categories corresponding to 4G, 4.5G and 4.75G including LTE-based IoT chipsets. In collaboration with a leading worldwide wireless operator (the Operator), we are currently developing competitive and innovative 5G chipsets that support 5G sub-6GHz and mmWave spectrums. We have established a close relationship with the Operator for over 12 years. In 2019, we entered into a Joint Development Agreement (JDA) with the Operator for the design 5 Table of Contents and development of 5G chipsets for FWA, mobile broadband and modules. Pursuant to the JDA, we agree to perform certain services for and collaborate with such Operator to develop semiconductor chipsets, software and related reference designs, and then supply such items to the Operator and our suppliers. Under the JDA, we are required to perform certain services to achieve specified development milestones, and the Operator is required to pay a one-time payment to us upon achievement of each milestone. The JDA also includes other terms with respect to the supply of chipsets, including most favored status protection for the Operator and our suppliers and certain rebate fees based on worldwide sales of chipsets developed under the JDA. We also agree to grant the Operator various non-exclusive, non-terminable licenses for the use of certain source code and work product developed under the JDA, provided that we retains all worldwide rights, title and interest in and to all intellectual property rights embedded and contained in the chipsets provided to the Operator. The JDA includes customary representations, warranties and covenants and has an initial term of three (3) years, and thereafter automatically renews for one-year period at each annual anniversary of the effective date of the JDA unless written notice not to renew is provided by the parties 90 days prior to the expiration date. In addition, the Operator may terminate the JDA (i) at any time upon written notice to us; (ii) if our business is materially changed by sale of our business, transfer of control of our outstanding stock, merger or otherwise to a competitor of the Operator; or (iii) immediately upon written notice if there is a material breach of the JDA by us and we fail to cure such breach after 30 days. As part of this arrangement, we are applying the same multiple antenna reception technology to our 5G chipsets that received recognition from top carriers worldwide for 4G, 4.5G and 4.75G products. We plan to offer three different 5G chipset solutions, taking into account various market demands for performance, functionality, and price ranges, similar to our existing 4G LTE products. Additionally, we differentiate ourselves from the dominant chipset provider in the market by providing customized solutions tailored to the specific needs of wireless carriers. Our wireless communication chipsets can be used in virtually all wireless broadband data devices driving the Fourth Industrial Revolution, excluding smartphones. These terminal devices that can use our wireless communication chipsets include essential CPE for all wireless broadband FWA services and mobile routers (MiFi) that offer wireless internet connections sharing via WiFi, even while on the move. Our chipsets can also be adopted into devices such as laptops and tablets, card-type modules that provide communication functionality for IoT and industrial applications, wireless monitoring equipment and wireless smart meters. In addition, we plan to expand our product lineup continuously to support 5G chipsets for future applications such as vehicle-to-everything standard (C-V2X), 5G-based satellite communication (Non-Terrestrial Network) and 5G-based IoT standard (RedCap), which can create additional markets with comparable volume to existing broadband markets. We are one of only a handful of remaining companies worldwide with commercially proven 4G LTE & 5G solutions, leveraging leading-edge multi-antenna modem technology to provide differentiated solutions to wireless operators. High barriers to entry, market pushback against incumbents and political sanctions against certain offshore suppliers have led to few reliable alternatives for 4G/5G modem chipset suppliers. These factors have created a timely opportunity for us to expand rapidly. We plan to maintain collaboration with our existing 4G wireless broadband FWA device manufacturers and partners as they transition to 5G. In the 5G space, we are considered an alternative solution provider with competitive pricing, as other options are limited except for the high-priced products of the top-ranked supplier. In particular, for medium-sized FWA device manufacturers, choosing the leading chipset supplier can create a significant cost burden as it often requires large upfront licensing fees and ongoing royalty payments, after commercialization. Our strategy is to offer the advantage of lower initial licensing costs and no additional licensing fee after commercialization. Moreover, having previously adopted our 4G solution and successfully commercializing it, FWA device manufacturers may find ease and convenience in seamless transition to GCTs 5G solution. In particular, the strong core technologies offered by us, such as the eight-antenna reception technology for improved efficiency and network coverage expansion, are highly recognized and needed by many wireless carriers and FWA device manufacturers. This can serve as significant motivation for wireless carriers and FWA device manufacturers to adopt our 4G/5G chipsets. In 2024, we made announcements regarding development agreements with FWA device manufacturers that will use our 5G chipsets. These announcements included one regarding an agreement with Kyocera and another regarding an agreement with a Tier One Telecommunications Supplier. Our Competitive Strengths We believe the following competitive strengths enable us to be a strong 4G and 5G wireless semiconductor provider by effectively addressing the challenges faced by customers: A strong track record of 4G execution: We were one of the first suppliers of 4G LTE chipsets for commercialization in many devices including smartphone, USB dongles, embedded wireless modem and CPE products. Also, we were the first provider of 4.5G 4x4 MIMO LTE chipsets for commercialization in 2015. This history as a proven supplier provides strong commercial and technology foundations to build upon to secure our position as a leading 5G supplier. 6 Table of Contents GCTs proprietary multi-antenna technology: We were the first eight-antenna LTE solution provider which is uniquely suited to relieve carriers looming network overloads arising from rapid FWA adoption. We believe this technology is prized by network operators given that it enables lower infrastructure costs and improved service. We believe we are one of the only suppliers with an eight-antenna solution in entry-level baseband/RF chipsets, positioning us uniquely in the marketplace. Multi-User (MU)-MIMO is a network capacity enhanced solution to support multiple UEs (User Equipment such as CPE) with multiple beams from the base station and is usually implemented with Massive-MIMO architecture. MU-MIMO provides the peak throughput for the whole network while Single-User (SU)-MIMO provides the peak throughput only for a single user. The best way to implement MU-MIMO is to use Massive-MIMO architecture with multiple antenna array at the base station, which can provide high spectrum efficiency through large multiplexing gain as well as antenna array gain. In MU-MIMO, beam control by the base station is not always perfect. As such, the dedicated beam to a specific UE can cause interference to another adjacent UE nearby. This can result in performance degradation unless there is an appropriate interference cancellation technology on the UE side. Our Multi-Antenna Modem provides superior interference cancellation performance on the UE side, even in the harsh MU-MIMO environment with multiple adjacent EUs, by utilizing eight-antenna reception technology implemented in our cost-effective dedicated hardware modem engine. Longstanding relationships with Tier 1 and Tier 2 network operators worldwide: We enjoy relationships with a global stable of network operators, who in some cases have done business with us for over a decade. These trusted relationships are central to our 5G business plan and our expectations of meaningful deployments in the United States as well as in Europe and Asia. Some of these customers have actively contributed to funding and defining our 5G roadmap in order to obtain strategic access to mission-critical components. In addition to network operators, we have longstanding relationships with ODMs and OEMs who in turn play a critical supply chain function for operators. We believe our proven ability to deliver products to specs and on time positions us favorably as we deploy our 5G portfolio. Highly differentiated & innovative modem architecture: Unlike traditional DSP-based modem solutions, we employ a scalable modular modem design based on optimized data-flow dedicated hardware engines, which provides scalable products with optimized cost structure without the de-featuring approach that other competitors usually take. Adoption of innovative, scalable 5G modern architecture to expand different product SKUs with minimum design effort and cost allows us to use cheaper wafer process nodes without trading off performance and complexity. Deep knowledge and expertise on wireless system-level architecture and signal processing: Our engineering team has deep and end-to-end knowledge and expertise on wireless system-level architectures and networks in relation to a broad range of wireless technologies including Wi-Fi, 4G/5G LTE and IoT. This enables us to serve as a trusted advisor and partner to wireless carriers, OEMs and infrastructure vendors to optimize the performance of their 4G/5G devices and networks. Fully integrated 4G/5G solutions: We provide the industry with highly integrated 4G/5G system-on-chips, or SoCs, integrating not only the baseband modem and RF but also the application CPU for networking function, which is an essential feature of FWA and can save on total solution cost by eliminating an extra network processor or interface ASIC in the platform. Products We have developed and commercialized a portfolio of 4G semiconductor solutions to address a variety of applications and market segments from high performance 4.75G (CAT12) solution to low power, low performance 4G IoT (CAT-M1/NB1). We offer baseband modem solutions to encode and decode data based on 4G protocols that serve as the core wireless processing platform for a 4G device; RF transceivers to transmit and receive wireless transmissions; and highly integrated SoC solutions that combine these and other functions into a single die or package. Our SoC solutions integrate the baseband modem and RF transceiver functions, and in some cases, with an applications processor and memory. This advanced level of integration reduces the size, cost, design complexity, and power consumption of the 4G solution. All of our baseband modem SoC products are provided with comprehensive software, including relevant source code, to enable manufacturers to efficiently integrate our solutions into their devices in a wide variety of environments. In addition, we provide customers with design support. This includes reference designs that specify recommended methods for interconnecting our chips to peripheral devices, such as host processors, memory and RF front-end components. Further, we provide customers with a warranty that our solutions are free from defects in materials and workmanship and will operate in material conformance with the provided specifications, entitling the customer to have the defective product repaired or replaced. 7 Table of Contents In addition to our various 4G LTE solutions that are currently available to our customers, we also have a number of 5G NR solutions in development that are expected to become available during 2025. Our products, including the expected availability of those products currently in the design stage of development, are summarized in the table and future roadmap below. Technology Product Type Function Expected Availability Key Features 4G GDM7243S CAT1/4 RF+BB NOW Integrated DRAM, multi-band RF 4G GDM7243ST CA1/4 RF+BB NOW Integrated DRAM, 400MHz~3.8GHz 4G GDM7243SL CAT1/4 RF+BB H1 2025 Enhancement features, Multi-mode 4G GDM7243i CAT-M1/NB1 RF+BB NOW eMTC/NB-IoT 4.5G GDM7243Q CAT-5/6/7 RF+BB NOW 2CA, 4x4MIMO, Integrating DRAM 4.5G GDM7243QT CAT-5/6/7 RF+BB NOW 2CA, 4x4MIMO, 600MHz~3.8GHz RF 4.75G GDM7243A CAT-12/15 RF+BB NOW 4CA, 4x4MIMO, 256QAM 4.75G GDM7243AU CAT-12/15 RF+BB NOW 4CA, 4x4MIMO, 256QAM, 600MHz~6GHz 4.75G GRF7243AU RF NOW 600MHz~6GHz, 4Rx/2Tx 5G GDM7259X FR1, FR2, CAT19 BB H1 2025 8Rx/4Tx, 8CA, 400MHz FR1, 800MHz FR2 5G GRF7259NR RF H1 2025 16Rx/4Tx, 400MHz~7GHz RF 5G GRF7255IF RF H1 2025 2Rx/2Tx, 800MHz BW, 7~9GHz IF 5G GDM7265X FR1, FR2, CAT15 BB H1 2025 8Rx/4Tx, 4CA, 200MHz FR1, 400MHz FR2 5G GRF7265NR RF H1 2025 8Rx/2Tx, 400MHz~7GHz RF 5G GDM7262X FR1, FR2, CAT15 BB H1 2025 8Rx/2Tx, 2CA, 100MHz FR1, V2X/NTN 5G GDM7235X Redcap, CAT1 RF+BB 2026 2Rx/2Tx, FR1 Cyclicality and Seasonality Wireless communication chipsets for FWA devices or industrial IoT modules typically have a relatively long lifespan because they are closely tied to network deployments, which are not easily changed due to significant capital expenditures. However, semiconductor solution sales can be subject to fluctuations over time due to the cyclicality inherent in the semiconductor industry and the supply and demand characteristics specific to this industry. We anticipate that these cyclical conditions will persist. While we have not observed a firmly established pattern of seasonality, business activities in Asia tend to slow down in the first quarter of each year during the Lunar New Year period. This is consistent with potential first quarter softness that other semiconductor suppliers experience in the consumer electronics space as a result of the fourth quarter holiday season (specifically the period from the last week of November to the second week of January). This slowdown could potentially impact our sales and operational results during that the first quarter period. Regulation We conduct reviews for all products from the early stages of development to determine whether they qualify as strategic items according to the U.S. Department of Commerces regulations. We prepare relevant documentation and submit it to the U.S. Department of Commerce for evaluation. The U.S. Department of Commerce reviews the items for Export Administration Regulations (EAR) compliance and ultimately assigns an Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) for the product, which is required for the export and shipment of products during both the manufacturing process and final product delivery. By attaching the relevant ECCN, GCT can ensure smooth movement and transportation without any issues. When an ECCN for a commercial product is classified as a strategic item, it may be subject to stricter export regulations. Therefore, if there is a perceived trend toward easing the classification approval by the U.S. Department of Commerce, we will seek re-evaluation for previously approved products that were classified as strategic items. If possible, we aim to have these products reclassified as non-strategic items to minimize regulatory constraints on export activities. Wireless devices equipped with our modem chipsets must undergo formal certification through official regulatory bodies, as well as specific testing and field verification by network operators before they can be approved for sale by those operators or approved for use on the operators network. Beyond the standard reliability testing for products, all critical aspects related to the performance and functionality of wireless devices are managed and executed by our modem chipsets and software. Therefore, the completeness of the solution provided by us is considered the most essential factor in the commercialization process. We offer chipset solutions that comply with radio certification regulations in different countries. Furthermore, leading mobile operators often implement their own product certification processes to ensure network security, performance optimization, and efficiency. In some cases, particularly with major operators, they may enforce the use of certified chipsets only in their products, even before product certification. We have collaboratively engaged with major operators in North America and Asia on multiple occasions to facilitate chipset certification. This cooperation has resulted in successful chipset certifications with various operators, including Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile, US Cellular, KDDI, SoftBank in Japan, and the three major telecom operators in South Korea. We continue to pursue ongoing certification for our evolving chipsets to ensure compliance with regulatory and operator requirements, and to make adoption by ODM and OEMs as carefree as possible. 8 Table of Contents Competition We believe that our competitive strengths will enable us to compete favorably in the 4G and 5G markets. Companies in this industry primarily compete on the following elements: functionality, form factor and cost; product performance, as measured by network throughput, signal reach, latency and power consumption; track record of providing high-volume deployments in the industry; and systems knowledge. Companies offering wireless modem chipset can be categorized into those primarily focused on wireless modem chipsets for smartphones and those, like us, dedicated to wireless modem chipsets for wireless broadband applications including FWA CPE, mobile routers and modules. Qualcomm and HiSilicon, for example, offer wireless modem chipsets for both smartphones and wireless broadband applications. In the mid and low-end 4G wireless broadband market, there are Qualcomm, the Company, MediaTek, HiSilicon and Sequans among others. However, in the high-speed 4G LTE space, such as 4.75G and 5G wireless broadband market, chipsets are primarily offered by Qualcomm, us and MediaTek, while Samsung LSI concentrates only on modem chipsets for smartphones (most notably the Samsung Galaxy line). HiSilicon has encountered difficulties in its modem business due to political sanctions, and companies like Sequans are limited to lower end IoT chipset developments. We establish high technology barriers by offering highly integrated solutions incorporating RF transceivers, baseband modems, and protocol software. In this field, any issues in either the hardware or software components can impede the progress towards actual commercialization. While some specific components can be sourced through external intellectual property (IP) providers, there are no IP companies that can provide turn-key integrated solutions. Consequently, we believe it is highly unlikely for others to replicate all of these hardware and software components, insulating us from competition by newcomers, startups, and other risk factors. A recent example of the challenges in wireless communication chipsets development, including baseband modem development, can be seen in Apples experience in this space. In their pursuit of 5G modem development, Apple has acquired the entire modem development division of Intel, emphasizing that independent development alone is not feasible. Even after acquiring Intels modem development division, Apple still ostensibly faces obstacles in development and still primarily relies on Qualcomms modem products. Accordingly, due to the combined impact of high barriers to entry, market pushback against large incumbents with excessive market power or political sanctions against certain offshore suppliers, there are few reliable alternatives for 4G/5G modem chipset suppliers and this has created a timely opportunity for us to expand rapidly. This has also provided us with high scarcity value as one of only a handful of remaining companies worldwide with commercially-proven 4G LTE and soon 5G solutions. Customers We maintain close relationships with wireless carriers and with OEMs and ODMs who supply devices to those carriers and their end users. We do not typically sell chipsets directly to wireless carriers. Our sales are conducted on a purchase order basis with OEMs, ODMs, contract manufacturers or system integrators, and distributors who provide certain customer communications, logistics and customer support functions. Sales and Marketing Our sales efforts are focused on securing design wins at leading OEMs and ODMs for wireless broadband devices. We work closely with key players across the 4G/5G wireless broadband industry to understand their requirements and enable them to certify and deploy 4G/5G solutions in high volume. Our sales force is organized regionally to provide account management and customer support functions as close to customer physical locations as practical. We have a direct sales force consisting of five individuals serving GCT OEM and ODM customers in the Asia-Pacific region, including Taiwan, China, Korea and Japan, Europe, North America and South America. In China, Taiwan, Japan and Korea, we supplement our direct sales team with local distributors and sales representatives who handle certain customer communications, logistics and customer support functions. The headquarters and regional sales teams maintain close relationships with customers, identify distributors, and are responsible for the distribution of our products. They also provide education and support for products, including maintenance. These teams handle customer orders, issue quotations, and negotiate prices. When customers intend to use our chips for product development, we ensure that technical support from our in-house experts is readily available to them. To address potential concerns or challenges in the production and sales processes, we connect customers with our internal technical teams to resolve any issues promptly, ensuring that they do not hinder the timely realization of revenue. Additionally, we collect real-time information from customers to facilitate monthly demand forecasts and maximize quarterly sales performance. Our sales force is complemented by a team of field applications engineers (FAEs) that assists customers in solving technical challenges during the design, manufacturing implementation and certification phases of a customers product life cycle. This high-touch approach allows us to facilitate the successful certification and acceptance by the wireless carriers of our customers products, which speeds time-to-market for our customers and reinforces our role as a trusted advisor to our customers. 9 Table of Contents Our sales cycles typically take 12 months or more to complete and our solutions are generally incorporated into our customers products at the design stage. Prior to an end customers selection and purchase of our solutions, our sales force and FAEs provide our end customers with technical assistance in the use of our solutions in their products. Once our solution is designed into a customers product offering, it becomes more difficult for a competitor to sell their semiconductor solutions to that end customer for that particular product offering given the significant cost, time, effort and risk involved in changing suppliers. In addition, we believe that upon achieving a particular design win with a customer, our ability to achieve other design wins with that same customer increases significantly. Our marketing strategy is focused on enabling broad adoption of 4G/5G solutions and communicating our technological advantages to the marketplace with a focus on wireless carriers. This includes building awareness of and preference for our technology at wireless carriers who generate demand for 4G/5G-enabled devices. By working to understand carrier services strategies, device roadmaps and technical requirements, we believes we are better positioned to drive our roadmap to meet these needs, to influence carriers choice of technology suppliers, and to identify manufacturers in the wireless industry who are best prepared to serve the needs of the wireless carrier. Our marketing team is also responsible for product management, strategic planning, product roadmap creation, OEM, ODM and wireless carrier business development and corporate communications. All of these functions are aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of our solutions in response to evolving industry needs and competitive activities, and at articulating the value proposition of our technology throughout the 4G/5G broadband wireless industry. Our sales and marketing organizations work closely together to ensure that evolving industry requirements are reflected in our product plans, and that customers have early access to our roadmaps and can communicate the value of our technology to the wireless carriers. This end-to-end value chain management approach is designed to preserve and grow our market share in the segments we serve. Based upon successful execution of our sales and marketing strategy, we established a long history of successful commercialization as shown below. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, and contractual protections, to protect our core technology and intellectual property. As of December 31, 2024, we hold approximately 86 patent rights in relation to 5G/4G and next-generation wireless communication semiconductor technology. Our patent portfolio consists of modem design-related technologies (47 items, 55%), which includes multi-antenna solution for modular modem design and interference cancellation technology, system impairment (such as IQ mismatch) calibration technology, communication system technology and signal processing modem technology, RF transceiver technologies (22 cases, 26%), frequency synthesis technologies (15 cases, 17%), and other wireless related technologies (2 cases, 2%). Most of the issued patents have been already applied to our commercial products. Among those patents, there are three key aspects: multi-antenna modem solution which provides scalable, module modem core design technology and base line architecture of our 4G and 5G modem; impairment calibration technology to compensate system impairment from direct-conversion RF and analogy parts, such as I/Q imbalance and carrier leakage, calibration technology; and RF transceiver architecture and related circuit technology for CMOS direct-conversion RF technology. In addition to our U.S. patents, patents have been issued in multiple countries where production facilities, product markets, and competitors are located. As of December 31, 2024, we hold 33 US patents, 35 Korean patents, 9 Taiwanese patents, 2 Japanese patents, 2 Chinese patents, and 5 patents issued in other countries. In February 2024, we entered into a Foundry Product Development Agreement and related agreement (the Alpha Agreements) with Alpha Holdings Co., Ltd. (Alpha), pursuant to which Alpha agreed to develop and deliver to us various semiconductor products (produced in the Samsung foundry), including performing certain development activities based on our design data and provide prototypes in the quantity specified by the applicable statement of work. The term of the Alpha Foundry Product Development Agreement is three years from the date of execution and the total development costs that we will pay to Alpha under this Agreement is approximately $7.6 million. Under the Alpha Agreements, Alpha also granted us a license to use certain third-party intellectual property that will enable us to develop and deliver 5G products set forth in such agreements. Furthermore, also in February 2024, we entered into several license and development agreements with third party vendors (the Vendor Agreements), pursuant to which these vendors agreed to supply us a license to use certain intellectual property that will enable us to develop and deliver 5G products under the Alpha Agreements. As disclosed previously, we entered into a research and development agreement (the Samsung Agreement) with Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd (Samsung) in July 2020, pursuant to which Samsung agreed to provide us with certain development support, an intellectual property license, and mass production set up support to enable us to develop and produce 5G chip sets for our customers. The development support, technology licensing and other services provided to us under the Alpha Agreements and Vendor Agreements will complete and/or replace the work originally begun under the Samsung Agreement and will allow us to achieve materially identical results with regards to developing and producing 5G chipsets as the Samsung Agreement. Accordingly, the Samsung Agreement has been terminated. 10 Table of Contents Manufacturing We employ a fabless semiconductor business model and use third-party foundries and assembly and test vendors to manufacture, assemble and test our semiconductor solutions. Our main foundry vendors are Samsung Foundry, and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC). From Samsung Foundry, we currently use 28nm mixed-signal and digital Complementary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (CMOS) production processes for 4G baseband modem, and 8nm technology for 5G baseband modem products. which are under development. The use of these commercially available standard processes enables us to produce our products more cost-effectively and, by migrating to lower process geometries, we expect to achieve advantages in cost, size and power consumption. Particularly, given the fact that foundry companies, which can provide the leading-edge foundry technology for fabless semiconductor companies to access, are very few and practically limited to TSMC and Samsung Foundry in this market, it is very important for us to establish close relationships with such foundry companies. Currently, the Company and Samsung Foundry enjoy a mutually beneficial foundry relationship providing secure access to leading-edge technology and manufacturing capacity as our 5G business ramps. From UMC, we currently use 110 RF production process for 4G RF only, and 40nm RF, mixed-signal and digital CMOS production processes for 4G baseband, 4G RF and 5G RF. From TSMC, we currently use 40nm RF, mixed-signal and digital CMOS production processes for 4G RF only. We use Hana Micron, Stats ChipPAC, and Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., (ASE) for most of our assembly and testing requirements on a purchase order basis. We conduct extensive simulation, practical application and standardized test bed studies to validate and verify our products. We closely monitor the production cycle from wafer to finished goods by reviewing electrical parameters, manufacturing processes and test yield data. We also run routine reliability monitoring programs to ensure long term product reliability. This enables us to operate certain test processes on demand to reduce the time-to-market for our products and to help ensure their quality and reliability. The Company and all of our outsourcing partners have implemented and adhered to the quality management system and environmental management system as required by ISO 9001:2015 across the organization. This has enabled the establishment of a robust quality assurance system for production and products, securing trust from our customers. We are also proactively responding to the strengthening of international environmental regulations and meeting market demands. Human Resources As of December 31, 2024, we had 121 full-time employees, of whom 96 were located in Korea, 18 were in the United States, three were in Taiwan, two were in China and one was in each of Hong Kong and Japan. These employees include 76 in research and development, 18 in sales and marketing, 21 in general and administration and 6 in operations. Management considers labor relations to be positive. We also contract with independent contractors and consultants. Facilities Our principal executive offices are located in San Jose, California, and consist of approximately 5,900 square feet under a lease that expires in October 2026. This facility accommodates our product marketing and finance and administrative activities as well as a small research and development team. We have a 56,500 square-foot facility in Seoul, Korea, which accommodates a research and development center under a lease expiring in December 2025 that renews annually. We have a 100 square-foot facility in Taipei, Taiwan, which houses sales and technical support personnel, under a lease that expires in June 2025. We also have an 850 square-foot facility in Shanghai, China for sales and technical support personnel under a lease that expires in July 2026and a 1,200 square-foot facility in Shenzhen, China, which accommodates sales and technical support personnel, under a lease that expires in May 2025. We do not own any real property. We believe that our leased facilities are adequate to meet our current needs and that additional facilities will be available on suitable, commercially reasonable terms to accommodate any future needs. Legal Proceedings We are not currently a party to any material legal proceedings. From time to time, we may, however, in the ordinary course of business become involved in legal proceedings. Regardless of outcome, litigation could have a material adverse effect on us due to defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources, negative publicity, reputational harm and other factors, and there can be no assurances that favorable outcomes will be obtained. Available Information We file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and related amendments, exhibits and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may access and read our filings without charge through the SECs website at www.sec.gov or through our website at https://investors.gctsemi.com/sec-filings, 11 Table of Contents as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Information contained on, or accessible through, our website shall not be deemed incorporated into and is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 12 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves risks. Before you make a decision to buy our securities, in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed above under Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, you should carefully consider the specific risks set forth herein. If any of these risks actually occur, it may materially harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. As a result, the market price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Additionally, the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any document incorporated by reference herein or therein are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may become material and adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business We may encounter difficulties or challenges in satisfying our obligations under our 5G development agreements and may not be able to meet the anticipated timeline for commencing shipment of 5G chipsets, which may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We have entered into 5G development and collaboration agreements with certain customers and operators, including a development and collaboration agreement with a Tier 1 wireless communications operator. Under these agreements, we have agreed to design, develop and collaborate with each respective customers to test, qualify and commercialize our chipsets and also to help these customers commercialize products that use our chipsets, and these agreements impose various obligations on us to deliver results and meet certain product development milestones. In the event that we complete the performance of our obligations and are able to commercialize and sell our products, we may receive significant revenues and fees as a result of such agreements, including but are not limited to, milestone payments upon the achievement of specified business and development objectives as well as follow-on sales of our chipsets to ODM/OEM suppliers when products (using our chipset) related to these development agreements begins to ramp. In addition, we have previously announced that we expect to commence volume shipment of 5G chipsets in the first half of 2025, which will enable us to generate significant revenue and improve our financial performance. However, we may encounter difficulties and challenges in meeting our obligations under these development agreements and our anticipated timeline for product shipments, such as delays in testing and qualifying our products, technical issues in the development and manufacturing products, lack of resources and funding to support the development efforts, the rise of competitive technologies and products that cause the customers or partners to shift focus and attention elsewhere, lack of funding to support development activities and lack of cooperation by the customers or partners. Any of these factors may adversely affect our ability to monetize these agreements and meet our anticipated product development timeline, including delays in volume shipment of 5G products, which in turn will adversely affect our financial results and results of operations. If the 5th generation (5G) market does not develop or develops more slowly than expected, or if we fail to accurately predict market requirements or market demand for 5G solutions, our financial performance will be adversely affected. We have invested substantial time and resources in developing products that support the 5G wireless communications markets, and we have entered into various agreements and arrangements with potential customers and wireless operators to develop wireless communications products to serve the growing needs of this market. If we fail to accurately predict market requirements or market demand for 5G, or if our solutions are not successfully developed or adopted by our customers, then our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. In addition, if the 5G networks are deployed to a lesser extent or more slowly than we currently anticipate, or if other competing semiconductor solutions achieve greater market acceptance or operators do not migrate to 5G as expected, we may not realize the expected benefits from this investment, which will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products target primarily certain segments in the 5G markets, including fixed wireless access, mobile broadband, and M2M applications, and if these markets do not develop or grow as anticipated, our financial performance will be adversely affected. Our products focus on certain segments of 5G wireless markets, including fixed wireless access (FWA), mobile broadband and machine-to-machine (M2M) applications, and if these markets do not develop or grow as quickly as expected, or if other products or technologies displace or reduce the demands of such market segments, our business operations and financial conditions will be negatively impacted. For example, our products are applicable to the FWA market, which is an innovative use case that employs 4G and 5G radio spectrum to provide wireless broadband connectivity between multiple locations and fixed points, such as a mobile network cell tower and a wireless device in a subscribers home. FWA provides wireless coverage where there is no fixed line or a poor fixed line service, including rural areas, where broadband access is limited. However, the FWA market and related demand may be impacted by various factors, including the growth of fixed line services (especially fiber optic lines), the costs and benefits of deploying FWA infrastructure and regulatory requirements for implementing FWA solutions. Each of these factors may adversely affect our ability to 13 Table of Contents sell products into such market. Similarly, the mobile broadband market can be affected by the demand for mobile devices, such as smartphones, wireless modems, and portable wireless devices, and a slowing demand for these applications may reduce our ability to sell our products. Furthermore, the growth of M2M applications depends on various factors that drive demand, including decisions by businesses, institutions, and regulatory authorities to implement and permit establishment of infrastructures or systems that utilize M2M wireless communications. These and other factors could adversely affect our business operations and financial conditions. We depend on the commercial deployment of 4th generation (4G) long term evolution (LTE) and 5G communications equipment, products and services to grow our business, and our business may be harmed if wireless carriers delay in the adoption of 5G standards, or if they deploy technologies that are not supported by our solutions. We depend upon the continued commercial deployment of 4G and 5G wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our technology. Deployment of new networks by wireless carriers requires significant capital expenditures, well in advance of any revenue from such networks. If the rate of deployment of new networks by wireless carriers is slower than we expect, this will reduce the sales of our products and could cause original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs) to hold excess inventory. This would harm our revenues and financial results. The worldwide commercial deployment and adoption of the narrow band LTE variants, Cat M and Cat NB, are expected to expand further the markets for Internet of Things devices. If deployments of the Cat M or Cat NB standards are delayed or if competing standards for Internet of Things devices become favored by wireless carriers, we may not be able to successfully increase sales of our Cat M and Cat NB products, which would harm our revenues and financial results. If we are unsuccessful in developing and selling new products or in penetrating new markets, our business and operating results would suffer. The markets in which we and our customers compete or plan to compete are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to design, develop, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis. A fundamental shift in technologies in any of our target markets, such as the 5G wireless communications markets, could harm our competitive position within these markets. Our failure to anticipate these shifts, develop new technologies or react to changes in existing technologies could delay our development of new products, which could result in product obsolescence, decreased revenue and loss of design wins. The development of new technologies and products generally requires substantial investment before they become commercially viable, and we have created a roadmap to build and increase our product offerings. Under this roadmap, we intend to continue making substantial investments to develop new technologies and products, and our development efforts may not be successful, and our new technologies and products may not produce meaningful revenue. For example, we currently invest significant resources to develop 5G semiconductor solutions. We may be required, on a case by case basis, to invest additional resources to develop multiple chip solutions in response to changing market demand. If the semiconductor solutions we develop fail to meet market or customer requirements or do not achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to execute our roadmap successfully. In addition, our products have long sales cycles that involve numerous steps, and during this time we may expend substantial financial resources and management time and effort without any assurance that product sales will result. Our sales cycle typically begins when one of our products have been provided to our end customers for evaluation, and thereafter it can take 12 or more months to achieve successful commercialization. The anticipated long sales cycle for our products makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales may occur. The success of our new products will depend on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand, customer and consumer requirements and future technological developments, as well as a variety of specific implementation factors, including: accurate prediction of the size and growth of the 4G and 5G markets; accurate prediction of the growth of the Internet of Things markets and the timing of commercial availability of 4G and 5G networks; accurate prediction of changes in device manufacturer requirements, technology, industry standards or consumer expectations, demands and preferences; timely and efficient completion of product design and transfer to manufacturing, assembly and test, and securing sufficient manufacturing capacity to allow us to continue to timely and efficiently deliver products to our customers; market acceptance, adequate consumer demand and commercial production of the products in which our mobile and wireless broadband semiconductor solutions are incorporated; the quality, performance and reliability of the product as compared to competing products and technologies; effective marketing, sales and service; and the ability to obtain licenses to use third-party technology to support the development of our products. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to introduce new products that meet the demands of our customers or our target markets, or if we fail to penetrate new markets, our revenue will likely decrease over time and our financial condition could suffer. If customers do not design our semiconductor solutions into their product offerings or if our customers product offerings are not commercially successful, we would have difficulty selling our semiconductor solutions and our business would suffer. We sell our semiconductor solutions both directly and indirectly through distributors to OEM/ODM customers. Our OEM/ODM customers incorporate our semiconductor solutions in their products and include our semiconductor solutions in the products they supply to their customers. Our semiconductor solutions are generally incorporated into our customers products at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEM/ODM customers to design our semiconductor solutions into the products they sell. Without these design wins, our business would be materially and adversely affected. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new semiconductor solution without any guarantees that an OEM/ODM customer will select our semiconductor solution for design into its own product. Once an OEM/ODM customer designs a competitors semiconductor into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our semiconductor solutions to that customer because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Furthermore, even if an OEM/ODM customer designs one of our semiconductor solutions into its product offering, we cannot be assured that its product will be commercially successful and that we will receive any revenue from that customer. If our customers products incorporating our semiconductor solutions fail to meet the demands of their customers or otherwise fail to achieve market acceptance, our revenue and business may suffer. In addition, we employ a dual-pronged approach to the market that focuses on both operators and OEM/ODM customers in order to facilitate design wins of our products. Under this approach, we rely on key relationships with wireless operators to help create strong endorsement of our products to OEM/ODM customers. If we are not able to develop and maintain our relationships with wireless operators, our sales of products to OEM/ODM customers would likely be adversely affected. Further, if we are not able to provide wireless operators with access to leading OEMs/ODMs that can deliver our solutions in volume, or if these operators choose not to work with our OEM/ODM customers, it may make it more difficult for us to achieve design wins and cause a delay in the deployment of our products, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may not increase or maintain our revenue or market share. Competition in the wireless semiconductor business continues to increase at a rapid pace as consumers, businesses and governments realize the market potential of wireless products and services. To remain competitive, companies must have highly trained engineering talent and make significant capital investments over long development cycles. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. If we do not compete successfully, our revenue and market share may decline. We face or expect to face competition from established semiconductor companies such as Altair Semiconductor (a Sony Corporation subsidiary), ASR, HiSilicon Technologies (a Huawei subsidiary), Mediatek, Qualcomm Incorporated, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Unisoc (includes Spreadtrum Communications and RDA) and Sequans Communications S.A. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and customer relationships, significant legacy products and technologies, greater resources and brand recognition, more industry influence and a larger customer base than us. This may allow them to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements and to provide backward compatibility in their products as required by some operators. In addition, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. Moreover, our competitors may have been doing business with customers for a longer period of time and have established relationships, which may provide them with information regarding future trends and requirements that may not be available to us. In addition, some of our larger competitors may be able to provide greater incentives to customers through rebates, marketing funds and similar programs. Some of our competitors may also adopt aggressive or predatory pricing policies to offset what we believe are the performance and cost advantages of our solutions. Our competitors with multiple product lines may bundle their products to offer a broader product portfolio or integrate wireless functionality into other products that we do not sell, which may make it difficult for us to gain or maintain market share. Our ability to compete will depend on a number of factors, including: our ability to anticipate market and technology trends and successfully develop products that meet market needs; our success in identifying and penetrating new markets, applications and customers; our ability to accurately understand the price points and performance metrics of competing products in the marketplace; our products performance and cost-effectiveness relative to that of competitors products; our ability to develop and maintain relationships with wireless operators, base station suppliers and OEM/ODM customers; our ability to expand international operations in a timely and cost-efficient manner; 15 Table of Contents our ability to secure sufficient manufacturing capacity and deliver products in large volume on a timely basis at competitive prices; our ability to participate in or influence the process for setting wireless industry standards; our ability to conform to industry standards on a timely basis, while developing new and proprietary technologies to offer products and features previously not available in the 4G and 5G markets; our ability to recruit design and application engineers with expertise in wireless broadband communications technologies and sales and marketing personnel; and our ability to obtain third-party licenses for supporting technologies to develop new products. Our potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, acquire companies that provide similar products to ours, or consolidate with other competitors. As a result, new competitors or alliances between our competitors may emerge that could acquire significant market share. In addition, future development efforts by our competitors could render our products obsolete. Any of these factors, alone or in combination with others, could harm our business and result in a loss of market share, an increase in pricing pressure or inability to achieve and sustain profitability. If we are unable to effectively manage our business through periods of economic or market slow-down and any subsequent future growth, we may not be able to execute our business plan and our operating results could suffer. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully manage our business through periods of economic or market slow-down, and periods of subsequent expansion and growth. To manage our growth successfully, we believe we must, among other things, effectively: recruit, hire, train and manage additional qualified engineers for our research and development activities, especially in the positions of design engineering, product and test engineering, and applications engineering; add additional sales personnel and expand sales offices; add additional finance and information systems personnel; implement and improve our administrative, financial and operational systems, procedures and controls; and enhance our information technology support for enterprise resource planning and design engineering by adapting and expanding our systems and tool capabilities, and properly training new hires as to their use. Furthermore, to remain competitive and manage future expansion and growth, we must carry out extensive research and development, which requires significant capital investment. New competitors, technological advances in the semiconductor industry or by competitors, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors may require us to invest significantly greater resources than we anticipate. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. Additionally, our periodic research and development expenses may be independent of our level of revenue, which could negatively impact our financial results. Finally, there can be no guarantee that our research and development investments will result in products that create additional revenue. During periods of economic or market slow-down, we must also effectively manage our expenses to preserve our ability to carry out such research and development. We are likely to incur product and market development costs earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments, if any, may be lower, may develop more slowly than we expect, or may not materialize at all, which could harm our operating results. For the last several years, we have dedicated a large portion of our operating expenses to our development of 5G products, which we do not expect will result in significant product revenues before the second half of 2025. If we are unable to manage our business during both periods of economic or market slow-down and periods of growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities or develop new products, and we may fail to satisfy customer requirements, maintain product quality, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm our operating results. We rely on a small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue, and the loss of, or a reduction in, orders from these customers could result in a substantial decline in our revenue. We sell our products to OEM/ODM customers either directly or indirectly through distributors. We depend on a small number of customers for a large percentage of our annual revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2024, four customers accounted for 74% of our total revenues and for year ended December 31, 2023, two customers accounted for 38% of our total revenues. We expect that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Additionally, consolidation among OEMs in some of our markets could result in an increased concentration in our 16 Table of Contents sources of revenue. It is possible that any of our major customers could terminate its purchasing arrangements with us or significantly reduce or delay the amount of our products that it orders, purchase products from our competitors or develop its own products internally. The loss of, or a reduction in, orders from any major customer could cause a decline in revenue and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production, and if we fail to forecast demand for our products accurately, we may incur product shortages, delays in product shipments or excess or insufficient product inventory, which could harm our business. We do not have firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, and in most cases, our customers are not contractually committed to buy any quantity of products from us beyond firm purchase orders. Additionally, customers may cancel, change or delay purchase orders already in place under certain conditions. Because production lead times often exceed the amount of time required to fulfill orders, we often must manufacture in advance of orders, relying on an imperfect demand forecast to project volumes and product mix. Our ability to accurately forecast demand can be harmed by a number of factors, including inaccurate forecasting by our customers, changes in market conditions, changes in our product order mix and demand for our customers products. Even after an order is received, our customers may cancel these orders or request a decrease in production quantities if certain lead times are respected. Any such cancellation or decrease subjects us to a number of risks, most notably, that our projected sales will not materialize on schedule or at all, leading to unanticipated revenue shortfalls and excess or obsolete inventory, which we may be unable to sell to other customers. Alternatively, if we are unable to project customer requirements accurately, we may not manufacture enough semiconductor solutions, which could lead to delays in product shipments and lost sales opportunities in the near term, as well as force our customers to identify alternative sources, which could affect our ongoing relationships with these customers. We have in the past had customers significantly increase their requested production quantities with little or no advance notice. If we do not fulfill customer demands in a timely manner, our customers may cancel their orders, and we may be subject to customer claims for cost of replacement. Underestimating or overestimating demand would lead to insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory and could harm our operating results, cash flow and financial condition, as well as our relationships with our customers and our reputation in the marketplace. We may fail to forecast customer demand for our products accurately, which may result in product shortages, delays in product shipments or excess or insufficient product inventory. All of our sales are made on a purchase order basis which permit our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty. Because production lead times often exceed the amount of time required to fulfill orders, we often must manufacture in advance of orders, relying on a demand forecast to project volumes and product mix. Our ability to accurately forecast demand can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including inaccurate forecasting by our customers, changes in market conditions, adverse changes in our product order mix and demand for our customers products. Even after an order is received, our customers may cancel or reduce these orders, or require us to reduce the prices of our product. In addition, a customer may delay an order for our products even after it has been placed. These cancellations, reductions, or price changes may subject us to a number of risks, including the following: our projected sales will not materialize on schedule or at all; unanticipated reduction in revenue and net profit; and increase in excess or obsolete inventory which we may be unable to sell to other customers. Alternatively, if we are unable to project customer requirements accurately, we may not manufacture sufficient semiconductor solutions, which could lead to delays in product shipments and lost sales opportunities in the near term, as well as force our customers to identify alternative sources, which could affect our ongoing relationships with these customers. In the past, we have experienced customers significantly increasing their orders with little or no advance notice. If we do not fulfill customer demands in a timely manner, our customers may cancel their orders, or may decide not to order from us in the future. In addition, we may be subject to customer claims for cost of replacement. Either underestimating or overestimating demand could lead to insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, as well as our customer relationships. We do not have long-term capacity agreements with our foundries and they may not allocate sufficient capacity to allow us to meet future demands for our products, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to secure capacity agreements in the future. We currently do not have long-term capacity agreements with our main foundries, UMC and Samsung, primarily because historically we have placed only a limited quantity of orders. Accordingly, our foundries are not obligated to perform services or supply wafers to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Foundry capacity allocated to us has in the past been reduced due to strong demand by other foundry customers. The ability of our foundry vendors to provide us with semiconductor products is limited by available capacity and existing obligations. Because none of our third-party foundries has provided contractual assurances to us that ensure adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future 17 Table of Contents demand for our products, foundry capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. The foundries may allocate capacity to the production of other companies products while reducing deliveries to us on short or without notice. In particular, our foundries may reallocate capacity to other customers that are larger and better financed than us or that have long-term agreements with our foundry during a period of high demand. In addition, we expect that we may need to secure additional capacity from our foundries in the immediate future to support increasing demand for our products, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to secure this increased capacity to meet our needs. As we continue to grow our business, we intend to negotiate long-term supply agreements with our main foundries in order to secure capacity commitment. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate these agreements successfully or in a timely fashion, or that any agreements we enter into will provide us with favorable pricing or sufficient capacity to meet our customer demand. Our failure to secure suitable long-term capacity agreements with our foundries may limit our ability to expand our market and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any increase in the manufacturing cost of our products could reduce our gross margins and operating profit. The semiconductor business experiences ongoing competitive pricing pressure from customers and competitors. Accordingly, any increase in the cost of our products, whether by adverse changes in purchase price or adverse manufacturing cost, will reduce our gross margins and operating profit. In general, we do not have long-term supply agreements with our foundry, test, assembly and other vendors other than a framework agreement with UMC. As a result, we typically negotiate pricing on a purchase order basis. Therefore, we may not be able to obtain price reductions or anticipate or prevent future price increases from our suppliers. There is no assurance that our manufacturing suppliers will be able to deliver raw materials, goods and services to us at reasonable prices and the required volume. These and other related factors could impair our ability to meet our customers needs and have an adverse effect on our operating results. If our foundry vendors do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our reputation, customer relationships and financial performance could be harmed. The fabrication of chipsets is a complex and technically demanding process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. Our foundry vendor could, from time to time, experience manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundry vendor could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Poor yields from our foundry vendor, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial results and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. Our semiconductor solutions are manufactured at a limited number of locations. If we experience manufacturing problems at a particular location, we would be required to transfer manufacturing to a backup location or supplier. Converting or transferring manufacturing from a primary location or supplier to a backup fabrication facility could be expensive and may not be completed for an extended period of time. During such a transition, we would be required to meet customer demand from our then-existing inventory, as well as any partially finished goods that can be modified to the required product specifications. We do not seek to maintain sufficient inventory to address a lengthy transition period because we believe it is not economical to keep more than minimal inventory on hand. As a result, we may not be able to meet customer needs during a transition, which could delay shipments, cause a production delay or stoppage for our customers, result in a decline in our sales and damage our customer relationships. In addition, a significant portion of our sales are to customers that practice just-in-time order management from their suppliers which gives us a very limited amount of time to process and complete these orders. As a result, delays in our production or shipping by the parties to whom we outsource these functions could reduce our sales, damage our customer relationships and our reputation in the marketplace, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to new wafer fabrication process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries or increased costs. We currently use standard 110-nanometer, 40-nanometer and 28-nanometer standard RF, mixed-signal and digital CMOS production processes. We are also developing our next generation of products using 8-nanometer process technology. To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to progressively smaller geometries and to achieve higher levels of design integration. These ongoing efforts require us from time to time to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products, which in turn may result in delays in product deliveries. We periodically evaluate the benefits of migrating to new process technologies to reduce cost and improve performance. We may face difficulties, delays and increased expenses as we transition our products to new processes and potentially to new foundries. We depend on our relationships with our existing wafer foundries to transition to new processes successfully. There is no assurance that these foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our relationship with them or develop relationships with new foundries. In addition, as new processes 18 Table of Contents become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as end customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis. If we or our wafer foundries experience significant delays in transitioning to smaller geometries or fail to efficiently implement transitions and new processes, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased costs, any or all of which could harm our relationships with our customers, and our business, financial condition and operating results. The complexity of our semiconductor solutions could result in unforeseen delays or expenses from undetected defects, errors or bugs in hardware or software, which could reduce the market acceptance for our new semiconductor solutions. Highly complex semiconductor solutions, such as ours, frequently contain defects, errors and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. We have in the past and may in the future experience these defects, errors and bugs. If any of our semiconductor solutions have reliability, quality, or compatibility problems, we may not be able to successfully correct these problems in a timely manner or at all. In addition, if any of our proprietary features contain defects, errors or bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released, we may be unable to correct these problems. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our semiconductor solutions, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers, as well as our financial results. In addition, these defects, errors or bugs could interrupt or delay sales to our customers. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new semiconductor solution, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recalls, repairs or replacement costs. These problems may also result in claims against us by our customers or others. Our business may be impacted by political events, war, terrorism, business interruptions and other geopolitical events and uncertainties beyond our control, including the Russian-Ukraine and conflicts in the Middle East. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties and other business interruptions could cause damage to, disrupt or cancel sales of our products and services on a global or regional basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or vendors with which we do business. Such events could also make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products and services to our customers, or to advance our product development efforts. In addition, territorial invasions can lead to cybersecurity attacks on technology companies, such as ours, located far outside of the conflict zone. In the event of prolonged business interruptions due to geopolitical events, we could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time and experience significant expenditures in order to resume our business operations. We do not and cannot know if the current uncertainties in these geopolitical areas, which are unfolding in real-time, may escalate and result in broad economic and security conditions, which could result in material implications for our business. In addition, our insurance policies typically contain a war exclusion of some description and we do not know how our insurers are likely to respond in the event of a loss alleged to have been caused by geopolitical uncertainties. Risks Related to our Finances We have a history of losses, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future, on a quarterly or annual basis. We began operations in 1998 and have incurred losses on an annual basis since inception. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant operating losses. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had a net loss of $12.4 million and $22.5 million, respectively, and used cash in operating activities of $31.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively. We had short-term debt in the amount of $37.6 million and $72.3 million, including convertible promissory notes and borrowings as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $562.0 million and $549.7 million, respectively and negative working capital of approximately $43.3 million and $101.8 million. We expect to incur significant expenses related to the research and development of our products and expansion of our business. Furthermore, the rapidly evolving wireless communications markets in which we sell our products, as well as other factors, make it difficult for us to forecast quarterly and annual revenue accurately. As a result, we could experience cash flow management problems, unexpected fluctuations in our results of operations and other difficulties, any of which would make it difficult for us to meet our debt obligations and achieve and maintain profitability. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary if we are unable to obtain adequate financing in the future. Accordingly, if we do not generate sufficient level of revenue or become profitable, we will be required to seek other sources of funding, such as issuance of equity or debt securities to raise capital. Any such financings may not be accessible on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure to raise additional capital or otherwise obtain funding for our operation will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. In addition, given our current available cash and the need to secure additional funding, the report of our independent registered accounting firm included in this Form 10-K contains a paragraph expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, our stockholders may lose some or all of their investment in the Company. 19 Table of Contents We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could have a material effect on our business and financial condition if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or unable to raise capital on favorable terms. Our business requires significant capital investment to carry out extensive research and development in order to remain competitive. At the same time, demand for our products is highly variable and there have been downturns. If our cash on hand, net proceeds from financing activities and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to fund our operations and capital requirements, we may be required to limit our growth, or enter into financing arrangements at unfavorable terms, any of which could harm our business and financial condition. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we expand our operations and product development activities. We may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms, if at all, which would harm our ability to fund our operations and may force us to cease operation. We regularly consider fund raising opportunities and may decide, from time to time, to raise capital based on various factors, including market conditions and our plans of operation. We may experience difficulties in accessing the capital markets due to external factors beyond our control, such as volatility in the equity markets, the trading price and volume of our stock and general economic and market conditions both in the United States and abroad. In addition, we rely substantially on investors, banks, lenders and partners in South Korea to provide loans and fundings to our operations, and our ability to secure such funding may be affected by the economic, banking and capital market conditions and trends in South Korea. While we currently have an equity line of credit (ELOC) that allows us to issue and sell up to $50 million of shares of common stock, our ability to raise capital under the ELOC has been limited due to the lower trading volume and volatility of trading price of our common stock. Additionally, we anticipate that strategic alliances and partnerships will be an important source of revenue and possible financing for us going forward. If we are unable to develop alliances with or otherwise attract investment from strategic partners, or if strategic partners are not willing to enter into transactions with us on favorable terms, our business and financial condition could be harmed. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our operations, including our ability to perform our obligations and fund working capital. As of December 31, 2024, we have outstanding convertible promissory notes and borrowings with a total principal amount of $42.6 million, of which $37.6 million is contractually due within 12 months from the reporting date. We may also incur substantial additional indebtedness. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: we may be unsuccessful in refinancing our existing indebtedness on a long-term basis; we could have difficulty satisfying our debt obligations, and if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of default could result; we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the cash flow available to fund 5G and other product development, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; in order to manage our debt and cash flows, we may increase our short-term indebtedness and decrease our long-term indebtedness which may not achieve the desired results; covenants relating to our indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities, which may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt; and we may have difficulty repaying or refinancing our obligations under our senior credit facilities on their respective maturity dates. If any of these consequences occur, our financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. This, in turn, could negatively affect the market price of our Common Stock, and we may need to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds that may be realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, while we were able to negotiate with our lenders of commercial loans to extend the maturity dates or modify payment schedules, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in negotiating such terms in the future, and failure to do so may result in defaults under the loans, which will have an adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights adequately could impair our ability to compete effectively or to defend ourselves from litigation. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and know-how. As of December 31, 2024, we hold 33 US patents, 35 Korean patents, 9 Taiwanese patents, 2 Japanese patents, 2 Chinese patents, and 5 patents issued in other countries. Even if the pending patent applications are granted, the rights granted to us may not be meaningful or provide us with any commercial advantage. For example, these patents could be opposed, contested, circumvented or designed around by our competitors or be declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. The failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies. Our foreign patent protection is generally not as comprehensive as our U.S. patent protection and may not protect our intellectual property in some countries where our products are sold or may be sold in the future. Many U.S.-based companies have encountered substantial intellectual property infringement in foreign countries, including countries where we sell products. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. The legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and evolving. There is no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar or superior technologies, products or services, or that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others. Unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so, which could harm our business. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Although we are not aware of any unauthorized use of our intellectual property in the past, it is possible that unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have occurred or may occur without our knowledge. There is no assurance that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could reduce the value of our technology in licensing arrangements or in cross-licensing negotiations. We may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time-consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or if third parties independently develop or gain access to our or similar technologies, our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position could be harmed. The enforcement and protection of our intellectual property may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents, and could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property and by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. We rely primarily on patent, trademark, trade secret and similar laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, international treaties and other methods, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information. Enforcing our intellectual property against misappropriation, infringement or unauthorized use may be costly, difficult and time consuming. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken and will take in the future will prevent the misappropriation, infringement or unauthorized use of our products, technologies or intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our rights as fully or as readily as United States laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, strategic partners and any other third party we do business with, where our relationship with such parties may entail disclosure of our confidential information. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and may improperly use our proprietary information for the benefit of or in connection with their new employer. We may be subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of third-party intellectual property rights, and any such infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Our competitors and other third parties hold numerous patents related to technology used in our industry, and may hold or obtain patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights that could prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, develop, sell or market our products and services, which could make it more difficult for us to operate our business. From time to time we may be subject to claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of patents or other intellectual property rights and related litigation. Regardless of their merit, responding to such claims can be time consuming, can divert managements attention and resources, and may cause us to incur significant expenses in litigation or settlement, and we cannot be certain that we would be successful in defending against any such claims in litigation or other proceedings. If we do not successfully defend or settle an intellectual property 21 Table of Contents claim, we could be liable for significant monetary damages and could be prohibited from continuing to use certain technology, business methods, content or brands, and from making, selling or incorporating certain components or intellectual property into the products and services we offer. As a result, we could be forced to redesign our products and services, and/or to establish and maintain alternative branding for our products and services. To avoid litigation or being prohibited from marketing or selling the relevant products or services, we could seek a license from the applicable third party, which could require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees, or other payments, increasing our operating expenses. If a license is not available at all or not available on reasonable terms, we may be required to develop or license a non-violating alternative, either of which could be infeasible or require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop a non-violating alternative, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of our offerings and may be unable to effectively compete. Moreover, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of shares of our common stock (the Common Stock). Any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. Finally, any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs, negative publicity and diversion of resources and management attention, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could also include our industry partners and customers, which could trigger any indemnification obligations to them and result in substantial expense to us. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our licensees could also become the target of litigation, and certain customers have received notices of written offers from our competitors and others claiming to have patent rights in certain technology and inviting our customers to license this technology. Because we may indemnify our licensees and customers for intellectual property claims made against them for products incorporating our technology, any litigation could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our license agreements, which could result in substantial payments and expenses by us. In addition to the time and expense required for us to supply support or indemnification to our licensees and customers, any such litigation could severely disrupt or shut down the business of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause the sale of our proprietary technologies and products to decrease. We or our customers may be required to obtain licenses for certain so-called standard essential patents in order to comply with applicable standards, which could require us to pay additional royalties on certain of our products. If we or our customers are unable to obtain such licenses, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be harmed. We or our customers may be required to obtain licenses for third-party intellectual property. In particular, we may be required to obtain licenses to certain third-party patents, so-called standard essential patents, that claim features or functions that are incorporated into applicable industry standards and that we are required to provide in order to comply with the standard. If we need to license any third-party intellectual property, standard essential patents or other technology, we could be required to pay royalties on certain of our products. In addition, while the industry standards bodies and antitrust laws in certain countries may require participating companies to license their standard essential patents on fair, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory terms, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Although we have implemented a dedicated standard essential patents licensing-in reference policy, our inability to obtain required third-party intellectual property licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. If our customers are required to obtain such licenses, there can be no assurances that their businesses will not be adversely affected. In addition, if our competitors have significant numbers of essential patents and/or patent license rights, they could be at an advantage in negotiating with our customers or potential customers, which could influence our ability to win new business or could result in downward pressure on our average selling prices. Our failure to comply with obligations under open source licenses could require us to release our source code to the public or cease distribution of our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the software used with our products, as well as that of some of our customers, may be derived from so-called open source software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. This open source software is often made available to us under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, which impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to make available derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. In addition, there is little or no legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain of these open source licenses, including the determination of which works are subject to the terms of such licenses. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we have not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain additional patents and the legal protection afforded by any additional patents may not adequately cover the full scope of our business or permit us to gain or keep competitive advantage. Our ability to obtain additional patents is uncertain and the legal protection afforded by these patents may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep competitive advantage. In addition, the specific content required of patents and patent applications that are necessary to support and interpret patent claims can be uncertain due to the complex nature of the relevant legal, scientific and factual issues. Changes in either patent laws or interpretations of patent laws in the United States or elsewhere may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Even if patents are issued regarding our products and processes, our competitors may challenge the validity of those patents. We may not be able to obtain reimbursements from our customers for costs related to research and development activities. In connection with product development agreements with certain customers, we received non-recurring engineering (NRE) fees to reimburse costs incurred in the development and design of our products. These arrangements are motivated primarily by the opportunity to engage customers and at the same time, jointly progress our own research and development activities with the associated development compensation. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we recognized $4.4 million and $5.1 million, respectively, related to these NRE contracts and as a service revenue. Generally, these NRE reimbursements are paid upon the completion of specified milestones in our product development contracts. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to satisfy these milestones, and failure to do so may delay or prevent us from receiving NRE fees. We rely upon third parties for supporting technology that is integrated into some of our products, and if we are unable to continue to use this technology and future technology, our ability to sell technologically advanced products would be limited. We rely on third parties for supporting technology that is integrated into some of our products. If we are unable to continue to use or license on reasonable terms third-party technologies used in some of our products, we may not be able to secure alternatives on a timely basis and our business could be harmed. Even if we are able to secure an alternative license to replace the loss of an existing technology, our transition to this new technology may require additional time and expenses. Any delay or incurrence of additional costs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock and Our Corporate Structure The market price of our Common Stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Prior to our Business Combination, our Common Stock was not traded in a public market. We cannot predict the extent to which a trading market will develop or how liquid that market might become. The trading price of our Common Stock can be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: changes in financial estimates, including our ability to meet our future revenue and operating profit or loss projections; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; fluctuations in our operating results or those of our customers, operators or other semiconductor companies; commercial deployment and upgrade of 4G and 5G wireless networks; economic developments in the semiconductor or mobile and wireless industries as a whole; general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets; announcements by us or our customers or competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts or orders, commercial relationships or capital commitments; announcements regarding intellectual property litigation involving us or our competitors; changes in the financial estimates of our competitors; our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; changes in the pricing and costs of manufacturing; commencement of or our involvement in litigation; any major change in our board of directors (the Board) or management; political or social conditions in the markets where we sell our products; and changes in governmental regulations. 23 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for semiconductor and other technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may cause the market price of our Common Stock to decrease, regardless of our actual operating performance. These trading price fluctuations may also make it more difficult for us to use our Common Stock as a means to make acquisitions or to use options to purchase or to attract and retain employees. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources for our business operations. If securities analysts or industry analysts downgrade our Common Stock, publish negative research or reports, or do not publish reports about our business, our Common Stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Common Stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business and our market. If one or more analysts adversely change their recommendation regarding our Common Stock or our competitors stock, our stock price could decline. If one or more analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our Common Stock price or trading volume to decline. Delaware law, our Charter and Bylaws contain provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the Charter) and the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (the Bylaws) may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: the right of our Board to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our Board or due to the resignation or departure of an existing Board member; the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the requirement for the advance notice of nominations for election to our Board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders meeting; the ability of our Board to alter our Bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; the ability of our Board to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock (Preferred Stock) with terms set by our Board, which rights could be senior to those of our Common Stock; the elimination of the rights of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; and the required approval of at least a majority of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors without cause. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL). These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, particularly those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our Charter, our Bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our Common Stock in the future and could result in our market price being lower than it would without these provisions. We do not intend to pay dividends on our Common Stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our Common Stock. We do not intend to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your Common Stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our Common Stock will depend upon any future appreciation in our value. There is no guarantee that shares of our Common Stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. Our major shareholder exerts significant influence over our business and affairs. One of our major shareholders of Anapass, Inc. (Anapass) beneficially owns approximately 18.5% of issued and outstanding our Common Stock. Mr. Kyeongho Lee, Chairman of our Board and co-founder of GCT, is also the chairman of the Board of Anapass. In addition, both Anapass and Mr. Lee are lenders under various loans and notes issued by us. Anapasss significant ownership will, for the foreseeable future, enable it to control and influence our management and affairs, and most matters requiring stockholder approval, 24 Table of Contents including the election of directors, financing activities, a merger or sale of our assets and other significant corporate transactions. Anapass and Mr. Lee may, at their discretion, elect to exercise these or similar rights at any time. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, due to Mr. Lees controlling position with respect to both Anapass and us, which may result in a potential conflict of interest or appearance of conflict of interest and may adversely affect the rights of a minority of our stockholders. Future sales of shares of Common Stock may depress our stock price. Future sales of shares of Common Stock in the public market, including the resale of shares pursuant to the registration statement of which this prospectus forms a part or pursuant to Rule 144, could depress our stock price. See Sales of a substantial number of shares of Common Stock in the public market pursuant to the registration statement of which this prospectus forms a part could reduce the market price of our Common Stock. Subject to certain exceptions, the Registration Rights Agreement executed at the time of the Closing provides for certain restrictions on transfer with respect to our securities. Such restrictions began upon Closing and end the earliest of (A) 180 days after the Closing and (B) the first date on which (x) the closing price of Common Stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 150 days after the Closing or (y) we complete a liquidation, merger, capital stock exchange, reorganization or other similar transaction that results in our stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of Common Stock for cash, securities, or other property. In connection with the Closing, the Company and certain stockholders of GCT, including its directors, officers, affiliates and holders of more than 5% of outstanding shares of GCT common stock as of the Closing, entered into the Lock-Up Agreement, pursuant to which such stockholders agreed to not effect any sale or other transfer of Common Stock, subject to certain customary exceptions set forth in the Lock-Up Agreement, during the period commencing at the Closing and ending on the earlier of (i) one year following the Closing, (ii) such date as the Company completes a liquidation, merger, share exchange, reorganization or other similar transaction that results in all of the Companys stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of Common Stock for cash, securities or other property or (iii) the date on which the last sale price of Common Stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share (as adjusted for share splits, share consolidations, share capitalizations, rights issuances, subdivisions, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30 trading day period commencing at least 150 days after the Closing. However, equityholders not subject to a lock-up and, following the expiration of the applicable lock-up periods, such equityholders referred to above will not be restricted from selling shares of our Common Stock held by them, other than by applicable securities laws, and sales could occur at any time and such sales could depress the stock price. Risks Relating to Our Industry and Regulatory Environment The semiconductor and communications industries are cyclical and have historically experienced significant fluctuations with prolonged downturns, which could impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The semiconductor industry has historically exhibited a pattern of cyclicality, which at various times has included significant downturns in customer demand. Cyclical downturns can result in substantial declines in semiconductor demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Such downturns result from a variety of market forces including constant and rapid technological change, quick product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Recently, downturns in the semiconductor industry have been attributed to a variety of factors including the COVID-19 pandemic, ongoing trade disputes between the United States and China, weakness in demand and pricing for semiconductors across applications, and excess inventory. In addition, since the end of 2022, the semiconductor industry has experienced a downturn due to inventory corrections and reduced consumer demands. These downturns have directly impacted our business, suppliers, distributors and end customers. Because a significant portion of our expenses are fixed in the near term or is incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to reduce our expenses rapidly enough to offset any unanticipated shortfall in revenue. If this situation were to occur, it could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and financial condition. Furthermore, the semiconductor industry has periodically experienced increased demand and production constraints. If this happens in the future, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of our products to meet the increased demand. We may also have difficulty in obtaining sufficient wafer, assembly and test resources from our subcontract manufacturers. Any factor adversely affecting the semiconductor industry in general, or the particular segments of the industry that our products target, may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and could negatively impact our operating results. The wireless communications industry has, in the past, experienced pronounced downturns, and these cycles may continue in the future. A future decline in global economic conditions could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers or other members of the wireless industry, such as 25 Table of Contents wireless network operators. Inflation, deflation and economic recessions that adversely affect the global economy and capital markets also adversely affect our customers and end consumers. For example, our customers ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, obtain financing and upgrade wireless networks could be adversely affected, which may lead to many networking equipment providers slowing their research and development activities, canceling or delaying new product development, reducing their inventories and taking a cautious approach to acquiring our products, which would have a significant negative impact on our business. If this situation were to occur, it could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and financial condition. In the future, any of these trends may also cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from year to year, which may increase the volatility of the price of our Common Stock. The wireless and consumer electronics industry is characterized by short product cycles, significant fluctuations in supply and demand, and rapidly changing technologies, and we may not be able to meet these challenges successfully or consistently. A substantial portion of our products is incorporated into wireless and consumer electronics industry. The wireless and consumer electronics industry into which we sell our products is characterized by high growth, short product cycles, significant fluctuations in supply and demand, and rapidly changing technologies. In order to remain competitive, wireless and consumer electronics manufacturers must continuously develop new technologies, deliver new products and otherwise adjust their business strategies to meet these challenges. We may not be able to implement the necessary measures timely, or if at all, to mitigate these industry-wide forces. For example, We may not be able to timely reduce our expenses to offset the impact of lower revenue in a cyclical downturn due to a reduction in demand, or it may be difficult for us to quickly shift the direction of our research and development efforts in response to new market requirements. Our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in current laws or the imposition of new laws regulating the wireless networks and radio frequency emission could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business. Wireless networks can only operate in the frequency bands, or spectrum, allowed by regulators and in accordance with rules governing how the spectrum can be used. The Federal Communications Commission, or the FCC, in the United States, as well as regulators in foreign countries, have broad jurisdiction over the allocation of frequency bands for wireless networks. We therefore rely on the FCC and international regulators to provide sufficient spectrum and usage rules. For example, countries such as China, Taiwan, Japan, or Korea heavily regulate all aspects of their wireless communication industries and may restrict spectrum allocation or usage. If further restrictions were to be imposed over the frequency range where our semiconductor solutions are designed to operate, We may have difficulty in selling our products in those regions. In addition, our semiconductor solutions operate in the 2 and 3 gigahertz, or GHz, band, which in some countries is also used by government and commercial services such as military and commercial aviation. The FCC and European regulators have traditionally protected government uses of the 2 and 3 GHz bands by setting power limits and indoor and outdoor designation and requiring that wireless local area networking devices not interfere with other users of the band such as government and civilian satellite services. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere regarding the allocation and usage of the 2 and 3 GHz band on us, our customers or the industries in which we operate may materially and adversely impact the sale of our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The large amount of capital required to obtain radio frequency licenses, deploy and expand wireless networks and obtain new subscribers could slow the growth of the wireless communications industry and adversely affect our business. Our growth is dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services that utilize our technology. In order to provide wireless communications services, wireless operators must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the United States and other countries throughout the world, and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. Industry growth may be affected by the amount of capital required to obtain licenses to use new frequencies, deploy wireless networks to offer voice and data services, expand wireless networks to grow voice and data services and obtain new subscribers. The significant cost of licenses, wireless networks and subscriber additions may slow the growth of the industry if wireless operators are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement or expand 4G/5G wireless networks. Our growth could be adversely affected if this occurs. We may experience a decrease in market demand due to uncertain economic conditions in the United States and in international markets, which has been further exacerbated by the concerns of terrorism, war and social and political instability. Economic growth in the United States and international markets has slowed significantly. The uncertainty in the economic environment may contribute to the volatility in the United States stock markets, which has experienced significant fluctuations recently. In addition, terrorist attacks in the United States and turmoil in the Middle East, including the recent war between Israel and Hamas, have increased the uncertainty in the United States economy and may contribute to a decline in economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. Terrorist acts and similar events, or war in general, could contribute further to a slowdown of the market demand for goods and services, including demand for our products. If the economy declines as a result of the recent economic, political and social turmoil, including any potential default or downgrade in the rating of United States debt obligations, or if there are further terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, we may experience decreases in the demand for our products and services, which may harm our operating results. 26 Table of Contents Rapidly changing standards could make our semiconductor solutions obsolete, which would cause our operating results to suffer. We design our semiconductor solutions to conform to standards set by industry standard bodies, including the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., or IEEE, and the 3rd Generation Partnership Project, or 3GPP. We also depend on industry groups, such as the WiMAX Forum, to certify and maintain certification of our semiconductor solutions. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our semiconductor solutions are not compatible, or such industry groups fail to adopt standards with which our semiconductor solutions are compatible, our existing semiconductor solutions would become less desirable to our customers and our sales would suffer. The emergence of markets for our products is affected by a variety of factors beyond our control. In particular, our semiconductor solutions are designed to conform to current specific industry standards. Competing standards may emerge that are preferred by our customers, which could also reduce our sales and require us to make significant expenditures to develop new semiconductor solutions. Governments and foreign regulators may adopt standards with which our semiconductor solutions are not compatible, favor alternative technologies or adopt stringent regulations that would impair or make commercially unviable the deployment of our semiconductor solutions. In addition, products that implement existing standards may be challenged as infringing upon third-party intellectual property rights and may become obsolete. Changes in, and the regulatory implementation of, tariffs or other government trade policies or political conditions could reduce demand for our products, limit our ability to sell our products to certain customers or our ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Changes in government trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs and export restrictions, have limited and could continue to limit our ability to sell or provide our products and other items to certain customers and suppliers, which may materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The U.S. or foreign governments have taken and may continue to take administrative, legislative or regulatory action that could materially interfere with our ability to export, reexport, import and transfer products and other items to certain countries, particularly China. For example, the imposition of tariffs has resulted in higher duties owed on certain products that are imported from China to the United States. Furthermore, we have experienced and may continue to experience restrictions on our ability to export, reexport, and transfer our products and other items to certain foreign customers and suppliers where exports, reexports, or transfers of products require export licenses or are prohibited by government action. The U.S. government has in the past imposed export restrictions that effectively banned American companies from exporting, reexporting, and transferring products to certain of our customers, and imposed significant restrictions on the ability to obtain export licenses for our products. Such restrictions could have a continuing negative impact on our future revenue and results of operations. In addition, our customers or suppliers affected by U.S. government sanctions or threats of sanctions may respond by developing their own solutions to replace our products or by adopting our foreign competitors solutions and products. Importantly, governments like China have the ability to impose countermeasures in reaction to increasing U.S. government sanctions and restrictions imposed on their companies which may impact our operations and future revenue as the compliance landscape becomes more challenging. We cannot predict what further actions may ultimately be taken with respect to tariffs, export restrictions or other trade measures between the U.S. and China or other countries, what products or entities may be subject to such actions, or what actions may be taken by other countries in response. The loss of foreign customers or suppliers or the imposition of restrictions on our ability to sell or transfer products to such customers or suppliers as a result of tariffs, export restrictions or other U.S. regulatory actions could materially adversely affect our sales, business and results of operations. Legislative or regulatory initiatives related to climate change could have a material adverse effect on our business. Greenhouse gases may have an adverse effect on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. Such events could have a negative effect on our business. Concern over climate change may result in new or additional legislative and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment, which could result in future tax, transportation, and utility increases and could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business. There is also increased focus, including by investors, customers, and other stakeholders, on these and other sustainability matters, including the use of plastic, energy, waste, and worker safety. Our reputation could be damaged if we do not, or is perceived we do not, act responsibly with respect to sustainability matters, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Our ability to compete is affected by certain regulatory developments that historically has benefited our products, including regulatory restrictions against distribution of similar products by Chinese companies, and changes in such regulatory requirement may adversely affect our sales. Our ability to compete and sell our products may be affected by certain regulatory developments that restrict other competitors to sell into the same markets as those served by our products. Specifically, regulatory and government agencies in various jurisdictions, 27 Table of Contents including the U.S., the EU, South Korea and Japan have implemented rules and regulations that limit Chinese companies from selling and distributing certain products due to concerns that China may gain access to sensitive and advanced technologies for the development and manufacturing of next-generation semiconductor products. Such regulations may include export control regulations, restriction on transfer of intellectual property and other restrictions on commercial activities and strategic transactions by Chinese companies. While we have benefited from such regulations in the past, there is no guarantee that these regulations will continue. If regulatory and government agencies decide to relax or modify these regulations to permit more companies that compete with us to enter into the same market, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and difficulty in predicting our quarterly operating results could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and will do so in the future. As a result, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our revenue and results of operations may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. Factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include but are not limited to: changes in the size, growth or growth prospects of the 5G markets; timing and success of commercial deployments of and upgrades to 4G and the next generation 5G wireless networks; our ability to develop and sell new products and penetrate into new markets; our ability to successfully design and release new products in a timely manner that meet our customers needs; the timing of customer orders and the delivery of our products; the timing of product announcements by competitors or us; changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including new entrants or pricing pressures, and our ability to compete in the 4G LTE and 5G markets; changes in the pricing of our products and any discounts or rebates that we offer to customers; costs associated with litigation, especially related to intellectual property and securities class actions; costs associated with any violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, or other similar foreign laws; reductions in orders and cancellations by our major customers; changes in manufacturing costs, including wafer, test and assembly costs; the impact of rising inflation and interest rates on consumer demand for electronic products; availability of adequate manufacturing capacity for our products; and general economic conditions globally and in regions where we operate. Moreover, sales of our semiconductor solutions fluctuate from period to period due to cyclicality in the semiconductor industry and the short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand characteristics of this industry. We expect these cyclical conditions to continue. Due to our limited operating history, we have yet to experience an established pattern of seasonality. However, business activities in Asia generally slowdown in the first quarter of each year during the lunar new year period, which could harm our sales and results of operations during the period. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term and are based, in part, on our future revenue projections. If revenue levels are below our expectations, we may experience declines in margins and profitability or incur a loss from our operations. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict, even in the near term, which may result in our revenue and results of operations being below the expectations of analysts and investors, and which could cause the market price of the stock to decline. 28 Table of Contents Our business depends on international customers, suppliers and operations in Asia, which subjects us to additional risks, including increased complexity and costs of managing international operations and geopolitical instability. We rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, customers and suppliers located primarily in the Asia-Pacific region. We also have, and will continue to have, research and development facilities in Korea and sales offices in China, Japan, Korea and Taiwan. As a result of our international focus, we are subject to a number of risks, including: increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; longer and more difficult collection of receivables; difficulties in enforcing contracts generally; limited protection of our intellectual property and other assets; restrictions on our ability to export our technology from the U.S. and other countries; compliance with local laws and regulations and unanticipated changes in local laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations; complexities in the accounting and financial management of our operations; trade and foreign exchange restrictions and higher tariffs; travel restrictions; timing and availability of import and export licenses and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses, including export classification requirements; foreign currency exchange fluctuations relating to our international operating activities; transportation delays and limited local infrastructure and disruptions, such as large scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers; difficulties in staffing international operations; adverse changes in economic and political conditions resulting from political instability, acts of terrorism, armed conflict, social unrest, and other circumstances impacting countries in which our or our customers operate, including as a result of any escalation of the current tensions between Taiwan and China; the risk of government financed competition; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices; differing employment practices and labor issues; and regional health issues and natural disasters. In addition, although we do not conduct any business in North Korea, any future increase in political or military tensions between South Korea and North Korea, or between the U.S. and North Korea, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business operations could be significantly harmed by natural disasters or global epidemics. We have research and development facilities located in San Jose, California which could suffer significant business disruption due to earthquakes. A significant portion of our products is manufactured by third-party contractors located in the Pacific Rim region, including Taiwan. The risk of an earthquake or tsunami in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines to the facilities of our foundry vendors and assembly and test subcontractors. In the event of an earthquake, our customers and suppliers may be affected by rolling blackouts, decreased access to raw materials and limited ability to ship inventory. If these conditions persist, we may experience delay or cancellation of orders from our customers if they are unable to obtain adequate supplies of components needed for the manufacture of their products that incorporate our components. We may also experience shortages of key materials required for the assembly of our own products, which could limit our ability to manufacture and ship these products. In either event, our net sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are not currently covered by insurance against business disruption caused by earthquakes. Our business could be adversely affected by epidemics or outbreaks such as COVID-19, avian flu or H1N1 flu, also known as swine flu. An outbreak of respiratory virus in the human population, or another similar health crisis, could adversely affect the economies and 29 Table of Contents financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Moreover, any related disruptions to transportation or the free movement of persons could hamper our operations and force us to close our offices temporarily. The occurrence of any of the foregoing or other natural or man-made disasters could cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, operations, distribution channels, markets and customers, which could result in significant delays in deliveries or substantial shortages of our products and adversely affect our business results of operations, financial condition, or prospects. Failure to comply with governmental laws and regulations could harm our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, workplace safety, product safety, environmental laws, consumer protection laws, anti-bribery laws, import/export controls, federal securities laws and tax laws and regulations. In certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements are more stringent than in the United States. It is expected that new environmental laws and regulations will impact our products and operations, and although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such changes, they may increase our operating and manufacturing costs or result in increased penalties, which could harm our business. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties or injunctions. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we may incur significant costs to respond to or defend against adverse government proceedings, and these actions may divert our managements attention and resources. Enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The enactment of legislation implementing changes in the U.S. taxation of international business activities or the adoption of other tax reform policies could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. The U.S. government has made public statements indicating that it has made international tax reform a priority, and key members of the U.S. Congress have conducted hearings and proposed new legislation. Recent changes to U.S. tax laws, including limitations on the ability of taxpayers to claim and utilize foreign tax credits and the deferral of certain tax deductions until earnings outside of the United States are repatriated to the United States, as well as changes to U.S. tax laws that may be enacted in the future, could impact the tax treatment of our foreign earnings. Due to the large and expanding scale of our international business activities, any changes in the U.S. taxation of such activities may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Being a Public Company We may experience significant fluctuations in our results of operations, including as a result of seasonality, making it difficult to project future results. Our operating results may vary significantly and are not necessarily an indication of future performance. These fluctuations may be a result of a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as general market and industry trends or the operations of our partners and collaborators. Our ability to attract and retain new customers and suppliers, increased competition in the markets in which we operate, our ability to expand our operations in new and existing markets, our ability to maintain an adequate growth rate and effectively manage that growth, our ability to keep pace with technological changes in the industries in which we operate, changes in governmental or other regulations affecting our business, harm to our brand or reputation, and other risks described elsewhere in these risk factors. As such, we may not accurately forecast our operating results. A significant portion of our expenses and investments are fixed, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our revenue is less than expected, resulting in losses that exceed our expectations. If we are unable to achieve sustained profits, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be negatively impacted. We may be subject to securities or class action litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention. Our share price may be volatile and, in the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of our stock have been subject to securities litigation, including class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of managements attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any adverse determination in litigation or any amounts paid to settle any such actual or threatened litigation could require that us make significant payments and/or could also subject us to significant liabilities. Our Charter and Bylaws provide for an exclusive forum in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware for certain disputes between us and our stockholders, and that the federal district courts of the United States will be the exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action under the Securities Act. Our Charter provide, that: unless we consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, (i) (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of us, (b) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any current or former director, officer, 30 Table of Contents other employee or stockholder of ours to our or our stockholders, (c) any action asserting a claim against us or our current or directors, officers, employees, or stockholders arising pursuant to any provision of DGCL, the Charter or Bylaws (as either may be amended or restated) or as to which DGCL confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or (d) any action asserting a claim against us or our current or former directors, officers, employees, or stockholders governed by the internal affairs doctrine of the law of the State of Delaware shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be brought by any stockholder (including a beneficial owner) exclusively in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or, solely if such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction thereof, in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware; and (ii) the federal district courts of the United States shall be the exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. Nothing in our Charter or Bylaws precludes stockholders that assert claims under the Exchange Act from bringing such claims in federal court to the extent that the Exchange Act confers exclusive federal jurisdiction over such claims, subject to applicable law. We believe these provisions may benefit us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law and federal securities laws by chancellors and judges, as applicable, particularly experienced in resolving corporate disputes, efficient administration of cases on a more expedited schedule relative to other forums and protection against the burdens of multi-forum litigation. If a court were to find the choice of forum provision that is contained in our Charter or our Bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. Accordingly, there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce such a forum selection provision as written in connection with claims arising under the Securities Act. The choice of forum provisions may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or any of our current or former director, officer, other employee, agent, or stockholder to the Company, which may discourage such claims against us or any of our current or former director, officer, other employee, agent, or stockholder to the Company and result in increased costs for investors to bring a claim. General Risks Related to the Company The loss of any of our key personnel could seriously harm our business, and our failure to attract or retain specialized technical, management or sales and marketing talent could impair our ability to grow our business. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled management, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. The loss of any key employees or the inability to attract, retain or motivate qualified personnel, including engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of and harm our ability to sell our semiconductor solutions. We believe that our future success is dependent on the contributions of our senior management members, some of whom do not have any employment agreements. If any of these individuals were to leave unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity during the search for any such successor and while any successor is integrated into our business and operations. Our key technical and engineering personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We plan to recruit design and application engineers with expertise in wireless communications technologies. We may not be successful in attracting, retaining and motivating sufficient numbers of technical and engineering personnel to support our anticipated growth. In addition, to expand our customer base and increase sales to existing customers, we will need to hire additional qualified sales and marketing personnel. The competition for qualified marketing, sales, technical and engineering personnel in our industry is very intense. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified marketing, sales, technical and engineering personnel in a timely manner, our ability to grow our business will be impaired. In addition, if we are unable to retain our existing sales personnel, our ability to maintain or grow our current level of revenue will be adversely affected. Being a public company will increase our expenses and administrative workload and will expose us to risks relating to evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a public company, we are required to comply with additional laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act, and related rules of the SEC and requirements of the NYSE. We were not required to comply with these laws and requirements as a private company. Complying with these laws and regulations requires the time and attention of our Board and management and increases our expenses. Among other things, it requires the following: establishing, evaluating and maintaining a system of internal control over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the PCAOB; the preparation and distribution of periodic reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; the establishment of internal policies, principally those relating to disclosure control and 31 Table of Contents procedures and corporate governance; instituting a more comprehensive compliance function; and the involvement to a greater degree our outside legal counsel and accountants in the above activities. We are required to comply with Section 404 in our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2024. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory agencies such as the SEC. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our consolidated financial statements or the trading price of our Common Stock to decline. If we fail to remediate any material weakness, our consolidated financial statements may be inaccurate, our access to the capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our Common Stock may decline. As a public company, we will be required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a material weakness or changes in internal controls that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. A control deficiency exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. A significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects the ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that results in more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated. These attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. Hackers may also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities in our systems or products. Attacks may create system disruptions, cause shutdowns or result in the corruption of our engineering data, which could result in delays in product development or software updates and harm our business. Additionally, the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers or business partners confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. We could also suffer monetary and other losses, including reputational harm, which costs we may not be able to recover. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. While we have identified some incidents involving attempts at unauthorized access, we are not aware of any that have succeeded. While we have not experienced any cybersecurity breaches that materially affected our operations, there is no guarantee that we will not occur in the future. In addition, our customers, partners and suppliers may experience cybersecurity attacks that may indirectly affect our ability to conduct business with them or result in cybersecurity breaches in our network, which may adversely affect our business operations. We expect to continue to devote resources to the security of our information technology systems. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity. Our cybersecurity risk management process is an integral part of our overall enterprise risk management framework. This process, overseen by our Information Technology (IT) Director, aims to assess, identify, and manage material risks from cybersecurity threats. Our approach is designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our critical information systems and data, including intellectual property and confidential information. We conduct periodic risk assessments to identify potential internal and external cybersecurity threats. These assessments evaluate the likelihood of the occurrence and potential impact of such threats, as well as the adequacy of our existing policies, procedures, systems, and controls. The Board oversees our cybersecurity risk management process, and the Audit Committee has the authority and power to provide specific oversight of cybersecurity matters. Our IT Director who has extensive experience in information systems and cybersecurity, leads our cybersecurity strategy, policy, standards, architecture, and processes. The IT Director reports to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO).The CFO provides regular updates to the Board, Audit Committee, and executive management on the status of our cybersecurity posture and any material threats. 32 Table of Contents Our cybersecurity program employs industry-standard methodologies to manage cybersecurity risks, including secure network infrastructure design, continuous security updates, and automated alerts for suspicious activities. We also conduct regular training for employees at all levels on cybersecurity awareness and the protection of confidential information. In the event of a cybersecurity incident, our incident response process is designed to detect, respond to, and mitigate the impact. Significant incidents are escalated to a team of business leaders, including our Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer, who work with our incident response team to assess and address the situation. The Audit Committee oversees managements response to significant incidents and ensures compliance with disclosure requirements. To maintain high security standards, we leverage third-party tools and services that adhere to industry best practices, including multi-layer authentication. Despite our efforts, we acknowledge that cybersecurity threats are constantly evolving, and we remain vigilant in our efforts to protect our information systems and data. As of December 31, 2024, we have not identified any cybersecurity threats that have materially affected our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. However, we recognize that future incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or reputation. For further discussion of cybersecurity risks, please refer to the Risk Factors section under the heading General Risks Related to the Company. Item 2. Properties. Our principal executive offices are located in San Jose, California, and consist of approximately 5,900 square feet under a lease that expires in October 2026. This facility accommodates our product marketing and finance and administrative activities as well as a small research and development team. We have a 56,500 square-foot facility in Seoul, Korea, which accommodates a research and development center under a lease expiring in December 2025 that renews annually. We have a 100 square-foot facility in Taipei, Taiwan, which houses sales and technical support personnel, under a lease that expires in June 2025. We also have an 850 square-foot facility in Shanghai, China, for sales and technical support personnel under a lease that expires in July 2026 and a 1,200 square-foot facility in Shenzhen, China, which accommodates sales and technical support personnel, under a lease that expires in May 2025. We do not own any real property. We believe that our leased facilities are adequate to meet our current needs and that additional facilities will be available on suitable, commercially reasonable terms to accommodate any future needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are not currently a party to any material legal proceedings. From time to time, we may, however, in the ordinary course of business become involved in legal proceedings. Regardless of outcome, litigation could have a material adverse effect on us due to defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources, negative publicity, reputational harm and other factors, and there can be no assurances that favorable outcomes will be obtained. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 33 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our Common Stock and Public Warrants are currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbols GCTS and GCTSW, respectively. Holders of Record On March 20, 2025, there were 123 holders of record of our common stock and 5 holders of record of our warrants. Such numbers do not include beneficial owners holding our securities through nominee names. Dividends We have not paid any cash dividends on Common Stock to date. The Board may from time to time consider whether or not to institute a dividend policy. It is our present intention to retain any earnings for use in our business operations and accordingly, we do not anticipate the Board declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent upon our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements and general financial condition. The payment of any cash dividends will be within the discretion of our Board. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans The information required by Item 5 of Form 10-K regarding equity compensation plans is incorporated herein by reference to Item 12 of Part III of this Annual Report. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities During the quarter ended December 31, 2024, we did not repurchase any equity securities. Item 6. [Reserved] 34 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, our expectations or predictions of future financial or business performance or conditions. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. You should read the sections in this Annual Report titled Risk Factors and Special Note of Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by these forward-looking statements. Overview We are a fabless semiconductor company that specializes in the design, manufacturing and sale of communication semiconductors, including high-speed wireless communication technologies such as 5G/4.75G/4.5G/4G transceivers (RF) and modems, which are essential for a wide variety of industrial, B2B and consumer applications. We have successfully developed and supplied communication semiconductor chipsets and modules to leading wireless operators worldwide, as well as to original design manufacturers (ODMs) and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) for portable wireless routers (e.g., Mobile Router (MiFi)), indoor and outdoor fixed wireless routers (e.g., customer premise equipment (CPE)), industrial machine-to-machine (M2M) applications and smartphones. We oversee sales, marketing, and accounting operations from our headquarters in San Jose, California. The Company conducts product design, development, and customer support through our wholly owned subsidiaries located in South Korea, one of which serves as our research and development center. In addition, we utilize separate sales offices for local technical support and sales in Taiwan, China, and Japan. Our current product portfolio includes RF and modem chipsets based on 4th generation (4G), known as Long Term Evolution (LTE), technology offering a variety of chipsets differentiated by speed and functionality. These include 4G LTE, 4.5G LTE Advanced (twice the speed of LTE), and 4.75G LTE Advanced-Pro (four times the speed of LTE) chipsets. The Company also develops and sells cellular Internet of Things (IoT) chipsets for low-speed mobile networks such as eMTC/NB- IOT/Sigfox, and other network protocols. Even as more and more applications are deployed on 5G networks, we nonetheless anticipate continued demand for our existing 4G LTE product lineup (4.75G/4.5G/4G, etc.) for the foreseeable future, because 4G products are expected to coexist in the market with 5G products at lower price points for some time in the same way that 3rd generation (3G) products coexisted with 4G products when 4G networks were first deployed. We expect introduction of our 5G products beginning in the first half of 2025. Also, we expect the average sales prices for our 5G chipset to be approximately four times that of our 4G chipset, resulting in a significant increase in revenue and gross margins. We plan to continuously expand our product lineup to support 5G chipsets for future applications such as vehicle-to-everything standard (e.g., C-V2X), 5G-based satellite communication (e.g., Non-Terrestrial Network) and 5G-based IoT standard (e.g., RedCap). Our current chipset products are used in a wide variety of applications, including fixed wireless subscriber terminals (e.g., CPE), mobile wireless routers (e.g., Mobile Router/MiFi), various communication modules and devices, and industrial products. Since inception, we have financed our operations primarily through cash receipts from customers, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, borrowings, issuance of capital stock, and the exercise of stock options. Business Combination On the Closing Date, Concord Acquisition Corp III (Concord III), a Delaware corporation, consummated a series of transactions that resulted in the combination of Gibraltar Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Concord III (Merger Sub), and GCT Semiconductor, Inc. (Legacy GCT), pursuant to a Business Combination Agreement, dated November 2, 2023 (the Business Combination Agreement), by and among Concord III, Merger Sub and Legacy GCT. Pursuant to the terms of the Business Combination Agreement, Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy GCT, with Legacy GCT surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Concord III (the Business Combination). On the Closing Date, Concord III changed its name from Concord III to GCT Semiconductor Holding, Inc. The Business Combination was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization, with Legacy GCT being the accounting acquirer and Concord III being the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. As a result, Legacy GCTs consolidated financial statements for historical periods will be included in GCTs future periodic reports filed with the SEC. The Company received $17.2 million cash proceeds from the Business Combination and private investment from public equity financing (PIPE Financing), net of transaction costs. Total direct and incremental transaction costs of Concord III and Legacy GCT were $22.0 million and treated as a reduction of the cash proceeds, of which $8.9 million was deducted from additional paid-in capital for 35 Table of Contents underwriting, accounting, legal and other fees, and the remaining balance of $13.1 million was expensed in the period incurred by Concord III. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our future success and financial performance depend on a number of factors that present significant opportunities for our business but also pose risks and challenges, including those in the section titled Risk Factors of this Annual Report. Commercial Deployment of 4G LTE and 5G Market Our business depends upon the continued commercial deployment of 4G and 5G wireless communications equipment, products, and services based on GCTs technology. Deployment of new networks by wireless carriers requires significant capital expenditures well in advance of any revenue from such networks. If the rate of deployment of new networks by wireless carriers is slower than our expectation, this will reduce the sales of its products and could cause OEMs and ODMs to hold excess inventory. This would harm our revenues and our financial results. The worldwide commercial deployment and adoption of the narrow band LTE variants, Cat M and Cat NB, are expected to expand further the markets for Internet of Things devices. If deployments of the Cat M or Cat NB standards are delayed or if competing standards for Internet of Things devices become favored by wireless carriers, we may not be able to successfully increase sales of our Cat M and Cat NB products, which would harm our revenues and financial results. Development of New Products The markets in which we and our customers compete or plan to compete are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, industry standards, and technological obsolescence. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to design, develop, market, and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. A fundamental shift in technologies in any of our target markets, such as the 5G wireless communications markets, could harm our competitive position within these markets. Our failure to anticipate these shifts, develop new technologies, or react to changes in existing technologies could delay our development of new products, which could result in product obsolescence, decreased revenue, and loss of design wins. The success of our new products will depend on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand, customer and consumer requirements, and future technological developments, as well as a variety of specific implementation factors, including: accurate prediction of the size and growth of the 4G and 5G markets; accurate prediction of the growth of the Internet of Things markets and the timing of commercial availability of 4G and 5G networks; accurate prediction of changes in device manufacturer requirements, technology, industry standards or consumer expectations, demands, and preferences; timely and efficient completion of product design and transfer to manufacturing, assembly and test, and securing sufficient manufacturing capacity to allow us to continue to timely and efficiently deliver products to our customers; market acceptance, adequate consumer demand, and commercial production of the products in which our mobile and wireless broadband semiconductor solutions are incorporated; the quality, performance, and reliability of the product as compared to competing products and technologies; effective marketing, sales, and service; and the ability to obtain licenses to use third-party technology to support the development of our products. If we fail to introduce new products that meet the demands of our customers or our target markets, or if we fail to penetrate new markets, our revenue will likely decrease over time, and our financial condition could suffer. Semiconductor and Communications Industry The semiconductor industry has historically exhibited a pattern of cyclicality, which at various times has included significant downturns in customer demand. Cyclical downturns can result in substantial declines in semiconductor demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels, and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Such downturns result from a variety of market forces, including constant and rapid technological change, quick product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Downturns in the semiconductor industry have been attributed to a variety of factors, including the COVID19 pandemic, ongoing trade disputes between the United States and China, weakness in demand and pricing for semiconductors across applications, and excess inventory. In addition, from the end of 2022, the semiconductor industry experienced a downturn due to inventory corrections and 36 Table of Contents reduced consumer demands. These downturns have directly impacted GCTs business, suppliers, distributors, and end customers. More recently the semiconductor industry has normalized however there have been lingering effects that continue to effect certain segments including that for 4G LTE, where channel inventories continue to exist and where demand has been reduced due to expedited customer transition from 4G LTE to 5G. Because a significant portion of our expenses are fixed in the near term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to reduce our expenses rapidly enough to offset any unanticipated shortfall in revenue. If this situation were to occur, it could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow, and financial condition. In addition, the semiconductor industry has periodically experienced increased demand and production constraints. As a fabless semiconductor company, we rely exclusively on third-party foundries, including certain major semiconductor foundries such as UMC, Samsung and TSMC, for the manufacturing and supplies of its wafers and products. We do not have any formal foundry agreements that guarantee a minimum level of manufacturing capacity. In times of significant increasing demand for capacity, these foundries may experience production shortages and may not allocate sufficient manufacturing capacity to us. If this happens, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of our products to meet the increased demand. Any disruption in our supply chain can make it more difficult for us to obtain sufficient wafer, assembly, and test resources from our subcontract manufacturers. Any factor adversely affecting the semiconductor industry in general, or the particular segments of the industry that our products target, may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and impact our operating results. In addition, a shortage of manufacturing capacity can also impact the product development strategies of our major customers, which may, in turn, affect our business operations. For example, in 2022, the supply shortage caused our largest customer to change its priority on product development from 4G to the next generation of 5G products, which resulted in the reduction of 4G activity and a decline in demand for our products. Our business is expected to increase again with this customer after the launch of our 5G products. In the past, the wireless communications industry has experienced pronounced downturns, and these cycles may continue in the future. A future decline in global economic conditions could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers or other members of the wireless industry, such as wireless network operators. Inflation, deflation, and economic recessions that adversely affect the global economy and capital markets also adversely affect our customers and our end consumers. For example, our customers ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, obtain financing, and upgrade wireless networks could be adversely affected, which may lead to many networking equipment providers slowing their research and development activities, canceling, or delaying new product development, reducing their inventories, and taking a cautious approach to acquiring our products, which would have a significant negative impact on our business. If this situation were to occur, it could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow, and financial condition. In the future, any of these trends may also cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from year to year, which may increase the volatility of our stock price. Public Company Costs As a result of the Business Combination, we became the successor to an SEC-registered and NYSE-listed company, which requires us to hire additional personnel and implement procedures and processes to address and comply with public company regulatory requirements and customary practices. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional expenses as a public company including directors and officers liability insurance premiums, director fees, and additional internal and external audit, accounting, legal, and administrative costs. Key Components of Results of Operations Net Revenues The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue recognized in each case depends on various factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of the underlying performance obligations. Our net revenues are comprised of product and service revenues. Product Revenues Our product sales are generated from the sale of mobile semiconductor products. Product revenues are recognized at a point in time once control has been transferred to a customer, which is generally at the time of shipment. Service Revenues Our service revenues are generated from the sale of mobile semiconductor platform solutions aimed at the 4G LTE and 5G industries, development services, technical advice, and maintenance services. Service revenues are generally recognized over time as the customer obtains control of the promised services. 37 Table of Contents Cost of Net Revenues Our cost of net revenues consists of product and service costs. The cost of product net revenues consists of direct and indirect costs related to the manufacturing of our products. Direct costs include wafer costs and costs of assembly and testing performed by third-party contract manufacturers. Indirect costs consist of provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, royalties, allocated overhead for employee costs and facility costs, warranty, and the amortization of our production mask sets and certain intangible assets. Shipping and handling costs incurred for inventory purchases related to the units sold and costs of product shipments are also recorded in the cost of net product revenues. Service costs consist of non-recurring engineering costs for service projects. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses Our research and development (R&D) expenses consist of costs incurred to develop our products and services. These expenses consist of personnel costs, including salaries, employee benefit costs, and stock-based compensation for employees engaged in R&D activities, software costs, computing costs, hardware and experimental supplies, and expenses for outside engineering consultants. We expense all R&D costs in the periods in which they are incurred. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing (S&M) expenses consist of employee-related expenses, including salaries, commissions, employee benefits costs, and stock-based compensation for all marketing, sales, and sales support employees. S&M expenses also include local and centralized advertising costs and the infrastructure required to support our marketing efforts. We expense S&M costs in the periods in which they are incurred. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative (G&A) expenses consist of various components not related to R&D or S&M, such as personnel costs, regulatory fees, costs associated with maintaining and filing intellectual property, meals and entertainment expenses, travel expenses, insurance expenses, and other expenditures related to external professional services including legal, engineering, marketing, human resources, audit, and accounting services. Personnel costs include salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. As we continue to grow and expand our workforce and operations, and considering the increased costs associated with operating as a public company, we anticipate that our G&A expenses will increase for the foreseeable future. Gain on Extinguishment of Liability Gain on extinguishment of liability relates to the release by a vendor due to a contract termination during the period of amounts payable by us for research and development services received in prior years. Interest Expense Interest expense primarily consists of interest and amortization of related debt issuance costs related to our borrowings and convertible promissory notes. Other Income (Expenses) Other income and expenses are comprised of various items that are not directly related to our operations, including foreign currency gains and losses, changes in fair value of convertible promissory notes, changes in fair value of common stock warrant liabilities, and other miscellaneous income and expenses. Results of Operations This section discusses the results of our operations for the periods indicated. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results. 38 Table of Contents Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 The following table sets forth our historical results for the periods indicated and the changes between periods (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ change % change Net revenues: Product $ 4,771 $ 10,968 $ (6,197 ) (57 )% Service 4,357 5,060 (703 ) (14 )% Total net revenues 9,128 16,028 (6,900 ) (43 )% Cost of net revenues: Product 2,523 7,343 (4,820 ) (66 )% Service 1,529 1,951 (422 ) (22 )% Total cost of net revenues 4,052 9,294 (5,242 ) (56 )% Gross profit 5,076 6,734 (1,658 ) (25 )% Operating expenses: Research and development 17,329 10,712 6,617 62 % Sales and marketing 3,920 3,188 732 23 % General and administrative 10,798 7,392 3,406 46 % Gain on extinguishment of liability (14,636 ) (14,636 ) (100 )% Loss on impairment of long-lived assets 787 787 100 % Total operating expenses 18,198 21,292 (3,094 ) (15 )% Loss from operations (13,122 ) (14,558 ) 1,436 (10 )% Interest expense (3,867 ) (6,246 ) 2,379 (38 )% Gain on foreign currency transactions, net 4,690 266 4,424 1,663 % Change in fair value of common stock warrant liabilities 2,208 2,208 100 % Change in fair value of convertible promissory notes (1,470 ) (1,428 ) (42 ) 3 % Loss from initial recognition of common stock forward liability (586 ) (586 ) 100 % Other income, net 213 38 175 461 % Loss before provision for income taxes (11,934 ) (21,928 ) 9,994 (46 )% Provision for income taxes 445 541 (96 ) (18 )% Net loss $ (12,379 ) $ (22,469 ) $ 10,090 (45 )% Net Revenues Net revenues decreased by $6.9 million, or 43%, from $16.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $9.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. The decrease was due to a decrease of $6.2 million in product sales and a decrease of $0.7 million in service revenue. Product sales decreased by $6.2 million, or 57%, from $11.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. This decrease is driven by a reduction of $5.0 million of LTE product sales and a decrease of $1.2 million in LTE platform sales. This trend was primarily due to the changing priorities of our largest customers that shifted their focus to the next generation 5G products. Our net revenues are expected to increase with these customers after we launch our 5G products. Service revenues decreased by $0.7 million, or 14%, from $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $4.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. This decrease was due to the timing and scope of our service projects for LTE products. Cost of Net Revenues Cost of net revenues decreased by $5.2 million, or 56%, from $9.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, driven primarily by the reduction in our product sales. Product costs decreased by $4.8 million, or 66%, from $7.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. This decrease in product costs was driven primarily by the reduction in direct product costs as we sold fewer units. Service costs decreased by $0.4 million, or 22%, from $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. This decrease in service costs was driven primarily by the reduction in direct costs as we were engaged in service projects with lower scope. 39 Table of Contents Our gross margins increased to 56% for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to 42% for the year ended December 31, 2023primarily due to changes in the product and revenue offerings mix. Specifically, we increased the share of reference platform sales and generated higher margins from our service offerings during the year ended December 31, 2024. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased by $6.6 million, or 62% from $10.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $17.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily in connection with our development projects. This increase reflects our 5G development program launched during 2024 and was primarily due to a $4.1 million increase in research and development expenses mainly related to professional services provided by Alpha related to the design of 5G chip products, a $2.0 million increase in development expenses related to our new 5G chip products, a $0.5 million increase in stock-based compensation expense due to issuance and vesting of share-based awards, and a $0.4 million increase in allocated overheads, partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in pre-production costs and a $0.2 million reduction in support and maintenance. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased by $0.7 million, or 23%, from $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. This change was primarily due to a $0.2 million increase in temporary services, and a $0.1 million increase in each of personnel related costs, allocations, travel, and stock-based compensation. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased by $3.4 million, or 46%, from $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $10.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. The change was primarily due to a $2.0 million increase in stock-based compensation related to the issuance and vesting of share-based awards, a $0.9 million increase in professional expenses related to the public company operations, a $0.7 million increase in temporary services, and a $0.5 million increase in personnel costs, partially offset by a $0.5 million decrease in allocations and a $0.4 million decrease in other expenses. Gain on Extinguishment of Liability Gain on extinguishment of liability was $14.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 due to the release by a vendor of amounts payable by us for research and development services received in prior years. No similar transactions took place during the year ended December 31, 2023. Loss on Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Loss on impairment of intangible assets was $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 due to impairment charges for certain long-lived assets that were determined to be not recoverable. No impairment charges were recorded for the year ended December 31, 2023. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased by $2.4 million, or 38%, from $6.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. The decrease of $2.4 million was primarily due to the conversion of significant amounts of outstanding convertible notes upon the closing of the Business Combination. Gain on foreign currency transactions, net Gain on foreign currency transactions increased by $4.4 million, or 1,663%, from $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. This increase of $4.4 million was largely driven by foreign exchange fluctuations, specifically the appreciation of the US dollar against the Korean Won during the fourth quarter of 2024. Since significant amounts of our debt are denominated in Korean Wons, these trends have resulted in significant realized and unrealized gains during the year ended December 31, 2024. Change in fair value of common stock warrant liabilities During the year ended December 31, 2024, we recognized a gain of $2.2 million from changes in the fair value of common stock warrant liabilities. This gain was primarily driven by the reduction in our common stock price during this period. There were no gains or losses from the warrant liabilities measurement during the year ended December 31, 2023 since the statements of operations during this period are those of Legacy GCT, which did not have liability-classified warrants. Change in fair value of convertible promissory notes Loss from changes in fair value of convertible promissory notes was $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 and $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. These losses in each year were derived from the fair value measurement and related assumptions, 40 Table of Contents specifically changes in the probability of different settlement scenarios during the year ended December 31, 2023, and remeasurement of the convertible notes prior to their settlement in our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2024. Loss from initial recognition of common stock forward liability We recognized a loss from initial recognition of common stock forward liability of $0.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2024, which represents the initial fair value of the financial instrument issued under the Purchase Agreement with B. Riley. There were no similar transactions during the year ended December 31, 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed our operations primarily through cash receipts from customers, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, borrowings, issuance of capital stock, the exercise of stock options, and more recently, the sale of our common stock pursuant to an equity line of credit as described below (ELOC). With limited exceptions, we have incurred and expect that we will continue to incur significant operating losses. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had a net loss of $12.4 million and $22.5 million, respectively, and used cash in operating activities of $31.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $562.0 million and $549.7 million, respectively. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary if we are unable to obtain adequate financing in the future. In March 2024, we received $17.2 million in cash proceeds from the reverse recapitalization and PIPE Financing, net of transaction costs in connection with the closing of the Business Combination. In April 2024, we entered into the ELOC under a common stock purchase agreement (the Purchase Agreement) and a related registration rights agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement) with B. Riley Principal Capital II, LLC (B. Riley). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, we have the right but not the obligation, to sell, from time to time, to B. Riley up to $50.0 million in aggregate gross purchase price of shares of our common stock in our sole discretion, subject to certain conditions and limitations, during the term of 24 months. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, we filed a registration statement on Form S-1 to register the resale of shares of common stock to be sold to B. Riley, which became effective on June 6, 2024. Through February 28, 2025, we sold an aggregate of 2,438,037 shares of our common stock for $9.7 million under the Purchase Agreement and received cash proceeds of $8.7 million and $1.0 million was withheld by B. Riley against the outstanding amounts payable. As of December 31, 2024, we have outstanding convertible promissory notes and borrowings with a total principal amount of $42.6 million, of which $37.6 million is contractually due within 12 months from this reporting date. During July, October and November 2024, we were able to renegotiate the timing of payments for some of the obligations that initially were due in the third and the fourth fiscal quarters of 2024, and the first fiscal quarter of 2025. However, our existing debt obligations largely remain due within one year from December 31, 2024. In November and December 2024, we entered into term loan agreements with Kyeongho Lee, pursuant to which we borrowed $2.9 million and $2.1 million, maturing in December 2024 and January 2025, respectively. In December 2024, we entered into a term loan agreement with Anapass, Inc. pursuant to which we borrowed $3.4 million maturing in December 2025. In January 2025, we entered into a term loan agreement with Kyeongho Lee pursuant to which we borrowed $4.5 million maturing in February 2025. In March 2025, we entered into a term loan agreement with Anapass, Inc. pursuant to which we borrowed $3.1 million maturing in March 2026. During February 2025, we were able to renegotiate the timing of payments for some of the obligations, including loan agreements with i Best Investment Co., Ltd, that initially were due in the first fiscal quarter of 2025. We will need to start generating positive cash flows, renegotiate our existing debt obligations and raise additional capital through debt or equity financing. There can be no assurance that such additional debt or equity financing will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. While a portion of the cash proceeds received in connection with the Business Combination was expended to support our 5G activity and fund other operational expenses, we expect that further and significant ongoing operating expenditures will be necessary to successfully implement our business plan and market our products. With the start of manufacturing, shipments and commercialization of our first 5G chipset expected during the first half of 2025, we anticipate significant expenditures in the form of production-related costs, including mask sets, wafers, and design service fees, and most such costs will be incurred prior to the commencement of manufacturing and production. If we do not have sufficient funds to make such payments, or if we cannot extend the terms of our existing commercial loans or to raise additional capital through equity or debt offerings, the payments can be delayed, which may adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. While we believe that we will be able to secure additional capital and funding in the next 12 months to sustain our operations, the report of our independent registered accounting firm included in this Form 10-K contains a paragraph expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. For a more detailed description of such risks, please see the section entitled Risk Factors disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 41 Table of Contents We intend to mitigate the risk of any working capital deficit by continuing to seek and execute appropriate actions to secure funding as a publicly traded company, including extension and refinancing of existing loans, executing public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and other means. We have historically been able to raise capital through the issuance and sale of equity and equity-linked instruments, such as redeemable convertible preferred stock, convertible promissory notes, and borrowings, although no assurance can be provided that we would continue to be successful in doing so in the future. We expect to use such additional liquidity and the cash and cash equivalents available to us after the Closing to finance the following activities: Cost of mass production of 5G and other products, including masks, wafers and design house fees; Acquisition of IP and tool enhancement to develop next generation of product; Hiring of additional personnel in engineering and sales and marketing functions; and Improvement of engineering equipment. While we believe that we have a reasonable basis for our expectation and we will be available to raise additional funds, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to complete additional financing in a timely manner. In addition, the sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and may include operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot be certain that any financing will be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Should we enter into definitive collaboration and/or joint venture agreements or engage in business combinations in the future, we may be required to seek additional financing. Cash flow Comparison for the Years Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (30,957 ) $ (8,827 ) Net cash used in investing activities (542 ) (331 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 36,473 8,149 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (3,797 ) (131 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,177 $ (1,140 ) Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities of $31.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2024 was primarily attributable to our net loss of $12.4 million, non-cash adjustments of $9.7 million, and a net change in our operating assets and liabilities of $8.8 million. Non-cash adjustments consisted primarily of a $14.6 million gain from the extinguishment of liability, a $2.2 million gain from the change in fair value of warrant liabilities, a $0.4 million decrease in provision for credit loss, partially offset by $2.7 million in stock-based compensation, a $1.5 million loss from the change in fair value of convertible promissory notes, $0.8 million of impairment of certain long-lived assets that were determined to be not recoverable, $0.7 million in non-cash expense related to the issuance of common stock to an underwriter, $0.7 million in depreciation and amortization charges, a $0.6 million in operating lease right-of-use amortization, and a $0.6 million loss from the initial recognition of the common stock forward liability. The change in our operating assets and liabilities of $8.8 million primarily resulted from a decrease of $3.2 million in accrued and other current liabilities primarily due to the payment of costs incurred related to our Business Combination, a decrease of $2.6 million in accounts payable, an increase of $1.7 million in contract assets, an increase of $1.5 million in inventory, a decrease of $0.6 million in lease liabilities, an increase of $0.3 million in accounts receivable, an increase of $0.3 million in other assets and a decrease of $0.2 million in other liabilities, partially offset by a decrease of $1.1 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets, an increase of $0.5 million in net defined benefit liabilities, and an increase of $0.1 million in income taxes payable. Cash used in operating activities of $8.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily attributable to our net loss of $22.5 million, partially offset by $4.4 million in non-cash adjustments and $9.3 million change in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash adjustments consisted primarily of a $1.4 million loss from the change in fair value of convertible promissory notes, $1.1 million increase in credit loss allowance, $1.1 million in depreciation and amortization charges, and $0.7 million in operating lease right-of-use amortization. The change in our operating assets and liabilities of $9.3 million primarily resulted from an increase of $11.5 million in our accrued and other current liabilities related to the timing of payments and a decrease of $2.0 million in inventory, partially offset by an increase of $2.6 million in contract assets due to unbilled services provided under certain projects and an increase of $1.6 million in accounts receivable. 42 Table of Contents Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 was related solely to the purchases of property and equipment. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities of $36.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2024 consisted of $17.2 million from proceeds received from the reverse recapitalization and PIPE Financing, net of transaction costs, $16.3 million in proceeds from the issuance of convertible promissory notes, $11.9 million in proceeds from borrowings, $8.5 million proceeds received from issuance of common stock to B. Riley under the Purchase Agreement, and $2.2 million proceeds received from issuance of common stock in a private placement, partially offset by $14.1 million in repayment of our borrowings and $5.6 million repayment of convertible promissory notes. Cash provided by financing activities of $8.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily related to net proceeds from bank borrowings and convertible promissory notes of $10.1 million. These proceeds were partially offset by the outflows from repayment of our debt instruments, including bank borrowings of $1.5 million and convertible promissory notes of $0.5 million. Commitments and Contractual Obligations We have material commitments and contractual obligations, including leases, purchase commitments, and research and development agreements. We have various operating leases, under which we lease office equipment and office space. The operating leases have various expiration dates through 2026. We have certain commitments for outstanding purchase orders related to the manufacture of certain wafers utilized by the Company and other services, and we have entered into a material research and development agreement. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for more information regarding our additional commitments and contractual obligations. We have certain debt agreements in place related to convertible promissory notes and borrowings. See Note 7, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for more information regarding our debt arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making those estimates, and any such differences may be material. Revenue Recognition Our revenues are generated by the sale of mobile semiconductor solutions consisting of products and platform solutions aimed at the LTE and 5G industries, development services, and technical advice and maintenance services. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue recognized in each case depends on various factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of the underlying performance obligations. Revenues from sales of our products are recognized upon transfer of control to the customer, which is generally at the time of shipment. Service revenues from development services, technical advice, and maintenance services are generally recognized over time as these performance obligations are satisfied. We make estimates of potential future returns and sales allowances related to current period product revenue. We analyze historical return rates and changes in customer demand when evaluating the adequacy of returns and sales allowances. Although we believe we have a reasonable basis for our estimates, such estimates may differ from actual returns and sales allowances. These differences may materially impact reported net product revenues and amounts ultimately collected on accounts receivable. Provision for Credit Losses Accounts receivable balances are primarily derived from revenues earned from customers located in the United States, China, South Korea, Japan, and Taiwan. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of the financial conditions of our customers and distributors, and generally do not require collateral from our customers. We continuously monitor collections and payments from customers and maintain a provision for credit losses based upon the collectibility of our customer accounts. We review the provision by considering certain factors such as historical experience, industry data, credit quality, age of balances and current economic conditions that may affect a 43 Table of Contents customers ability to pay. Uncollectible receivables are written off when all efforts to collect have been exhausted and recoveries are recognized when they are recovered. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we had in the past. A significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on the collectibility of our accounts receivable and our future operating results. The provision for credit losses was $1.2 million and $1.6 million as of December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. Fair Value of Convertible Promissory Notes We have made an election to account for our convertible promissory notes under the fair value option, the convertible promissory notes are recorded at their initial fair value on the date of issuance and then are adjusted to fair value upon any modification and at each balance sheet date thereafter. Changes in the estimated fair value of the convertible promissory notes are recognized as non-cash gains or losses in the consolidated statements of operations within other income (expenses), net. Our convertible promissory notes are valued using a discounted cash flow (DCF) model or binomial lattice model (BLM), and, prior to the Business Combination, were valued using a combination of an option pricing model and Probability-Weighted Expected Return Method (PWERM), which are a Level 3 fair value measurements. Significant assumptions used in the DCF include the remaining term and discount rate. Significant assumptions used in the BLM include volatility, remaining term, risk-free rate, and credit spread. The PWERM is a scenario-based methodology that estimates the fair value based using an analysis of future values for the Company that assumes various outcomes. The value is based on the probability-weighted present value of expected future investment returns considering each of the possible outcomes available. The future value under each outcome is discounted back to the valuation date at an appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate and probability-weighted to arrive at an indication of value. Significant assumptions used in the PWERM include volatility, discount rate, and the probability of a future liquidity event. Contracts in Own Equity Fair Value of Liability-Classified Warrants We classify share-settled contracts, including warrants to purchase shares of the Companys common stock, that do not meet the indexation guidance as liabilities. At the end of each reporting period, these liability-classified instruments are remeasured using an option pricing model or BLM. Significant assumptions are used in determining the fair value of our warrants and include volatility and the risk-free rate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included herein for more information about recent accounting pronouncements, the timing of their adoption, and our assessment, to the extent we have made one yet, of their potential impact on our financial condition and results of operations. JOBS Act Accounting and Smaller Reporting Company Elections We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act until those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to use this extended transition period for complying with certain new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may or may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public companies effective dates. We are also a smaller reporting company, as defined in the Exchange Act. We may continue to be a smaller reporting company even after we are no longer an emerging growth company. We have elected to take advantage of certain of the scaled disclosures available to smaller reporting companies, and will be able to take advantage of these scaled disclosures for so long as the market value of our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates is less than $250.0 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter, or our annual revenue is less than $100.0 million during the most recently completed fiscal year and the market value of our voting and non-voting common stock held by non- affiliates is less than $700.0 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter.