Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. On March 26, 2024 (the Closing Date or Closing), GCT Semiconductor, Inc. (Legacy GCT) and Concord Acquisition Corp III, a Delaware corporation (Concord III), consummated the Merger pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement and Concord III changed its name to GCT Semiconductor Holding, Inc. (GCT). As a result, the financial statements of Legacy GCT are now the financial statements of GCT. This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Legacy GCTs audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 and related notes included in our Form 8-K filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on April 1, 2024. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, our expectations or predictions of future financial or business performance or conditions. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. You should read the sections in this Quarterly Report titled Risk Factors and Special Note of Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by these forward-looking statements.Unless otherwise indicated, the terms GCT, the Company, we, us, or our refer to GCT Semiconductor Holding Inc., a Delaware corporation, together with our consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a fabless semiconductor company that specializes in the design, manufacturing and sale of communication semiconductors, including high-speed wireless communication technologies such as 5G/4.75G/4.5G/4G transceivers (RF) and modems, which are essential for a wide variety of industrial, B2B and consumer applications. We have successfully developed and supplied communication semiconductor chipsets and modules to leading wireless operators worldwide, as well as to original design manufacturers (ODMs) and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) for portable wireless routers (e.g., Mobile Router/MiFi), indoor and outdoor fixed wireless routers (e.g., CPE), industrial M2M applications and smartphones. We oversee sales, marketing, and accounting operations from our headquarters in San Jose, California. The Company conducts product design, development, and customer support through our wholly owned subsidiaries located in South Korea, one of which serves as our research and development center. In addition, we utilize separate sales offices for local technical support and sales in Taiwan, China, and Japan. Our current product portfolio includes RF and modem chipsets based on 4th generation (4G), known as Long Term Evolution (LTE), technology offering a variety of chipsets differentiated by speed and functionality. These include 4G LTE, 4.5G LTE Advanced (twice the speed of LTE), and 4.75G LTE Advanced-Pro (four times the speed of LTE) chipsets. The Company also develops and sells cellular Internet of Things (IoT) chipsets for low-speed mobile networks such as eMTC/NB- IOT/Sigfox, and other network protocols. Since inception, we have financed our operations primarily through cash receipts from customers, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, borrowings, issuance of capital stock, and the exercise of stock options. Business Combination On the Closing Date, Concord III, a Delaware corporation, consummated a series of transactions that resulted in the combination of Gibraltar Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Concord III (Merger Sub), and Legacy GCT, pursuant to a Business Combination Agreement, dated November 2, 2023 (the Business Combination Agreement), by and among Concord III, Merger Sub and Legacy GCT. Pursuant to the terms of the Business Combination Agreement, Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy GCT, with Legacy GCT surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Concord III (the Business Combination). On the Closing Date, Concord III changed its name from Concord III to GCT Semiconductor Holding, Inc. The Business Combination was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization, with Legacy GCT being the accounting acquirer and Concord III being the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. As a result, Legacy GCTs consolidated financial statements for historical periods will be included in GCTs future periodic reports filed with the SEC. The Company received $17.2 million cash proceeds from the Business Combination and private investment from public equity financing (PIPE Financing), net of transaction costs. Total direct and incremental transaction costs of Concord III and Legacy GCT were $22.0 26 Table of Contents million and treated as a reduction of the cash proceeds, of which $8.9 million was deducted from additional paid-in capital for underwriting, accounting, legal and other fees, and the remaining balance of $13.1 million was expensed in the period incurred by Concord III. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our future success and financial performance depend on a number of factors that present significant opportunities for our business but also pose risks and challenges, including those in the section titled Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report. Commercial Deployment of 4G LTE and 5G Market Our business depends upon the continued commercial deployment of 4G and 5G wireless communications equipment, products, and services based on GCTs technology. Deployment of new networks by wireless carriers requires significant capital expenditures well in advance of any revenue from such networks. If the rate of deployment of new networks by wireless carriers is slower than our expectation, this will reduce the sales of its products and could cause OEMs and ODMs to hold excess inventory. This would harm our revenues and our financial results. The worldwide commercial deployment and adoption of the narrow band LTE variants, Cat M and Cat NB, are expected to expand further the markets for Internet of Things devices. If deployments of the Cat M or Cat NB standards are delayed or if competing standards for Internet of Things devices become favored by wireless carriers, we may not be able to successfully increase sales of our Cat M and Cat NB products, which would harm our revenues and financial results. Development of New Products The markets in which we and our customers compete or plan to compete are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, industry standards, and technological obsolescence. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to design, develop, market, and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. A fundamental shift in technologies in any of our target markets, such as the 5G wireless communications markets, could harm our competitive position within these markets. Our failure to anticipate these shifts, develop new technologies, or react to changes in existing technologies could delay our development of new products, which could result in product obsolescence, decreased revenue, and loss of design wins. The success of our new products will depend on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand, customer and consumer requirements, and future technological developments, as well as a variety of specific implementation factors, including: accurate prediction of the size and growth of the 4G and 5G markets; accurate prediction of the growth of the Internet of Things markets and the timing of commercial availability of 4G and 5G networks; accurate prediction of changes in device manufacturer requirements, technology, industry standards or consumer expectations, demands, and preferences; timely and efficient completion of product design and transfer to manufacturing, assembly and test, and securing sufficient manufacturing capacity to allow us to continue to timely and efficiently deliver products to our customers; market acceptance, adequate consumer demand, and commercial production of the products in which our mobile and wireless broadband semiconductor solutions are incorporated; the quality, performance, and reliability of the product as compared to competing products and technologies; effective marketing, sales, and service; and the ability to obtain licenses to use third-party technology to support the development of our products. If we fail to introduce new products that meet the demands of our customers or our target markets, or if we fail to penetrate new markets, our revenue will likely decrease over time, and our financial condition could suffer. Semiconductor and Communications Industry The semiconductor industry has historically exhibited a pattern of cyclicality, which at various times has included significant downturns in customer demand. Cyclical downturns can result in substantial declines in semiconductor demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels, and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Such downturns result from a variety of market forces, including 27 Table of Contents constant and rapid technological change, quick product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Downturns in the semiconductor industry have been attributed to a variety of factors, including the COVID-19 pandemic, ongoing trade disputes between the United States and China, weakness in demand and pricing for semiconductors across applications, and excess inventory. In addition, from the end of 2022, the semiconductor industry experienced a downturn due to inventory corrections and reduced consumer demands. These downturns have directly impacted GCTs business, suppliers, distributors, and end customers. More recently the semiconductor industry has normalized however there have been lingering effects that continue to effect certain segments including that for 4G LTE, where channel inventories continue to exist and where demand has been reduced due to expedited customer transition from 4G LTE to 5G. While we expect a continued recovery of the broader semiconductor markets in the remainder of 2024, there is no guarantee that such recovery will occur or that the extent of recovery will be at a pace as initially anticipated. Because a significant portion of our expenses are fixed in the near term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to reduce our expenses rapidly enough to offset any unanticipated shortfall in revenue. If this situation were to occur, it could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow, and financial condition. In addition, the semiconductor industry has periodically experienced increased demand and production constraints. As a fabless semiconductor company, we rely exclusively on third-party foundries, including certain major semiconductor foundries such as UMC, Alpha and TSMC, for the manufacturing and supplies of its wafers and products. We do not have any formal foundry agreements that guarantee a minimum level of manufacturing capacity. In times of significant increasing demand for capacity, these foundries may experience production shortages and may not allocate sufficient manufacturing capacity to us. If this happens, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of our products to meet the increased demand. Any disruption in our supply chain can make it more difficult for us to obtain sufficient wafer, assembly, and test resources from our subcontract manufacturers. Any factor adversely affecting the semiconductor industry in general, or the particular segments of the industry that our products target, may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and impact our operating results. In addition, a shortage of manufacturing capacity can also impact the product development strategies of our major customers, which may, in turn, affect our business operations. For example, in 2022, the supply shortage caused our largest customer to change its priority on product development from 4G to the next generation of 5G products, which resulted in the reduction of 4G activity and a decline in demand for our products. Our business is expected to increase again with this customer after the launch of 5G products and the recovery of 4G business in 2024 as supply and inventory return to a more normal level. In the past, the wireless communications industry has experienced pronounced downturns, and these cycles may continue in the future. A future decline in global economic conditions could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers or other members of the wireless industry, such as wireless network operators. Inflation, deflation, and economic recessions that adversely affect the global economy and capital markets also adversely affect our customers and our end consumers. For example, our customers ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, obtain financing, and upgrade wireless networks could be adversely affected, which may lead to many networking equipment providers slowing their research and development activities, canceling, or delaying new product development, reducing their inventories, and taking a cautious approach to acquiring our products, which would have a significant negative impact on our business. If this situation were to occur, it could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow, and financial condition. In the future, any of these trends may also cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from year to year, which may increase the volatility of our stock price. Public Company Costs As a result of the Business Combination, we became the successor to an SEC-registered and NYSE-listed company, which requires us to hire additional personnel and implement procedures and processes to address and comply with public company regulatory requirements and customary practices. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional expenses as a public company including directors and officers liability insurance premiums, director fees, and additional internal and external accounting, legal and administrative costs. 28 Table of Contents Key Components of Results of Operations Net Revenues The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue recognized in each case depends on various factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of the underlying performance obligations. Our net revenues are comprised of product and service revenues. Product Revenues Our product sales are generated from the sale of mobile semiconductor products. Product revenues are recognized at a point in time once control has been transferred to a customer, which is generally at the time of shipment. Service Revenues Our service revenues are generated from the sale of mobile semiconductor platform solutions aimed at the 4G LTE and 5G industries, development services, technical advice, and maintenance services. Service revenues are generally recognized over time as the customer obtains control of the promised services. Cost of Net Revenues Our cost of net revenues consists of product and service costs. The cost of product net revenues consists of direct and indirect costs related to the manufacturing of our products. Direct costs include wafer costs and costs of assembly and testing performed by third-party contract manufacturers. Indirect costs consist of provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, royalties, allocated overhead for employee costs and facility costs, warranty, and the amortization of our production mask sets and certain intangible assets. Shipping and handling costs incurred for inventory purchases related to the units sold and costs of product shipments are also recorded in the cost of net product revenues. Service costs consist of non-recurring engineering costs for service projects. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses Our research and development (R&D) expenses consist of costs incurred to develop our products and services. These expenses consist of personnel costs, including salaries, employee benefit costs, and stock-based compensation for employees engaged in R&D activities, software costs, computing costs, hardware and experimental supplies, and expenses for outside engineering consultants. We expense all R&D costs in the periods in which they are incurred. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing (S&M) expenses consist of employee-related expenses, including salaries, commissions, employee benefits costs, and stock-based compensation for all marketing, sales, and sales support employees. S&M expenses also include local and centralized advertising costs and the infrastructure required to support our marketing efforts. We expense S&M costs in the periods in which they are incurred. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative (G&A) expenses consist of various components not related to R&D or S&M, such as personnel costs, regulatory fees, promotion expenses, costs associated with maintaining and filing intellectual property, meals and entertainment expenses, travel expenses, insurance expenses, and other expenditures related to external professional services including legal, engineering, marketing, human resources, audit, and accounting services. Personnel costs include salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. As we continue to grow and expand our workforce and operations, and considering the increased costs associated with operating as a public company, we anticipate that our G&A expenses will increase in the foreseeable future. 29 Table of Contents Gain on Extinguishment of Liability Gain on extinguishment of liability relates to the release by a vendor due to a contract termination during the period of amounts payable by us for research and development services received in prior years. Interest Expense Interest expense primarily consists of interest and amortization of related debt issuance costs related to our borrowings and convertible promissory notes. Other Income (Expenses), Net Other income (expenses), net consists of foreign currency gains and losses, changes in fair value of convertible promissory notes, gains and losses associated with the redemption of convertible notes, and other miscellaneous income and expenses. Results of Operations This section discusses the results of our operations for the periods indicated. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results. For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 The following table sets forth our historical results for the periods indicated and the changes between periods (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 $ change % change Net revenues: Product $ 18 $ 4,042 $ (4,024) (100) % Service 1,450 259 1,191 460 % Total net revenues 1,468 4,301 (2,833) (66) % Cost of net revenues: Product 158 991 (833) (84) % Service 389 479 (90) (19) % Total cost of net revenues 547 1,470 (923) (63) % Gross profit 921 2,831 (1,910) (67) % Operating expenses: Research and development 4,164 3,985 179 4 % Sales and marketing 976 757 219 29 % General and administrative 2,860 2,627 233 9 % Total operating expenses 8,000 7,369 631 9 % Loss from operations (7,079) (4,538) (2,541) 56 % Interest expense (760) (2,723) 1,963 (72) % Other income (expenses), net 6,863 731 6,132 839 % Loss before provision for income taxes (976) (6,530) 5,554 (85) % Provision for income taxes 67 37 30 81 % Net Loss $ (1,043) $ (6,567) $ 5,524 (84) % Net Revenues Net revenues decreased by $2.8 million, or 66%, to $1.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 from $4.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease of $4.0 million in product sales, partially offset by an increase of $1.2 million service revenue. 30 Table of Contents Product sales decreased from $4.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023 to an insignificant amount for the three months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was due to excess LTE channel inventory and our largest customers changing their priorities on product development from 4G to the next generation 5G products during 2023, which resulted in the reduction of 4G activity and decline for demand during the three months ended June 30, 2024. Our net revenues are expected to increase with these customers after the launch of our 5G products. Service revenues increased by $1.2 million, from $0.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023 to $1.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024. This increase was due to a new customer contract. Cost of Net Revenues Cost of net revenues decreased by $0.9 million, or 63%, to $0.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 from $1.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. Product costs decreased by $0.8 million from $1.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023 to $0.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024. The change was primarily driven by a decrease in direct product costs as we sold fewer units. Service costs remained comparable for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023. Our gross margin decreased to 63% for the three months ended June 30, 2024 from 66% for the three months ended June 30, 2023 primarily due to decreased product sales. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased by $0.2 million, or 4%, from $4.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023 to $4.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024. This change was primarily due to a $0.3 million increase in research and development expenses mainly related to services provided by Alpha to design 5G chip products. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased by $0.2 million, or 29%, from $0.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023 to $1.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024. This increase was primarily due to personnel-related costs. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased by $0.2 million, or 9%, from $2.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023 to $2.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024. The change was primarily due to a $1.2 million increase in professional expenses related to the public company operations, partially offset by a net reduction of $0.8 million in provision for credit losses and $0.2 million net reduction in other expenses. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased by $2.0 million, or 72%, from $2.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023 to $0.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to the conversion of significant amounts of outstanding convertible notes upon the closing of the Business Combination. Other Income (Expenses), Net Other income (expenses), net for the three months ended June 30, 2024 of $6.9 million was primarily from the net gain of $6.6 million from the fair value remeasurement of our warrants based on the reduction in our stock price during the second fiscal quarter. Other income (expenses), net for the three months ended June 30, 2023 of $0.7 million was primarily from the fair value measurement of our convertible promissory notes. 31 Table of Contents For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 The following table sets forth our historical results for the periods indicated and the changes between periods (in thousands): Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 $ change % change Net revenues: Product $ 2,396 $ 4,641 $ (2,245) (48) % Service 2,337 2,722 (385) (14) % Total net revenues 4,733 7,363 (2,630) (36) % Cost of net revenues: Product 812 1,969 (1,157) (59) % Service 1,047 1,042 5 % Total cost of net revenues 1,859 3,011 (1,152) (38) % Gross profit 2,874 4,352 (1,478) (34) % Operating expenses: Research and development 9,685 4,887 4,798 98 % Sales and marketing 1,972 1,593 379 24 % General and administrative 5,696 4,104 1,592 39 % Gain on extinguishment of liability (14,636) (14,636) 100 % Total operating expenses 2,717 10,584 (7,867) (74) % Income (loss) from operations 157 (6,232) 6,389 (103) % Interest expense (2,842) (3,658) 816 (22) % Other income (expenses), net 2,525 2,017 508 25 % Loss before provision for income taxes (160) (7,873) 7,713 (98) % Provision for income taxes 126 87 39 45 % Net income (loss) $ (286) $ (7,960) $ 7,674 (96) % Net Revenues Net revenues decreased by $2.6 million, or 36%, from $7.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023 to $4.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $2.2 million in product sales and $0.4 million decrease in service revenues. Product sales decreased by $2.2 million, or 48%, from $4.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023 to $2.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024. This decrease included a net reduction of $1.4 million of LTE product sales and $0.8 million in LTE platform sales. This trend was primarily due to excess LTE channel inventory and the changing priorities of our largest customers that shifted their focus to the next generation 5G products. Our net revenues are expected to increase with these customers after we launch our 5G products. Service revenues decreased by $0.4 million, or 14%, to $2.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 from $2.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to several large projects resulting in $2.5 million of service revenues during the first fiscal quarter of 2023 that did not occur during the first fiscal quarter of 2024. We initiated a large project in the second quarter of 2024 and reduced the gap in service revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. Cost of Net Revenues Cost of net revenues decreased by $1.2 million, or 38%, from $3.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023 to $1.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024, driven primarily by the reduction in our product sales. Product costs decreased by $1.2 million, or 59%, from $2.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023 to $0.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024. This change was driven primarily by the reduction in direct product costs as we sold fewer units. Service costs remained comparable for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and the six months ended June 30, 2023. Our gross margins remained relatively stable at 61% for the six months ended June 30, 2024 compared to 59% for the six months ended June 30, 2023. Our service cost of net revenues remained stable and improved overall margin in spite of the reduction in product sales. 32 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased by $4.8 million, or 98% from $4.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023 to $9.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024, primarily in connection with our development projects. This increase was primarily due to a $2.7 million increase in research and development expenses mainly related to services provided by Alpha to design 5G chip products, and a $2.0 million increase in expensed intellectual property costs related to our new 5G chip products. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased by $0.4 million, or 24%, from $1.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023 to $2.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024. This change was primarily due to increase in personnel related costs. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased by $1.6 million, or 39%, from $4.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023 to $5.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024. The change was primarily due to a $1.2 million increase in stock-based compensation related to the vesting of equity awards with performance conditions met upon the closing of the Business Combination, and a $1.2 million increase in professional expenses related to the public company operations, partially offset by a net decrease of $0.5 million in provision for credit losses. Gain on Extinguishment of Liability Gain on extinguishment of liability was $14.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 due to the release by a vendor of amounts payable by us for research and development services received in prior years. There was no similar transaction that took place during the comparable period of 2023. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased by $0.8 million, or 22%, from $3.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023 to $2.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease of $0.8 million was primarily due to the conversion of significant amounts of outstanding convertible notes upon the closing of the Business Combination. Other Income (Expenses), Net Other income (expenses), net for the six months ended June 30, 2024 of $2.5 million was primarily from the net gain of $2.0 million from fair value remeasurement of our warrants based on the reduction in our stock price during the period then ended. Other income (expenses), net for the six months ended June 30, 2023 of $2.0 million was primarily from the fair value measurement of our convertible promissory notes and foreign currency gains. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed our operations primarily through cash receipts from customers, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, borrowings, issuance of capital stock and the exercise of stock options. With limited exceptions, we have incurred and expect that we will continue to incur significant operating losses. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, we had a net loss of $1.0 million and $0.3 million, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, we had cash used in operating activities of $24.1 million and $6.4 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $549.9 million. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary if we are unable to obtain adequate financing in the future. In March 2024, we received $17.2 million in cash proceeds from the reverse recapitalization and PIPE Financing, net of transaction costs in connection with the closing of the Business Combination. As a result of the cash proceeds received in connection with the Business Combination and other capital resources available to us, including sales of our products and services and the Purchase 33 Table of Contents Agreement discussed below, we believe we have sufficient cash to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months from the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In April 2024, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement (the Purchase Agreement) and a related registration rights agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement) with B. Riley Principal Capital II, LLC (B. Riley). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, we have the right but not the obligation, to sell, from time to time, to B. Riley up to $50.0 million in aggregate gross purchase price of shares of our common stock in our sole discretion, subject to certain conditions and limitations, during the term of 24 months. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company filed a registration statement on Form S-1 to register the resale of shares of common stock to be sold to B. Riley, which became effective on June 6, 2024. Through June 30, 2024, we sold an aggregate of 678,462 shares of our common stock and received net proceeds of $2.8 million under the Purchase Agreement and $0.5 million was withheld by B. Riley against the outstanding amounts payable. As of June 30, 2024, we have outstanding convertible promissory notes and borrowings with a total principal amount of $43.6 million, of which $38.6 million is contractually due within 12 months from this reporting date. During July 2024, we were able to renegotiate the timing of payments for some of the obligations that initially were due in the third fiscal quarter of 2024. However, our existing debt obligations largely remain due within one year from June 30, 2024. We will need to start generating positive cash flows, renegotiate our existing debt obligations and raise additional capital through debt or equity financing. There can be no assurance that such additional debt or equity financing will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. While a portion of the cash proceeds received in connection with the Business Combination was expended to support our 5G activity and fund other operational expenses, we expect that further and significant ongoing operating expenditures will be necessary to successfully implement our business plan and market our products. With the start of manufacturing, shipments and commercialization of our first 5G chipset expected during the first half of 2025, we anticipate significant related expenditures in the form of production-related costs, including mask sets, wafers, and design service fees, and most such costs will be incurred prior to the commencement of manufacturing and production. If we do not have sufficient funds to make such payments, or if we cannot extend the terms of our existing commercial loans or to raise additional capital, the payments can be delayed, which may adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. For a more detailed description of such risks, please see the section entitled Risk Factors disclosed in our Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on April 19, 2024. We intend to mitigate the risk of any working capital deficit by continuing to seek and execute appropriate actions to secure funding as a publicly traded company, including extension and refinancing of existing loans, executing public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and other means. We have historically been able to raise capital through the issuance and sale of equity and equity-linked instruments, such as redeemable convertible preferred stock, convertible promissory notes, and borrowings, although no assurance can be provided that we would continue to be successful in doing so in the future. We expect to use such additional liquidity and the cash and cash equivalents available to us after the Closing to finance the following activities: Cost of mass production of 5G and other products, including masks, wafers and design house fees; Acquisition of IP and tool enhancement to develop next generation of product; Hiring of additional personnel in engineering and sales and marketing functions; and Improvement of engineering equipment. While we believe that we have a reasonable basis for our expectation and we will be available to raise additional funds, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to complete additional financing in a timely manner. In addition, the sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and may include operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot be certain that any financing will be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Should we enter into definitive collaboration and/or joint venture agreements or engage in business combinations in the future, we may be required to seek additional financing. 34 Table of Contents Cash flow Comparison for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 Cash used in operating activities $ (24,062) $ (6,371) Cash used in investing activities (131) (222) Cash provided by financing activities 27,860 6,834 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 110 (380) Net increase (decrease) in cash $ 3,777 $ (139) Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities of $24.1 million during the six months ended June 30, 2024 was primarily attributable to our net loss of $0.3 million, non-cash adjustments of $12.5 million, and net change in our operating assets and liabilities of $11.3 million. Non-cash adjustments consisted primarily of $14.6 million gain from the extinguishment of a liability, $2.0 million gain from the change in fair value of warrant liabilities and $0.5 million change in provision for credit loss, partially offset by $1.5 million in stock-based compensation, $1.2 million loss from the change in fair value of convertible promissory notes, $0.7 million in non-cash expense related to the issuance of common stock to underwriter, $0.6 million loss from the initial recognition of common stock forward liability, $0.4 million in depreciation and amortization charges and $0.3 million in operating lease right-of-use amortization. The change in our operating assets and liabilities of $11.3 million primarily resulted from a decrease of $7.8 million in our accounts payable and accrued and other current liabilities due to the payment of costs incurred related to our Business Combination, an increase of $1.7 million in our prepaid expenses and other current assets related to timing of payments for inventory and manufacturing of wafers, an increase of $1.2 million in our contract assets due to unbilled services provided under certain projects, and an increase of $0.5 million in our inventory due to lower sales. Cash used in operating activities of $6.4 million during the six months ended June 30, 2023 was primarily attributable to our net loss of $8.0 million, partially offset by $0.5 million in non-cash adjustments and $1.1 million change in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash adjustments consisted primarily of $0.8 million net loss from provision for credit losses, $0.4 million in depreciation and amortization charges and $0.4 million in operating lease right-of-use amortization, partially offset by $1.1 million gain from the change in fair value of convertible promissory notes. The change in our operating assets and liabilities of $1.1 million primarily resulted from an increase of $4.3 million in our accounts payable and accrued and other current liabilities related to the timing of payments, partially offset by an increase of $1.9 million in our contract assets due to unbilled services provided under certain projects, a decrease of $0.6 million in our contract liabilities due to the provision of our services under certain projects, an increase of $0.5 million in accounts receivable primarily due to slower collections from certain customers, and an increase of $0.2 million in inventory due to lower sales. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 was related solely to the purchases of property and equipment. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities of $27.9 million during the six months ended June 30, 2024 consisted of $17.2 million from proceeds received from the reverse recapitalization and PIPE Financing, net of transaction costs, $16.3 million in proceeds from the issuance of convertible promissory notes and $2.8 million proceeds received from issuance of common stock to B. Riley under the Purchase Agreement, partially offset by $7.9 million repayment of our bank borrowings and $0.6 million repayment of convertible promissory notes. Cash provided by financing activities of $6.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2023 primarily related to net proceeds from bank borrowings. 35 Table of Contents Commitments and Contractual Obligations We have material commitments and contractual obligations, including leases, purchase commitments, and research and development agreements. We have various operating leases, under which we lease office equipment and office space. The operating leases have various expiration dates through 2026. We have certain commitments for outstanding purchase orders related to the manufacture of certain wafers utilized by the Company and other services, and we have entered into a material research and development agreement. See Note 8 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q for more information regarding our additional commitments and contractual obligations. We have certain debt agreements in place related to convertible promissory notes and borrowings. See Note 7, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q for more information regarding our debt arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making those estimates, and any such differences may be material. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates from those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies, and Significant Judgements and Estimates disclosed in our Form 8-K filing with the SEC on April 1, 2024, except that from the Closing we have certain contracts in our own equity that are subject to liability classification and remeasurement each reporting periods. Revenue Recognition Our revenues are generated by the sale of mobile semiconductor solutions consisting of products and platform solutions aimed at the LTE and 5G industries, development services, and technical advice and maintenance services. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue recognized in each case depends on various factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of the underlying performance obligations. Revenues from sales of our products are recognized upon transfer of control to the customer, which is generally at the time of shipment. Service revenues from development services, technical advice, and maintenance services are generally recognized over time as these performance obligations are satisfied. We make estimates of potential future returns and sales allowances related to current period product revenue. We analyze historical return rates and changes in customer demand when evaluating the adequacy of returns and sales allowances. Although we believe we have a reasonable basis for our estimates, such estimates may differ from actual returns and sales allowances. These differences may materially impact reported net product revenues and amounts ultimately collected on accounts receivable. Provision for Credit Losses Accounts receivable balances are primarily derived from revenues earned from customers located in the United States, China, South Korea, Japan, and Taiwan. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of the financial conditions of our customers and distributors, and generally do not require collateral from our customers. We continuously monitor collections and payments from customers and maintain a provision for credit losses based upon the collectability of our customer accounts. We review the provision by considering certain factors such as historical experience, industry data, credit quality, age of balances and current economic conditions that may affect a customers ability to pay. Uncollectible receivables are written off when all efforts to collect have been exhausted and recoveries are recognized when they are recovered. While such credit losses have historically been minimal, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we had in the past. A significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of our 36 Table of Contents significant customers could have a material adverse effect on the collectability of our accounts receivable and our future operating results. The provision for credit losses was $1.1 million and $1.6 million as of June 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. Fair Value of Convertible Promissory Notes We have made an election to account for our convertible promissory notes under the fair value option, the convertible promissory notes are recorded at their initial fair value on the date of issuance and then are adjusted to fair value upon any modification and at each balance sheet date thereafter. Changes in the estimated fair value of the convertible promissory notes are recognized as non-cash gains or losses in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations within other income (expenses), net. Our convertible promissory notes are valued using a discounted cash flow (DCF) model or binomial lattice model (BLM), and, prior to the Business Combination, were valued using a combination of an option pricing model and Probability-Weighted Expected Return Method (PWERM), which are a Level 3 fair value measurements. Significant assumptions used in the DCF include the remaining term and discount rate. Significant assumptions used in the BLM include volatility, remaining term, risk-free rate, and credit spread. The PWERM is a scenario-based methodology that estimates the fair value based using an analysis of future values for the Company that assumes various outcomes. The value is based on the probability-weighted present value of expected future investment returns considering each of the possible outcomes available. The future value under each outcome is discounted back to the valuation date at an appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate and probability-weighted to arrive at an indication of value. Significant assumptions used in the PWERM include volatility, discount rate, and the probability of a future liquidity event. Contracts in Own Equity Fair Value of Warrants We classify contracts in equity, including warrants to purchase shares of the Companys common stock, that do not meet the indexation guidance as liabilities. At the end of each reporting period, these liability-classified instruments are remeasured using an option pricing model or BLM. Significant assumptions are used in determining the fair value of our warrants and include volatility and the risk-free rate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included herein for more information about recent accounting pronouncements, the timing of their adoption, and our assessment, to the extent we have made one yet, of their potential impact on our financial condition and results of operations. JOBS Act Accounting and Smaller Reporting Company Elections We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act until those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to use this extended transition period for complying with certain new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements may or may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public companies effective dates. We are also a smaller reporting company, as defined in the Exchange Act. We may continue to be a smaller reporting company even after we are no longer an emerging growth company. We have elected to take advantage of certain of the scaled disclosures available to smaller reporting companies, and will be able to take advantage of these scaled disclosures for so long as the market value of our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates is less than $250.0 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter, or our annual revenue is less than $100.0 million during the most recently completed fiscal year and the market value of our voting and non-voting common stock held by non- affiliates is less than $700.0 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter. 37 Table of Contents