Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Concord Acquisition Corp III. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, references to the Sponsors refer to Concord Sponsor Group III LLC and CA2 Co-Investment, LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, the business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, and the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on the Companys search for a Business Combination (as defined below), are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Companys annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on February 18, 2021 as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of our initial public offering and the sale of the private placement warrants, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. In April 2023, the Company and the Sponsor entered into Non-Redemption Agreements with a number of the Company's stockholders in exchange for them agreeing not to redeem shares of the Company's Class A common stock sold in the IPO (the "Non-Redeemed Shares") in connection with the special meeting of stockholders called by the Company and held on May 4, 2023 (described below). In exchange for the foregoing commitments not to redeem such shares, the Sponsor has agreed to transfer to such stockholders an aggregate of 999,665 shares of the Company's Class B common stock (the "Class B shares"), par value $0.0001 per share, held by the Sponsor immediately following consummation of an initial business combination. On May 4, 2023, the Companys stockholders approved at the special meeting of stockholders a proposal to amend the Companys amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the charter) to extend the date by which the Company has to consummate a business combination from May 8, 2023 (the Termination Date) to November 8, 2023, or such earlier date as may be determined by the board of directors of the Company (such later date, the Extended Date) In connection with the votes to approve the Charter Amendment, the holders of 30,460,066 shares of Class A common stock of the Company properly exercised their right to redeem their shares for cash at a redemption price of approximately $10.42 per share, for an aggregate redemption amount of approximately $317,000,000, leaving approximately $42,000,000 in the Trust Account. 23 Table of Contents Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities since inception have been organizational activities and those necessary for our initial public offering (IPO) and activities related to seeking and consummating an acquisition target. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial business combination. Until such time that a business combination occurs, we will generate non-operating income in the form of investment income on cash and cash equivalents in the form of specified U.S. government treasury bills or specified money market funds after the IPO and non-operating income or expense from the changes in the fair value of warrant liabilities and Sponsor loans. There has been no significant change in our financial or trading position and no material adverse change has occurred since the date of our audited financial statements. Until the completion of our initial business combination, we expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended June 30, 2023, we had net loss of $26,989 which consisted of operating costs of $2,962,231 and income taxes of $400,600, partially offset by a change in the fair value of the warrant liability and sponsor loans of $1,378,500, income from investments held in Trust Account of $1,955,134 and income from operating bank account of $2,208. For the three months ended June 30, 2022, we had net income of $7,379,953 which consisted of operating costs of $282,565 and income taxes of $57,969 offset by the change in the fair value of the warrant liability and sponsor loans of $7,301,500 and income from investments held in the Trust Account of $418,987. For the six months ended June 30, 2023, we had net income of $1,870,068 which consisted of a change in the fair value of the warrant liability and sponsor loans of $606,200, income from investments held in Trust Account of $5,734,105 and income from operating bank account of $2,208, partially offset by operating costs of $3,288,761 and income taxes of $1,183,684. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, we had net income of $15,556,968 which consisted of operating costs of $609,220 and income taxes of $57,969 offset by the change in the fair value of the warrant liability and sponsor loans of $15,696,000 and income from investments held in Trust Account of $528,157. Liquidity and Capital Resources Until the consummation of the IPO, as described below, our only source of liquidity was an initial purchase of ordinary shares by the sponsors and loans from our Sponsor. The Company also executed promissory notes with the Sponsors (the Sponsors Loans), evidencing loans to the Company in the aggregate amount of $6,900,000. The Sponsor Loans shall be repaid or converted into warrants (Sponsor Loan Warrants) at a conversion price of $1.00 per warrant, at the Sponsors discretion. The Sponsor Loan Warrants will be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. As of June 30, 2023, we had available to us $699,150 of cash held outside the Trust Account (which included approximately $600,000 of cash withdrawn by the Company from the Trust Account to pay taxes yet to be paid and excluding excise taxes). We will use these funds primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, structure, negotiate and complete a business combination, and to pay taxes to the extent the interest earned on the Trust Account is not sufficient to pay our taxes. If the estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, the Company may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to a Business Combination. Moreover, the Company may need to obtain additional financing either to complete a Business Combination or because the Company becomes obligated to redeem a significant number of public shares upon consummation of a Business Combination, in which case the Company may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, the Company would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of a Business Combination. If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination because it does not have sufficient funds available, the Company will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following a Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, the Company may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet its obligations. 24 Table of Contents The Company has until the Extended Date to consummate a Business Combination. If a Business Combination is not consummated by this date and any additional extension(s) are not obtained, there will be a mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution of the Company. Although the Company intends to consummate a Business Combination on or before the Extended Date, it is uncertain whether the Company will be able to consummate a Business Combination by this time. In connection with the Companys assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with ASC Subtopic 205-40, Presentation of Financial Statements Going Concern, Management has determined that the mandatory liquidation, should a Business Combination not occur, and an additional extension is not obtained, and potential subsequent dissolution, as well as the potential for the Company to have insufficient funds available to operate its business prior to a Business Combination, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts and classification of assets or liabilities should the Company be required to liquidate after the Extended Date. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements; Commitments and Contractual Obligations We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of June 30, 2023. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $20,000 for office space, administrative and support services. We began incurring these fees on November 3, 2021 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of our initial Business Combination and our liquidation. Further, on May 3, 2022, the Sponsor agreed to loan the Company up to $350,000 to be used to pay operating expenses. This loan is non-interest bearing, unsecured, is not convertible into warrants or any other securities, and due at the closing of a business combination. The Company had not borrowed any amount under the promissory note. There was no balance outstanding as of both June 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022. Additionally, our underwriters are entitled to a deferred underwriting discount of $12,075,000 of the gross proceeds of the IPO held in the Trust Account upon the completion of the Companys initial Business Combination subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. On March 29, 2023, the Company engaged a capital markets advisor in connection with seeking an extension for completing a business combination, a possible acquisition of a third party by merger, consolidation, acquisition of stock or assets or other business combination, and as a placement agent in connection with a private placement of debt, equity, equity-linked or convertible securities. The Company agreed to pay the capital markets advisor a transaction fee in connection with the services provided, payable upon and subject to the Companys consummation of an initial business combination. The fee consists of a fixed and determinable portion and a variable portion contingent upon certain future events expected to take place upon completion of a business combination. As of June 30, 2023, $2,500,000 was accrued for the fee as the amount was fixed and determinable. These costs may be paid for using the proceeds of the cash available once a business combination is complete. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates We prepare our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in our financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, on file with the SEC, except as noted below: 25 Table of Contents Non-Redemption Agreements In April 2023, the Sponsor and certain investors (Investors) of the Companys Class A common stock entered into Non-Redemption Agreements. The Non-Redemption Agreements provide for the assignment of economic interest of an aggregate of 999,665 shares of Class B common stock of the Company held by the Sponsor to the Investors in exchange for such Investors agreeing to hold and not redeem their Class A common stock at the special meeting of stockholders held on May 4, 2023. Pursuant to the Non-Redemption Agreements, the Sponsor has agreed to transfer to such Investors an aggregate of 999,665 Class B common stock upon the consummation of an initial Business Combination. The Company estimated the aggregate fair value of the shares attributable to the Investors to be $884,554 or $0.88 per share. The Company complies with the requirements of SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) Topic 5(A) Expenses of Offering and SAB Topic 5(T): Miscellaneous Accounting - Accounting for Expenses or Liabilities Paid by Principal Stockholder(s). As such, the value of the Class B common stock assigned to the Investors are recognized as offering costs and charged to shareholders deficit. The value of the Class B common stock contributed by the Sponsors is reported as an increase to shareholders deficit.