Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements include references to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, as well as statements including words such as expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, projects, and similar expressions. In addition, projections of our future financial performance, anticipated growth and trends in our businesses and in our industries, the anticipated impacts of acquisitions, and of our restructurings, our intent to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future, the actions we intend to take as part of our new strategy, the expected impact of our new strategy and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions, based on our current expectations about future events and may not prove to be accurate. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Risk Factors, set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and in Part II Item 1A, of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. We encourage you to read those sections carefully. OVERVIEW Our business Symantec Corporation is a global leader in cybersecurity. We operate our business on a global civilian cyber intelligence threat network and track a vast number of threats across the Internet from hundreds of millions of mobile devices, endpoints, and servers across the globe. We believe one of our competitive advantages is our database of threat indicators. This database allows us to reduce the number of false positives and provide faster and better protection for customers through our products. We are leveraging our capabilities to deliver integrated platforms for customers. We are also pioneering solutions in markets such as cloud security, digital safety, advanced threat protection, identity protection, information protection and cyber security services. 17 Table of Contents Fiscal calendar We have a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31. The three months ended June 30, 2017 (Q1FY18) and July 1, 2016 (Q1FY17), both consisted of 13 weeks. Our 2018 fiscal year consists of 52 weeks and ends on March 30, 2018 . Strategy Our strategy is to deliver comprehensive cyber security platforms for both enterprises and consumers. Our enterprise security strategy is to deliver an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform that allows Symantec products to share threat intelligence and improve security outcomes for customers across all control points. Symantec is the leading vendor in protecting users, information, web and messaging across an integrated platform. Our consumer digital safety strategy is to deliver the most comprehensive consumer digital safety solutions to help people protect their information, identities, devices and families. Our financial highlights and results of operations Our financial highlights and results of operations discuss our business and overall analysis of financial and other highlights affecting the company and analyze our financial results comparing Q1FY18 to Q1FY17. This interim Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with the MD&A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 . The results of our former information management business (Veritas) are presented as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and thus have been excluded from continuing operations and segment results for all reported periods. The following discussion relates to our current segment reporting structure and our continuing operations unless stated otherwise. Our operating segments Our operating segments are significant strategic business units that offer different products and services distinguished by customer needs. Our operating segments are: Enterprise Security and Consumer Digital Safety. Enterprise Security. Our Enterprise Security segment protects organizations so they can securely conduct business while leveraging new platforms and data. Our Enterprise Security segment includes our endpoint protection products, endpoint management, messaging protection products, information protection products, cyber security services, website security and advanced web and cloud security offerings. Our enterprise endpoint and network security and management offerings support evolving endpoints and networks, providing advanced threat protection while helping reduce cost and complexity. These solutions are delivered through various methods, such as software, appliance, Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and managed services. Consumer Digital Safety . Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers. This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services. Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact. With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety platform designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers digital lives. For further description of our operating segments see Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 18 Table of Contents Financial highlights and business trends The following charts provide an overview of key financial metrics in millions, except for percentage of revenues. Here are our key financial results for continuing operations: Revenue increased by 33% , driven by a 34% and 31% increase in revenue from our Enterprise Security and Consumer Digital Safety segments, respectively, primarily due to the acquisitions of Blue Coat, Inc. (Blue Coat) and LifeLock, Inc. (LifeLock). Our gross margin decreased five percentage points primarily due to $53 million of revenue we excluded as a result of the revaluations of LifeLock and Blue Coat deferred revenue to fair value at the time of the acquisitions and increased amortization expense of $49 million primarily related to the acquired Blue Coat and LifeLock intangible assets. Our operating margin decreased sixteen percentage points primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense and amortization of intangible assets of $95 million and $45 million , respectively. These increases were due in large part to the assumption of equity awards and amortization of intangible assets acquired in connection with the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions. Cash paid for income taxes decreased $914 million , primarily due to the one-time payment during Q1FY17 related to the gain on sale from the divestiture of Veritas during fiscal 2016. During Q1FY18, we repaid debt totaling $2.0 billion as part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet. We expect our operating margin to fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including our operating results and the timing and amount of expenses incurred. 19 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Segment operating results Enterprise Security Segment Our Enterprise Security segment protects organizations so they can securely conduct business while leveraging new platforms and data. The following tables are in millions except for percentage of revenues. Revenue increased $165 million , or 34% primarily due to revenue from sales of Blue Coat network protection products, which were absent in Q1FY17. Due to the revaluation of deferred revenue to the fair value at the time we acquired Blue Coat, we excluded $23 million of revenue we otherwise would have recognized in Q1FY18. Operating income increased $66 million , or 236% , primarily due to the contribution of the Blue Coat acquisition and a reduction in expenses from ongoing cost savings initiatives. Consumer Digital Safety Segment Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses making it simple for customers to be productive and protected at home and at work. The following tables are in millions except for percentage of revenues. Revenue increased $126 million , or 31% , primarily due to revenue from sales of LifeLock products, which were absent in Q1FY17. Due to the revaluation of deferred revenue to fair value at the time we acquired LifeLock, we excluded $30 million of revenue we otherwise would have recognized in Q1FY18. While the trend of declining revenues from sales of Norton-branded products continued in Q1FY18, we continued to benefit from the shift to subscription-based contracts and combined packaging of consumer products, resulting in a lower decline in Q1FY18 as compared to Q1FY17. Our operating income remained relatively flat due to a relatively lower operating margin from LifeLock products. 20 Table of Contents Net revenues by geographic region Revenue by country as presented below is based on the billing location of the customer. Total: $ 884 million Total: $ 1,175 million Note: Americas include U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan. Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies unfavorably impacted our international revenue by approximately $11 million for Q1FY18 as compared to Q1FY17. Our percentage of revenues from the Americas increased primarily as a result of LifeLock sales which are entirely U.S. based. Our international sales are expected to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. As a result, we expect revenue to continue to be affected by foreign currency exchange rates as compared to the U.S. dollar. We are unable to predict the extent to which revenue in future periods will be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If international sales become a greater portion of our total sales in the future, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may have a potentially greater impact on our revenue and operating results. Cost of revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of technical support costs, costs of billable services, fees to original equipment manufacturers under revenue-sharing agreements, hardware costs, and fulfillment costs, as well as intangible asset amortization expense, and is presented below in millions except for percentage of revenues. Our cost of revenues increased $108 million primarily due to costs related to sales of the acquired Blue Coat and LifeLock products, including $49 million of increased amortization expense primarily related to the acquired Blue Coat and LifeLock intangible assets. 21 Table of Contents Operating expenses The following charts are in millions except for percentage of revenues. In general, our operating expenses increased in Q1FY18 compared to Q1FY17 as a result of increased headcount and facility costs associated with the acquisitions of Blue Coat and LifeLock during fiscal 2017. Sales and marketing expense increased $142 million primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, which included increases of $64 million of advertising and promotional expense, largely related to LifeLock, and $29 million of stock-based compensation expense. These increases were partially offset by a reduction of expenses from ongoing cost savings initiatives. Research and development expense increased $63 million primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, which included an increase of $26 million of stock-based compensation expense. These increases were partially offset by a reduction of expenses from ongoing cost savings initiatives. General and administrative expense increased $65 million primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, which included an increase of $40 million of stock-based compensation expense. These increases were partially offset by a reduction of expenses from ongoing cost savings initiatives. Our stock-based compensation expense included in operating expenses increased $95 million , primarily due to the equity awards assumed in the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions and the expected level of achievement for performance-based restricted stock units (PRUs). Our stock-based compensation expense will continue to fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors including the achievement levels of PRU performance conditions. Amortization of intangible assets increased $45 million primarily due to the intangible assets acquired in the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions. Restructuring, transition and other We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements. We expect to reduce headcount and close certain facilities in connection with the restructuring plan. These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2018. On an annual basis, we expect this restructuring plan to generate net cost efficiencies and cost synergies which, when completed, will favorably impact our continuing operating expenses under our 22 Table of Contents commitment to realize cost savings of $580 million, including cost synergies from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions. In connection with this restructuring plan, we expect to incur approximately $195 million to $245 million in expenses in the remaining quarters of fiscal 2018. Additionally, we expect continuing significant transition costs associated with the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system and costs to automate business processes. See Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our restructuring, transition and other costs. Non-operating expense , net The following charts are in millions. Non-operating expense , net, increased $81 million primarily driven by an increase in interest expense of $57 million , mainly related to our increased borrowings subsequent to Q1FY17. See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our debt. In addition, non-operating expense, net, further increased by $15 million resulting from a net foreign currency remeasurement loss for Q1FY18 compared to a net gain for Q1FY17. Provision for income taxes The following charts are in millions except for percentages. Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for Q1FY18 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, the research and development tax credit, and excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation as a result of the new accounting guidance, partially offset by permanent differences. Our effective tax rate for income from continuing operations for Q1FY17 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, domestic manufacturing incentives and the research and development tax credit, partially offset by state income taxes. For the three months ended June 30, 2017, we recorded income tax expense on discontinued operations of $41 million. For the three months ended July 1, 2016, we recorded income tax expense on discontinued operations of $16 million. See Note 12 for further details regarding discontinued operations. 23 Table of Contents We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and international tax jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our international earnings were generated from subsidiaries organized in Ireland and Singapore. Our results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent that our geographical mix of income becomes more weighted toward jurisdictions with higher tax rates and would be favorably affected to the extent the relative geographic mix shifts to lower tax jurisdictions. Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year. Although potential resolution of uncertain tax positions involve multiple tax periods and jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to these audits could decrease, whether by payment, release, or a combination of both, in the next 12 months by $12 million, which could reduce our income tax provision and therefore benefit the resulting effective tax rate. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing income tax controversies and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Sources and uses of cash We have historically relied on cash flow from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt and equity securities, and the sale of a business, for our liquidity needs. As of June 30, 2017 , we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.3 billion , of which $8 million is included in our other current assets. We also have an unused credit facility of $1.0 billion resulting in a liquidity position of approximately $3.3 billion . As of June 30, 2017 , $1.5 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were held by our foreign subsidiaries. We have provided U.S. deferred taxes on a portion of our undistributed foreign earnings sufficient to address the incremental U.S. tax that would be due if we needed such portion of these funds to support our operations in the U.S. Our principal cash requirements primarily consist of acquisitions, operating expenses and working capital, payment of taxes, capital expenditures, payment of principal and interest on debt, and restructuring, transition and integration costs. Also, we may engage, from time to time, in the open market purchase of our notes prior to their maturity. Furthermore, our capital allocation strategy contemplates a quarterly cash dividend. In addition, we regularly evaluate our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. Cash flows The following charts summarize cash provided by (used in) our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for Q1FY17 and Q1FY18, in millions. Continuing operating activities Our primary source of cash from continuing operating activities has been from cash collections from our customers. Due to seasonality, our orders are generally higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our first and second fiscal quarters. We therefore expect cash inflows from continuing operating activities to be affected by fluctuations in billings and timing of collections. Our primary uses of cash from our continuing operating activities include payments for income taxes, payments for compensation and related costs, payments to our resellers and distribution partners, and other general corporate expenditures. The change in cash from continuing operating activities in Q1FY18 compared to Q1FY17 was primarily due to decreased tax payments of $914 million related to income taxes paid in Q1FY17 and increased changes in working capital in Q1FY18, partially offset by lower income from continuing operations, adjusted for non-cash items. 24 Table of Contents Restructuring Plan. We initiated a restructuring plan in Q1FY17 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements. We expect to reduce headcount and close certain facilities in connection with this restructuring plan. The total remaining cash payments in connection with the restructuring plan are expected to be approximately $235 million to $270 million. These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2018. See Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our restructuring plans. Continuing investing activities Our investing cash flows consist primarily of capital expenditures and investment purchases and proceeds. The change in continuing investing activities in Q1FY18 compared to Q1FY17 was primarily due to reduced proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $30 million and increased additions to property and equipment of $25 million. Short-term investments. In order to achieve greater investment diversification and higher yields while maintaining our objectives of preservation of capital, liquidity, and safety, we plan to maintain our increased holdings of short-term investments. Fireglass and Skycure acquisitions. In June 2017 and July 2017, we entered into definitive agreements to acquire Fireglass, Ltd. (Fireglass) and Skycure, Ltd. (Skycure), respectively. Both acquisitions closed in July 2017, subsequent to Q1FY18. The consideration for the acquisitions of Fireglass and Skycure was approximately $225 million and $205 million, respectively, and primarily consisted of cash. Sale of Website Security business. On August 2, 2017, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our website security and related public key infrastructure products to Thoma Bravo, LLCs portfolio company DigiCert, Inc. (DigiCert). We expect to receive approximately $950 million in upfront cash proceeds and approximately a 30% equity interest in the common stock of the DigiCert business. The sale is expected to close in our third quarter of fiscal 2018, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. The transaction proceeds, net of expected taxes and expenses, are expected to be used to repay debt . Continuing financing activities Our financing cash flows consist primarily of issuances and repayments of debt, payment of dividends and dividend equivalents to stockholders, and tax payments related to the settlement of restricted stock units (RSUs). The change in continuing financing activities in Q1FY18 compared to Q1FY17 was primarily due to increased repayments on debt of $2.0 billion, reduced borrowings of $994 million and increased tax payments related to the settlement of RSUs of $37 million. Borrowings. Proceeds from and repayments of borrowings fluctuate from year to year based on the amounts paid to fund acquisitions, and debt repayments. The charts below set forth total debt issued, repaid and the amount of unused credit facility for Q1FY17 and Q1FY18, in millions. As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time in the future make optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors, such as market conditions. Interest payments on $2.3 billion of our variable-rate borrowings are subject to change based on market interest rates. See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our debt repayments and borrowings. Dividends. On August 2, 2017 , we declared a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid on September 13, 2017 , to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 21, 2017 . All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all shares of unvested restricted stock and performance-based stock as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively. Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board. See Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our share repurchases and dividends and dividend equivalents. 25 Table of Contents Contractual obligations Except for the repayment of our Senior Notes, settlement of our Senior Term Facility, and related interest payments on borrowings, there were no significant changes during the three months ended June 30, 2017 to the contractual obligations disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, set forth in Part II, Item 7, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 . The table below sets forth these changes as of June 30, 2017 , but does not update the other line items in the contractual obligations table that appear in the section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K described above: Payments Due by Fiscal Period (In millions) Total Remainder of 2018 2019 - 2020 2021 - 2022 Thereafter Debt (1) $ 6,300 $ $ 1,800 $ 3,000 $ 1,500 Interest payments on debt (2) 968 156 382 230 200 Total $ 7,268 $ 156 $ 2,182 $ 3,230 $ 1,700 (1) See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our debt. (2) Interest payments were calculated based on the contractual terms of the related Senior Notes, Convertible Senior Notes and Senior Term Facilities. Interest on variable rate debt was calculated using the interest rate in effect as of June 30, 2017 . See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Senior Notes, Convertible Senior Notes and Senior Term Facilities. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers. It is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements and we have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the sale of Veritas, we assigned several leases to Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries. As a condition to consenting to the assignments, certain lessors required us to agree to indemnify the lessor under the applicable lease with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries breach of payment obligations under the terms of the lease. As with our other indemnification obligations discussed above and in general, it is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As with our other indemnification obligations, such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses and to date, generally under our real estate obligations, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations under our leases and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We provide limited product warranties and the majority of our software license agreements contain provisions that indemnify licensees of our software from damages and costs resulting from claims alleging that our software infringes on the intellectual property rights of a third party. Historically, payments made under these provisions have been immaterial. We monitor the conditions that are subject to indemnification to identify if a loss has occurred. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the three months ended June 30, 2017 , as compared to those disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 . Recently issued authoritative guidance not yet adopted Revenue Recognition - Contracts with Customers. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new authoritative guidance for revenue from contracts with customers. The standards core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies will need to use more 26 Table of Contents judgment and make more estimates than under current guidance. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. In March 2016, the FASB clarified implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. In April 2016, the FASB issued guidance related to identifying performance obligations and licensing which reduces the cost and complexity of applying certain aspects of the guidance both at implementation and on an ongoing basis. The new guidance may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented (retrospective) or retrospectively with cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings as of the date of adoption (modified retrospective). We expect to adopt the new standard on a modified retrospective basis in our first quarter of fiscal 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Instruments - Recognition and Measurement. In January 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on financial instruments. The new guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure. The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted under limited circumstances but we do not intend to adopt the provisions of the new guidance early. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020. Early adoption is permitted but we do not plan to adopt the provisions of the new guidance early. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Credit Losses. In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking expected loss model. Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory. In October 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers, excluding inventory, at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under current U.S. GAAP. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2019, and requires a modified retrospective transition method. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance and anticipate it will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.