Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsRevenue and Note 6, " Business Segments," in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Long-Term Care Services Segment Skilled Nursing Facilities As of December 31, 2012 , our skilled nursing companies provided skilled nursing care at 74 regionally clustered facilities, having 9,181 licensed beds, in California, Texas, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada and New Mexico. We have developed programs for, and actively market our services to, high-acuity patients who are typically admitted to our facilities as they recover from strokes, other neurological conditions, cardiovascular and respiratory ailments, joint replacements and other muscular or skeletal disorders. As of December 31, 2012 , we employed approximately 10,055 active employees in our skilled nursing business. We use interdisciplinary teams of experienced medical professionals, including therapists, to provide services prescribed by physicians. These teams include registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, certified nursing assistants and other professionals who provide individualized comprehensive nursing care 24 hours a day. Many of our skilled nursing facilities are equipped to provide specialty care, such as chemotherapy, enteral/parenteral nutrition, tracheotomy care and ventilator care. We also provide standard services to each of our skilled nursing patients, including room and board, special nutritional programs, social services, recreational activities and related healthcare and other services. 1 Table of Contents Our Express Recovery program uses a dedicated unit within a skilled nursing facility to deliver a comprehensive rehabilitation regimen in accommodations specifically designed to serve high-acuity patients. Each Express Recovery unit can typically be entered without using the main facility entrance, permitting residents to bypass portions of the facility dedicated to the traditional nursing home patient. Each Express Recovery unit typically has 12 to 36 beds and provides skilled nursing care and rehabilitation therapy for patients recovering from conditions such as joint replacement surgery, and cardiac and respiratory ailments. We believe that having an Express Recovery unit at a facility enables the facility to more effectively attract higher acuity patients and achieve a higher skilled mix than it would be able to without the unit, which in turn results in higher reimbursement rates. Skilled mix is the average daily number of Medicare and managed care patients we serve at our skilled nursing facilities divided by the average daily number of total patients we serve at our skilled nursing facilities. As of December 31, 2012 , we operated 63 Express Recovery units with 2,259 beds. We have substantially completed the build out of our Express Recovery units at our skilled nursing facilities. We will continue to add and modify Express Recovery units in the future as warranted. Our administrative service company provides a full complement of administrative and consultative services that allows our affiliated operators and unaffiliated third-party operators with whom we contract to better focus on delivery of healthcare services. We currently have one such service agreement with an unaffiliated facility operator. The income associated with the services our administrative service company provides to the third-party facility operator is included in LTC in our segment reporting as services are performed primarily by personnel supporting the LTC segment. Each of our facilities operates as a distinct company to better focus on service delivery and is supported by the administrative service company for efficient delivery of non-healthcare support services. Assisted Living Facilities We complement our skilled nursing care business by providing assisted living services at 22 facilities with 1,228 beds as of December 31, 2012 . Our assisted living companies, which are mostly in Kansas, provide residential accommodations, activities, meals, security, housekeeping and assistance in the activities of daily living to seniors who are independent or who require some support, but not the level of nursing care provided in a skilled nursing facility. Our independent living units are non-licensed independent living apartments in which residents are independent and require no support with the activities of daily living. As of December 31, 2012 , we employed approximately 609 active employees in our assisted and independent living businesses. Equity Investment in Pharmacy Joint Venture We have a 50% equity interest in APS - Summit Care Pharmacy, LLC, or APS - Summit Care, which is a joint venture that serves the pharmaceutical needs of a limited number of our Texas operations, as well as a number of other unaffiliated customers. The remaining 50% equity interest in APS - Summit Care is owned by an unaffiliated third party. APS - Summit Care operates a pharmacy in Austin, Texas, through which we pay market value for prescription drugs and receive a 50% share of the net income related to the joint venture. Therapy Services Segment Rehabilitation Therapy Services As of December 31, 2012 , we provided rehabilitation therapy services to a total of 195 healthcare facilities, including 64 facilities owned by us. In addition, we have contracts to manage the rehabilitation therapy services for our 10 healthcare facilities in New Mexico. We provide rehabilitation therapy services at our skilled nursing facilities as part of an integrated service offering in connection with our skilled nursing care. We believe that an integrated approach to treating high-acuity patients enhances our ability to achieve successful patient outcomes and enables us to identify and treat patients who can benefit from our rehabilitation therapy services. We believe hospitals and physician groups often refer high-acuity patients to our skilled nursing facilities because they recognize the value of an integrated approach to providing skilled nursing care and rehabilitation therapy services. We believe that we have also established a strong reputation as a premium provider of rehabilitation therapy services to third-party skilled nursing operators in our local markets, with a recognized ability to provide these services to high-acuity patients. Our approach to providing rehabilitation therapy services for third-party operators emphasizes high-quality treatment and successful clinical outcomes. As of December 31, 2012 , we employed approximately 2,832 active employees (primarily therapists) in our rehabilitation therapy business. Hospice and Home Health Services Segment Hospice Care As of December 31, 2012 , we provided hospice care services in Arizona, California, Nevada, Idaho, Montana, and New Mexico. Hospice services focus on the physical, spiritual and psychosocial needs of terminally ill individuals and their 2 Table of Contents families, and consist primarily of palliative and clinical care, education and counseling. As of December 31, 2012 , we employed approximately 898 active employees in our hospice services business. Home Health As of December 31, 2012 , we provided home health care services in Arizona, California, Nevada, Idaho, Montana and New Mexico. Our home health care services generally consist of providing some combination of the services of registered nurses, speech, occupational and physical therapists, medical social workers and certified home health aides. Home health care is often a cost-effective solution for patients, and can also increase their quality of life and allow them to receive quality medical care in the comfort and convenience of a familiar setting. As of December 31, 2012 , we employed approximately 593 active employees in our home health business. Revenue Sources Within our skilled nursing facilities, we generate our revenue from Medicare, Medicaid, managed care providers, insurers, private pay and other sources. Within our assisted living facilities, we generate revenue primarily from private pay sources, with a small portion earned from Medicaid or other state-specific programs. With respect to our rehabilitation therapy services business, it receives payment from the third-party facilities that it serves based on negotiated patient per diem rates or a negotiated fee schedule based on the type of services rendered. Our rehabilitation therapy business also similarly negotiates rates and fees with our affiliated facilities that it services, but the revenue it generates from those facilities is included in our revenue from our skilled nursing facilities. We derive substantially all of the revenue from our hospice business from Medicare and managed care reimbursement. We derive the majority of our revenue from our home health business from Medicare and managed care. For additional information regarding the revenue we generate by service offering, our revenue sources, and regulatory and other governmental actions affecting revenue, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Revenue Sources." Industry Trends Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement Rising healthcare costs due to a variety of factors, including an aging population and increasing life expectancies, has in recent years increased demand for post-acute healthcare services, such as skilled nursing, assisted living, home health care, hospice care and rehabilitation therapy. In an effort to mitigate the cost of providing healthcare benefits, third party payors including Medicare, Medicaid, managed care providers, insurance companies and others have increasingly encouraged the treatment of patients in lower-cost care settings. As a result, in recent years skilled nursing facilities, which typically have significantly lower cost structures than acute care hospitals and certain other post-acute care settings, have generally been serving larger populations of higher-acuity patients than in the past. Despite this growth in demand, uncertainty over Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates persists. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates are subject to change from time to time and, because revenue derived directly or indirectly from Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement has historically comprised the most significant portion of our consolidated revenue, a reduction in rates could materially and adversely impact our revenue. Medicare reimburses our skilled nursing facilities under a prospective payment system ("PPS") for certain inpatient covered services. Under the PPS, facilities are paid a predetermined amount per patient, per day, based on the anticipated costs of treating patients. The amount to be paid is determined by classifying each patient into a resource utilization group ("RUG") category that is based upon each patient's acuity level. In October 2010, the number of RUG categories was expanded from 53 to 66 as part of the implementation of the RUGs IV system and the introduction of a revised and substantially expanded patient assessment tool called the minimum data set (MDS) version 3.0. On July 29, 2011, CMS issued a final rule providing for, among other things, a net 11.1% reduction in PPS payments to skilled nursing facilities for CMS's fiscal year 2012 (which began October 1, 2011) as compared to PPS payments in CMS's fiscal year 2011 (which ended September 30, 2011). The 11.1% reduction was on a net basis, after the application of a 2.7% market basket increase, and reduced by a 1.0% multi-factor productivity adjustment required by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 ("PPACA"). The final CMS rule also adjusted the method by which group therapy is counted for reimbursement purposes, and changed the timing in which patients who are receiving therapy must be reassessed for purposes of determining their RUG category. The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 was signed into law on February 22, 2012, extending the Medicare Part B outpatient therapy cap exceptions process through December 31, 2012. The statutory Medicare Part B outpatient therapy cap for occupational therapy (OT) was $1,880 for 2012, and the combined cap for physical therapy (PT) and speech-language pathology services (SLP) was also $1,880 for 2012. This is the annual per beneficiary therapy cap amount 3 Table of Contents determined for each calendar year. Similar to the therapy cap, Congress established a threshold of $3,700 for PT and SLP services combined and another threshold of $3,700 for OT services. All therapy services rendered above the $3,700 are subject to manual medical review and may be denied unless pre-approved by the provider's Medicare Administrative Contractor (or "MAC"). The law requires an exceptions process to the therapy cap that allows providers to receive payment from Medicare for medically necessary therapy services above the therapy cap amount. Beginning October 1, 2012 some therapy providers may submit requests for exceptions (pre-approval for up to 20 therapy treatment days for beneficiaries at or above the $3,700 threshold) to avoid denial of claims for services above the threshold amount. The $3,700 figure is the defined threshold that triggers the provision for an exception request. Prior to October 1, 2012 there was no provision for an exception request when the threshold was exceeded. On July 27, 2012, CMS issued a final rule providing for, among other things, a net 1.8% increase in PPS payments to skilled nursing facilities for CMS's fiscal year 2013 (which began October 1, 2012) as compared to PPS payments in CMS's fiscal year 2012 (which ended September 30, 2012). The 1.8% increase was on a net basis, reflecting the application of a 2.5% market basket increase, less a 0.7% multi-factor productivity adjustment. After our wage index adjustment, our consolidated average increase was 1.7%. In July 2012, CMS issued its final rule for hospice services for its 2013 fiscal year. The rule includes a market basket increase of 2.6% less a 0.3% reduction in the market basket and a 0.7% reduction due to productivity adjustment. After adjusting for the wage index in our hospice agencies, we estimate that the net impact on our hospice service operations resulted an increase of 0.9% in our consolidated average reimbursement rates effective October 1, 2012. On January 1, 2013 the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (the ATRA) extended the therapy cap exception process for one year. The ATRA also made additional changes to the Multiple Procedure Payment Reduction ("MPPR") previously implemented in 2010. The existing discount to multiple therapy procedures performed in an outpatient environment during a single day was 25%. Effective April 1, 2013, ATRA increases the discount by an additional 25% to 50%. The ATRA additionally delayed the sequestration reductions of 2% to all Medicare payments until March 1, 2013 from January 1, 2013. Should future changes in PPS include further reduced rates or increased standards for reaching certain reimbursement levels (including as a result of automatic cuts tied to federal deficit cut efforts or otherwise), our Medicare revenues derived from our skilled nursing facilities (including rehabilitation therapy services provided at our skilled nursing facilities) could be reduced, with a corresponding adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operation. Our rehabilitation therapy, hospice and home health care businesses are also to a large degree directly or indirectly dependent on (and therefore affected by changes in) Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates. For example, our rehabilitation therapy business may have difficulty increasing or maintaining the rates it has negotiated with third party nursing facilities in light of the reduced PPS reimbursement rates that took effect on October 1, 2011 as discussed above or future reductions in reimbursement rates. We also derive a substantial portion of our consolidated revenue from Medicaid reimbursement, primarily through our skilled nursing business. Medicaid programs are administered by the applicable states and financed by both state and federal funds. Medicaid spending nationally has increased substantially in recent years, becoming an increasingly significant component of state budgets. This, combined with slower state revenue growth and other state budget demands, has led both the federal government and many states, including California and other states in which we operate, to institute measures aimed at controlling the growth of Medicaid spending (and in some instances reducing it). Historically, adjustments to reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid have had a significant effect on our revenue and results of operations. Recently enacted, pending and proposed legislation and administrative rulemaking at the federal and state levels could have similar effects on our business. Efforts to impose reduced reimbursement rates, greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any delay or default by the federal or state governments in making Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement payments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal Health Care Reform In addition to the matters described above affecting Medicare and Medicaid participating providers, Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ("PPACA") enacted several reforms with respect to skilled nursing facilities, home health agencies and hospices, including payment measures to realize significant savings of federal and state funds by deterring and prosecuting fraud and abuse in both the Medicare and Medicaid programs. While many of the provisions of PPACA will not take effect for several years or are subject to further refinement through the promulgation of regulations, some key provisions of PPACA are presently effective. Enhanced CMPs and Escrow Provisions . PPACA includes expanded civil monetary penalty ("CMP") and related provisions applicable to all Medicare and Medicaid providers. CMS rules adopted to implement applicable provisions of PPACA also provide that assessed CMPs may be collected and placed in whole or in 4 Table of Contents part into an escrow pending final disposition of the applicable administrative and judicial appeals processes. To the extent our businesses are assessed large CMPs that are collected and placed into an escrow account pending lengthy appeals, such actions could adversely affect our results of operations. Nursing Home Transparency Requirements . In addition to expanded CMP provisions, PPACA imposes new transparency requirements for Medicare-participating nursing facilities. In addition to previously required disclosures regarding a facility's owners, management and secured creditors, PPACA expanded the required disclosures to include information regarding the facility's organizational structure, additional information on officers, directors, trustees and "managing employees" of the facility (including their names, titles, and start dates of services), and information regarding certain parties affiliated with the facility. The transparency provisions could result in the potential for greater government scrutiny and oversight of the ownership and investment structure for skilled nursing facilities, as well as more extensive disclosure of entities and individuals that comprise part of skilled nursing facilities' ownership and management structure. Face-to-Face Encounter Requirements . PPACA imposes new patient face-to-face encounter requirements on home health agencies and hospices to establish a patient's ongoing eligibility for Medicare home health services or hospice services, as applicable. A certifying physician or other designated health care professional must conduct the face-to-face encounters within specified timeframes, and failure of the face-to-face encounter to occur and be properly documented during the applicable timeframes could render the patient's care ineligible for reimbursement under Medicare. Suspension of Payments During Pending Fraud Investigations . PPACA provides the federal government with expanded authority to suspend Medicare and Medicaid payments if a provider is investigated for allegations or issues of fraud. This suspension authority creates a new mechanism for the federal government to suspend both Medicare and Medicaid payments for allegations of fraud, independent of whether a state exercises its authority to suspend Medicaid payments pending a fraud investigation. To the extent the suspension of payments provision is applied to one of our businesses for allegations of fraud, such a suspension could adversely affect our results of operations. Overpayment Reporting and Repayment; Expanded False Claims Act Liability . PPACA enacted several important changes that expand potential liability under the federal False Claims Act. Overpayments related to services provided to both Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries must be reported and returned to the applicable payor within specified deadlines, or else they are considered obligations of the provider for purposes of the federal False Claims Act. This new provision substantially tightens the repayment and reporting requirements generally associated with operations of health care providers to avoid False Claims Act exposure. Home and Community Based Services . PPACA provides that states can provide home and community-based attendant services and support through the Community First Choice State plan option. States choosing to provide home and community based services under this option must make them available to assist with activities of daily living, instrumental activities of daily living and health related tasks under a plan of care agreed upon by the individual and his/her representative. For states that elect to make coverage of home and community-based services available through the Community First Choice State plan option, the percentage of the state's Medicaid expenses paid by the federal government will increase by 6 percentage points. PPACA also includes additional measures related to the expansion of community and home based services and authorizes states to expand coverage of community and home-based services to individuals who would not otherwise be eligible for them. The expansion of home-and-community based services could reduce the demand for the facility based services that we provide. Health Care-Acquired Conditions . PPACA provides that the Secretary of Health and Human Services must prohibit payments to states for any amounts expended for providing medical assistance for certain medical conditions acquired during the patient's receipt of health care services. CMS adopted a final rule to implement this provision of PPACA in the third quarter of 2011. The rule prohibits states from making payments to providers under the Medicaid program for conditions that are deemed to be reasonably preventable. It uses Medicare's list of preventable conditions in inpatient hospital settings as the base (adjusted for the differences in the Medicare and Medicaid populations) and provides states the flexibility to identify additional preventable conditions and settings for which Medicaid payment will be denied. Value-Based Purchasing. PPACA requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a plan to implement a value-based purchasing (VBP) program for payments under the Medicare program for skilled nursing facilities and to submit a report containing the plan to Congress. The intent of the provision is to potentially reconfigure how Medicare pays for health care services, moving the program towards rewarding better value, outcomes, and innovations, instead of volume. According to the plan submitted to Congress in 5 Table of Contents June 2012, the funding for the VBP program could come from payment withholds from poor-performing skilled nursing facilities or by holding back a portion of the base payment rate or the annual update for all skilled nursing facilities. If a VBP program is ultimately implemented, it is uncertain what effect it would have upon skilled nursing facilities, but its funding or other provisions could negatively affect skilled nursing facilities. Anti-Kickback Statute Amendments. PPACA amended the Anti-Kickback Statute so that (i) a claim that includes items or services violating the Anti-Kickback Statute also would constitute a false or fraudulent claim under the federal False Claims Act and (ii) the intent required to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute is lowered such that a person need not have actual knowledge or specific intent to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute in order for a violation to be deemed to have occurred. These modifications of the Anti-Kickback Statute could expose us to greater risk of inadvertent violations of the statute and to related liability under the federal False Claims Act. The provisions of PPACA discussed above are examples of recently enacted federal health reform provisions that we believe may have a material impact on the long-term care profession generally and on our business. However, the foregoing discussion is not intended to constitute, nor does it constitute, an exhaustive review and discussion of PPACA. It is possible that other provisions of PPACA may be interpreted, clarified, or applied to our businesses in a way that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similar federal and/or state legislation that may be adopted in the future could have similar effects. Government Regulation General Healthcare is an area of extensive and frequent regulatory change. Our subsidiaries that provide healthcare services must comply with federal, state and local laws relating to, among other things, licensure, delivery and adequacy of medical care, distribution of pharmaceuticals, personnel and operating policies. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws may have a significant impact on our methods and costs of doing business. Governmental and other authorities periodically inspect our skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, hospice agencies and home health agencies to verify that we continue to comply with their various standards. We must pass these inspections to continue our licensing under state law, to obtain certification under the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and, in some instances, to continue our participation in the Veterans Administration program. We can only participate in these third-party programs if inspections by regulatory authorities reveal that our facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable standards. In addition, regulatory authorities periodically inspect our recordkeeping and inventory control of controlled narcotics. From time to time, we, like others in the healthcare industry, may receive notices from federal and state regulatory authorities alleging that we failed to comply with applicable standards. These notices may require us to take corrective action, and may impose civil monetary penalties and other operating restrictions on us. If our facilities or agencies fail to comply with these directives or otherwise fail to comply substantially with licensure and certification laws, rules and regulations, they could lose their certification as a Medicare or Medicaid provider or lose their state operating licenses. Civil and Criminal Fraud and Abuse Laws and Enforcement Federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws regulate both the provision of services to government program beneficiaries and the methods and requirements for submitting claims for services rendered to such beneficiaries. Under these laws, individuals and organizations can be penalized for submitting claims for services that are not provided, that have been inadequately provided, billed in an incorrect manner or other than as actually provided, not medically necessary, provided by an improper person, accompanied by an illegal inducement to utilize or refrain from utilizing a service or product, or billed or coded in a manner that does not otherwise comply with applicable governmental requirements. Penalties also may be imposed for violation of anti-kickback and patient referral laws. Federal and state governments have a range of criminal, civil and administrative sanctions available to penalize and remediate healthcare fraud and abuse, including exclusion of the provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, fines, criminal and civil monetary penalties and suspension of payments and, in the case of individuals, imprisonment. We have internal policies and procedures, including a compliance program designed to facilitate compliance with and to reduce exposure for violations of these and other laws and regulations. However, because enforcement efforts presently are widespread within the industry and may vary from region to region, there can be no assurance that our internal policies and procedures will significantly reduce or eliminate exposure to civil or criminal sanctions or adverse administrative determinations. Anti-Kickback Statute 6 Table of Contents Federal law commonly referred to as the Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of anything of value, directly or indirectly, in return for the referral of patients or arranging for the referral of patients, or in return for the recommendation, arrangement, purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by a federal healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid. Violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute is a felony, and sanctions for each violation include imprisonment of up to five years, significant criminal fines, significant civil monetary penalties plus three times the amount claimed or three times the remuneration offered, and exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Many states have adopted similar prohibitions against kickbacks and other practices that are intended to induce referrals applicable to all payors. We are required under the Medicare conditions of participation and some state licensing laws to contract with numerous healthcare providers and practitioners, including physicians, hospitals and nursing homes, and to arrange for these individuals or entities to provide services to our patients. In addition, we have contracts with other suppliers, including pharmacies, ambulance services and medical equipment companies. Some of these individuals or entities may refer, or be in a position to refer, patients to us, and we may refer, or be in a position to refer, patients to these individuals or entities. Certain safe harbor provisions have been created, and compliance with a safe harbor ensures that the contractual relationship will not be found in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute. We attempt to structure these arrangements in a manner that falls within one of the safe harbors. Some of these arrangements may not ultimately satisfy the applicable safe harbor requirements, but failure to meet the safe harbor does not necessarily mean an arrangement is illegal. We believe that our arrangements with providers, practitioners and suppliers are in compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. However, if any of our arrangements with third parties were to be challenged and found to be in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, and we could be excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly harm our business and financial condition. Stark Law Federal law commonly known as the Stark Law prohibits a physician from making referrals for particular healthcare services to entities with which the physician (or an immediate family member of the physician) has a financial relationship if the services are payable by Medicare or Medicaid. If an arrangement is covered by the Stark Law, the requirements of a Stark Law exception must be met for the physician to be able to make referrals to the entity for designated health services and for the entity to be able to bill for these services. Although the term designated health services does not include long-term care services, some of the services provided at our skilled nursing facilities and other related business units are classified as designated health services, including physical, speech and occupational therapy, as well as pharmacy and hospice services. The term financial relationship is defined very broadly to include most types of ownership or compensation relationships. The Stark Law also prohibits the entity receiving the referral from seeking payment from the patient or the Medicare and Medicaid programs for services rendered pursuant to a prohibited referral. The Stark Law contains exceptions for certain physician ownership or investment interests in, and certain physician compensation arrangements with, certain entities. If a compensation arrangement or investment relationship between a physician, or immediate family member, and an entity satisfies the applicable requirements for a Stark Law exception, the Stark Law will not prohibit the physician from referring patients to the entity for designated health services. The exceptions for compensation arrangements cover employment relationships, personal services contracts and space and equipment leases, among others. If an entity violates the Stark Law, it could be subject to significant civil penalties. The entity also may be excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. If the Stark Law were found to apply to our relationships with referring physicians and no exception under the Stark Law were available, we would be required to restructure these relationships or refuse to accept referrals for designated health services from these physicians. If we were found to have submitted claims to Medicare or Medicaid for services provided pursuant to a referral prohibited by the Stark Law, we would be required to repay any amounts we received from Medicare or Medicaid for those services and could be subject to civil monetary penalties. Further, we could be excluded from participating in Medicare and Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. If we were required to repay any amounts to Medicare or Medicaid, subjected to fines, or excluded from the Medicare and Medicaid Programs, our business and financial condition would be harmed significantly. As directed by PPACA, in 2010 CMS released a self-referral disclosure protocol (SRDP) for potential or actual violations of the Stark Law. Under SRDP, CMS states that it may, but is not required to, reduce the amounts due and owing for a Stark Law violation, and will consider the following factors in deciding whether to grant a reduction: (1) the nature and extent of the improper or illegal practice; (2) the timeliness of the self-disclosure; (3) the cooperation in providing additional information related to the disclosure; (4) the litigation risk associated with the matter disclosed; and (5) the financial position of the disclosing party. 7 Table of Contents Many states have physician relationship and referral statutes that are similar to the Stark Law. These laws generally apply regardless of the payor. We believe that our operations are structured to comply with the Stark Law and applicable state laws with respect to physician relationships and referrals. However, any finding that we are not in compliance with these laws could require us to change our operations or could subject us to penalties. This, in turn, could significantly harm our business and financial condition. False Claims Federal and state laws prohibit the submission of false claims and other acts that are considered fraudulent or abusive. The submission of claims to a federal or state healthcare program for items and services that are not provided as claimed may lead to the imposition of significant civil monetary penalties, significant criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in state and federally-funded healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Allegations of poor quality of care can also lead to false claims suits as prosecutors allege that the provider has represented to the government healthcare program that adequate care is provided and the lack of quality care causes the service to be not provided as claimed. Under the federal False Claims Act ("FCA"), actions against a provider can be initiated by the federal government or by a private party on behalf of the federal government. These private parties, who are often referred to as qui tam relators or relators, are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government. Both direct enforcement activity by the government and qui tam relator actions have increased significantly in recent years. The use of private enforcement actions against healthcare providers has increased dramatically, in part because the relators are entitled to share in a portion of any settlement or judgment. This development has increased the risk that a healthcare company will have to defend a false claims action, pay fines or settlement amounts or be excluded from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of false claims laws. Many states have enacted similar laws providing for imposition of civil and criminal penalties for the filing of fraudulent claims. Because we submit thousands of claims to Medicare each year, and there is a relatively long statute of limitations under the FCA, there is a risk that intentional, or even negligent or recklessly submitted claims that prove to be incorrect, or even billing errors, cost reporting errors or lapses in statutory or regulatory compliance with regard to the provision of health care services (including, without limitation the Anti-Kickback Statue and the federal self-referral law discussed above), could result in significant civil or criminal penalties against us. For example, see Note 13. "Commitment and Contingencies - Legal Matter - Humboldt County Injunction" for information regarding a False Claims Act action that the California Attorney General and the US Department of Justice have indicated an interest in pursuing against us. In addition to FCA concerns, federal law makes it a felony to fail to disclose to the government an overpayment once the recipient has knowledge of the overpayment. We believe that our operations comply with the FCA and similar state laws. However, if our claims practices were challenged and found to violate the applicable laws, any finding that we are not in compliance with these laws could require us to change our operations or could subject us to penalties or make us ineligible to participate in certain government funded healthcare programs, which could in turn significantly harm our business and financial condition. Patient Privacy and Security Laws There are numerous legislative and regulatory requirements at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy and security of health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) contains provisions that require us to adopt and maintain business procedures designed to protect the privacy, security and integrity of patients' individual health information. States also have laws that apply to the privacy of healthcare information. We must comply with these state privacy laws to the extent that they are more protective of healthcare information or provide additional protections not afforded by HIPAA. HIPAA's security standards were designed to protect electronic information against reasonably anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of the information and to protect the information against unauthorized use or disclosure. These standards have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on the health care industry because they impose extensive requirements and restrictions on the use and disclosure of identifiable patient information. In addition, HIPAA established uniform standards governing the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protecting the privacy and security of certain individually identifiable health information. The Health Information Technology for Clinical Health Act of 2009 ("HITECH Act"), and predecessor laws in California, expanded the requirements and noncompliance penalties under HIPAA and California privacy law and require correspondingly intensive compliance efforts by companies such as ours, including self-disclosures of breaches of unsecured health information to affected patients, federal officials, and, in some cases, the media. These laws make unauthorized access (i.e., snooping) by our employees illegal and subject to self-disclosure and penalties. Other states may adopt similar or more extensive breach notice and privacy requirements. Compliance with these regulations could require us to make significant investments of money and other resources. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable state and federal regulations relating to 8 Table of Contents privacy and security of patient information. However, if we fail to comply with the applicable regulations, we could be subject to significant penalties and other adverse consequences. Federal Health Care Reform In addition to the provisions described above affecting Medicare and Medicaid participating providers, the PPACA enacted several reforms with respect to skilled nursing facilities and hospices, including payment measures to realize significant savings of federal and state funds by deterring and prosecuting fraud and abuse in both the Medicare and Medicaid programs. See Industry Trends-Federal Health Care Reform above for additional information regarding PPACA. Certificates of Need and Other Regulatory Matters Certain states administer a certificate of need program, which applies to the incurrence of capital expenditures, the offering of certain new institutional health services, the cessation of certain services and the acquisition of major medical equipment. Such legislation also stipulates requirements for such programs, including that each program be consistent with the respective state health plan in effect pursuant to such legislation and provide for penalties to enforce program requirements. To the extent that certificates of need or other similar approvals are required for expansion of our operations, either through acquisitions, expansion or provision of new services or other changes, such expansion could be affected adversely by the failure or inability to obtain the necessary approvals, changes in the standards applicable to such approvals or possible delays and expenses associated with obtaining such approvals. State Operating License Requirements Nursing homes, assisted living facilities, pharmacies, hospice agencies and home health agencies are required to be individually licensed or certified under applicable state law and as a condition of participation under the Medicare program. In addition, healthcare professionals and practitioners are required to be licensed in most states. We believe that our operating companies and personnel that provide these services have all required regulatory approvals necessary for our current operations. The failure to obtain, retain or renew any required license could adversely affect our operations, including our financial results. Rehabilitation License Requirements Our rehabilitation therapy services operations are subject to various federal and state regulations, primarily regulations of individual practitioners. Therapists and other healthcare professionals employed by us are required to be individually licensed or certified under applicable state law. We take measures to ensure that our therapists and other healthcare professionals are properly licensed and participate in required continuing education programs. The failure to obtain, retain or renew any required license or certifications by therapists or other healthcare professionals could adversely affect our operations, including our financial results. Regulation of our Joint Venture Institutional Pharmacy Our joint venture institutional pharmacy operations, which include medical equipment and supplies, are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, operational requirements, reimbursement, documentation, licensure, certification and regulation of pharmacies, pharmacists, drug compounding and manufacture and controlled substances. Under federal law, dispensers of controlled substances must register with the Drug Enforcement Administration, file reports of inventories and transactions and provide adequate security measures. Failure to comply with such requirements or other laws applicable to pharmacies could result in significant civil or criminal penalties. The Medicare and Medicaid programs also establish certain requirements for participation of pharmacy suppliers. Competition Our skilled nursing facilities compete primarily on a local and regional basis with many long-term care providers, from national and regional chains to smaller providers owning as few as a single nursing center. We also compete under certain circumstances with inpatient rehabilitation facilities and long-term acute care hospitals. Our ability to compete successfully varies from location to location and depends on a number of factors, including the number of competing facilities in the local market, the types of services available, our local reputation for quality care of patients, the commitment and expertise of our caregivers, our local service offerings and treatment programs, the cost of care in each locality, and the physical appearance, location, age and condition of our facilities. We seek to compete effectively in each market by establishing a reputation within the local community for quality of care, attractive and comfortable facilities, and providing specialized healthcare with an emphasized focus on high-acuity patients. 9 Table of Contents Programs targeting high-acuity patients, including our Express Recovery units, generally have a higher staffing level per patient than our other inpatient facilities and compete more directly with inpatient rehabilitation facilities and long-term acute-care hospitals. We believe that the average cost to a third-party payor for the treatment of our typical high-acuity patient is lower if that patient is treated in one of our skilled nursing facilities than if that same patient were to be treated in an inpatient rehabilitation facility or long-term acute-care hospital. Our other services, such as assisted living facilities, rehabilitation therapy provided to third-party facilities, hospice care and home health services, and institutional pharmacy services, also compete with local, regional, and national companies. The primary competitive factors in these businesses are similar to those for our skilled nursing facilities and include reputation, cost of services, quality of clinical services, responsiveness to patient/resident needs, location and the ability to provide support in other areas such as third-party reimbursement, information management and patient recordkeeping. Increased competition could limit our ability to attract and retain patients, maintain or increase rates or to expand our business. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, may have greater brand recognition and may be more established in their respective communities than we are. Competing companies may also offer newer facilities or different programs or services than we do and may as a result be more attractive to our current patients, to potential patients and to referral sources. Some of our competitors may accept lower profit margins than we do, which could present significant price competition, particularly for managed care and private pay patients. With respect to hospice services, while non-profit organizations have historically operated a significant majority of all hospice programs, for-profit companies have begun to occupy a larger share of the hospice market. Increasing public awareness of hospice services, the aging of the U.S. population and favorable reimbursement by Medicare, which is the primary payor for hospice services, have contributed to the recent growth in the hospice care market. As more companies enter the market to provide hospice services, we will face increasing competitive pressure. Labor Our most significant operating cost is labor. We seek to manage our labor costs by improving staffing retention, maintaining competitive labor rates, and reducing reliance on overtime compensation and temporary staffing services. As of December 31, 2012 , we had approximately 15,000 employees and had eight collective bargaining agreements with unions covering approximately 500 employees at eight of our skilled nursing facilities. Labor costs accounted for approximately 68.5% , 67.0% and 66.2% of our operating expenses (excluding impairment charges) from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. We generally consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Risk Management We have developed a risk management program designed to stabilize our insurance and professional liability costs. As part of this program, we have implemented an arbitration agreement system at each of our nursing facilities under which, upon admission, patients are requested (but not required) to execute an agreement that requires disputes to be arbitrated prior to filing a lawsuit. We believe that this program accelerates resolution of disputes and has significantly reduced our liability exposure and related costs. We have also established an incident reporting process that involves monthly follow-up with our facility administrators to monitor the progress of claims and losses. We believe that our emphasis on providing high-quality care and our attention to monitoring quality of care indicators has also helped to reduce our liability exposure and related costs. Insurance We maintain a variety of types of insurance, including general and professional liability, workers' compensation, employee benefits liability, property, casualty, directors' and officers' liability, inland marine, crime, boiler and machinery, automobile, employment practices liability and earthquake and flood. We believe that our insurance programs are adequate and where there has been a direct transfer of risk to the insurance carrier, we do not recognize a liability in our consolidated financial statements. We self-insure a significant portion of our potential liabilities for several risks, including certain types of general and professional liability, workers' compensation, and employee benefit insurance. To the extent our insurance coverage is insufficient or unavailable to cover losses that we incur that would otherwise be insurable, or to the extent that our estimates of anticipated liabilities that we self-insure are significantly lower than the actual self-insured liabilities that we incur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For additional information regarding our insurance programs, see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Insurance in the financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Environmental Matters 10 Table of Contents We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. As a healthcare provider, we face regulatory requirements in areas of air and water quality control, medical and low-level radioactive waste management and disposal, asbestos management, response to mold and lead-based paint in our facilities and employee safety. In our role as owner and/or operator of our facilities (including our leased facilities), we also may be required to investigate and remediate hazardous substances that are located on the property, including any such substances that may have migrated off, or discharged or transported from the property. Part of our operations involves the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and/or discharge of hazardous, infectious, toxic, flammable and other hazardous materials, wastes, pollutants or contaminants. These activities may result in damage to individuals, property or the environment; may interrupt operations and/or increase costs; may result in legal liability, damages, injunctions or fines; may result in investigations, administrative proceedings, penalties or other governmental agency actions; and may not be covered by insurance. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety requirements. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur environmental liabilities in the future, and such liabilities may result in material adverse consequences to our operations and financial condition. Customers No individual customer or client accounts for a significant portion of our revenue. We do not expect that the loss of a single customer or client would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Such reports and other information filed by us with the SEC are available free of charge at the investor relations section of our website at www.skilledhealthcaregroup.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Copies are also available, without charge, by writing to Skilled Healthcare Group Investor Communications, 27442 Portola Parkway, Suite 200, Foothill Ranch, CA, 92610. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The inclusion of our website address in this annual report does not include or incorporate by reference the information on our website into this annual report. Company History Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. was incorporated as SHG Holding Solutions, Inc. in Delaware in October 2005. Our predecessor company acquired Summit Care Corporation, a publicly traded long-term care company with nursing facilities in California, Texas and Arizona, in 1998. In October 2001, our predecessor and 19 of its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and in November 2001, our remaining three companies also filed voluntary petitions for protection under Chapter 11. In August 2003, we emerged from bankruptcy, paying or restructuring all debt holders in full, paying all accrued interest expenses and issuing 5.0% of our common stock to former bondholders. In March 2005, we also sold our California pharmacy business, consisting of two institutional pharmacies in Southern California. In February 2007, we effected the merger of our predecessor company, which was our wholly-owned subsidiary, with and into us. We were the surviving company in the merger and changed our name from SHG Holding Solutions, Inc. to Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. As a result of the merger, we assumed all of the rights and obligations of our predecessor company. In June 2009, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California granted entry of a final decree closing the aforementioned Chapter 11 cases. Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements made by us in this report and in other reports and statements released by us that are not historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21 of the Exchange Act. Statements that use words such as "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "could," "plan," "expect," "project" or the negative of these, as well as similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates and expectations reflecting the best judgment of our senior management based on our current estimates, expectations, forecasts and projections, and include comments that express our current opinions about trends and factors that may impact future operating results. Such statements rely on a number of assumptions concerning future events, many of which are outside of our control, and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements, expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements, whether made in this report or elsewhere, Table of Contents should be considered in the context of the various disclosures made by us about our business and other matters including, without limitation, the risk factors discussed below. We expressly disclaim any duty to update the forward-looking statements and other information contained in this report, except as required by law. We operate in a rapidly changing and highly regulated environment that involves a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are highlighted below and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. The following risk factors are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, natural disasters, general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operations, liquidity and stock price. Risks Related to Our Business Reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates, or changes in the rules governing the Medicare program could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Medicare is our largest source of revenue, accounting for 33.6% of our consolidated revenue during the twelve months ended December 31, 2012 and 37.4% in the fiscal year 2011. In addition, many private payors base their reimbursement rates on the published Medicare rates or, in the case of our rehabilitation therapy services customers, are themselves reimbursed by Medicare for the services we provide. Accordingly, if Medicare reimbursement rates are reduced or fail to increase as quickly as our costs, or if there are changes in the rules governing the Medicare program that are disadvantageous to our business or industry, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. The Medicare program and its reimbursement rates and rules are subject to frequent change. These include statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments (including retroactive adjustments), administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates at which Medicare reimburses us for our services. For example, CMS implemented a net 11.1% reduction in its reimbursement rates to skilled nursing facilities effective October 1, 2011. Based on current federal law, an automatic 2% reduction in Medicare spending will be imposed beginning in March 2013 unless Congress takes further action to stay the automatic reduction or authorize spending increases. Budget pressures often lead the federal government to reduce or place limits on reimbursement rates under Medicare. Implementation of these and other types of measures has in the past and could in the future result in substantial reductions in our revenue and operating margins. Prior reductions in governmental reimbursement rates partially contributed to our predecessor's bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in October 2001. In addition, the federal government often changes the rules governing the Medicare program, including those governing reimbursement. Changes that could adversely affect our business include: administrative or legislative changes to base rates or the bases of payment; limits on the services or types of providers for which Medicare will provide reimbursement; changes in methodology for patient assessment and/or determination of payment levels; the reduction or elimination of annual rate increases; or an increase in co-payments or deductibles payable by beneficiaries. Given the history of frequent revisions to the Medicare program and its reimbursement rates and rules, we may not continue to receive reimbursement rates from Medicare that sufficiently compensate us for our services or, in some instances, cover our operating costs. Limits on reimbursement rates or the scope of services being reimbursed could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any delay or default by the federal or state governments in making Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement payments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect the federal and state governments to continue their efforts to contain growth in Medicaid expenditures, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We receive a significant portion of our revenue from Medicaid, which accounted for 30.6% of our consolidated revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012 and 29.2% in 2011. Medicaid is a state-administered program financed by both state funds and matching federal funds. Medicaid spending has increased rapidly in recent years, becoming a significant component of state budgets. This, combined with slower state revenue growth, has led both the federal government and many states (including California and Texas, where significant portions of our Medicaid-related business is located) to institute measures aimed at controlling the growth of Medicaid spending, and in some instances reducing aggregate Medicaid spending. We expect these state and federal efforts to continue for the foreseeable future. If Medicaid reimbursement rates are reduced or fail to increase as quickly as our costs, or if there are changes in the rules governing the Medicaid program that are disadvantageous to our businesses, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Recent federal government proposals could limit the states' use of provider tax programs to generate revenue for their Medicaid expenditures, which could result in a reduction in our reimbursement rates under Medicaid. To generate funds to pay for the increasing costs of the Medicaid program, many states utilize financial arrangements commonly referred to as "provider taxes." Under provider tax arrangements, states collect taxes from healthcare providers and then use the revenue to pay the providers as a Medicaid expenditure, which allows the states to then claim additional federal matching funds on the additional reimbursements. Current federal law provides for a cap on the maximum allowable provider tax as a percentage of the provider's total revenue. There can be no assurance that federal law will continue to provide matching federal funds on state Medicaid expenditures funded through provider taxes, or that the current caps on provider taxes will not be reduced. Any discontinuance or reduction in federal matching of provider tax-related Medicaid expenditures could have a significant and adverse effect on states' Medicaid expenditures, and as a result could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue we receive from Medicare and Medicaid is subject to potential retroactive reduction. Payments we receive from Medicare and Medicaid can be retroactively adjusted after examination during the claims settlement process or as a result of post-payment audits. Payors may disallow our requests for reimbursement, or recoup amounts previously reimbursed, based on determinations by the payors or their third-party audit contractors that certain costs are not reimbursable because either adequate or additional documentation was not provided or because certain services were not covered or deemed to not be medically necessary. Significant adjustments, recoupments or repayments of our Medicare or Medicaid revenue, and the costs associated with complying with investigative audits by regulatory and governmental authorities, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, from time to time we become aware, either based on information provided by third parties and/or the results of internal audits, of payments from payor sources that were either wholly or partially in excess of the amount that we should have been paid for the service provided. For example, as discussed in Note 3 - "Correction of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements," to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report, in 2012 we became aware of a significant amount of reimbursements for blood glucose testing billed by a number of our skilled nursing subsidiaries from 2007 through early 2012, which those subsidiaries found to be potentially ineligible for reimbursement by Medicare and in an abundance of caution refunded. Overpayments may result from a variety of factors, including insufficient documentation supporting the services rendered or medical necessity of the services, other failures to document the satisfaction of the necessary conditions of payment, or in some cases for providing services that are deemed to be worthless. We are required by law in most instances to refund the full amount of the overpayment after becoming aware of it, and failure to do so within requisite time limits imposed by the law could lead to significant fines and penalties being imposed on us. Furthermore, our initial billing of and payments for services that are unsupported by the requisite documentation and satisfaction of any other conditions of payment, regardless of our awareness of the failure at the time of the billing or payment, could expose us to significant fines and penalties, including pursuant to the Federal False Claims Act ("FFCA") and the Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law ("FCMPL"). Violations of the FFCA could lead to any combination of a variety of criminal, civil and administrative fines and penalties. The FFCA provides for civil fines ranging from $5,500 to $11,000 per claim plus treble damages. The Civil Monetary Penalties Law similarly provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 per claim plus up to treble damages. We and/or certain of our operating companies could also be subject to exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs in some circumstances as well, in addition to any monetary or other fines, penalties or sanctions that we may incur under applicable federal and/or state law. Our repayment of any such amounts, as well as any fines, penalties or other sanctions that we may incur, could be significant and could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time we are also involved in various external governmental investigations, audits and reviews. Reviews, audits and investigations of this sort can lead to government actions, which can result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs. For example, the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) conducts a variety of routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews across our industry. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Health reform legislation could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for, healthcare services in the United States. These initiatives have ranged from proposals to fundamentally change federal and state healthcare reimbursement programs, including the provision of comprehensive healthcare coverage to the public under governmental funded programs, to minor modifications to existing programs. The PPACA was enacted in 2010 and is among the most comprehensive and notable of these legislative efforts. The 13 Table of Contents impact of PPACA remains uncertain to a large degree due to various implementation, timing, cost and regulatory requirements imposed by the legislation. The content or timing of any future health reform legislation, and its impact on us is impossible to predict. However, it is likely that certain provisions in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care act will impose significant costs on us, including with respect to the health insurance options that we provide our employees, that will negatively affect our operations. If significant reforms are made to the U.S. healthcare system, those reforms may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we incur considerable administrative costs in monitoring the changes made within the various reimbursement programs in which we participate, determining the appropriate actions to be taken in response to those changes, and implementing the required actions to meet the new requirements and minimize the repercussions of the changes to our organization, reimbursement rates and costs. Annual caps that limit the amounts that can be paid for outpatient therapy services rendered to any Medicare beneficiary may negatively affect our results of operations. Some of our rehabilitation therapy revenue is paid by the Medicare Part B program under a fee schedule. There are annual caps that limit, subject to certain exceptions, the amounts that can be paid (including deductible and coinsurance amounts) for rehabilitation therapy services rendered to any Medicare beneficiary under Medicare Part B. There is a combined cap for physical therapy and speech-language pathology and a separate cap for occupational therapy that apply subject to certain exceptions. The discontinuation or change in the current cap exception process or future modifications of the Medicare Part B cap structure could have an adverse effect on the revenue that we generate through our rehabilitation therapy business. This could in turn have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the Medicare Part B therapy pre-approval provisions and MPPR rate reductions that took effect October 1, 2012, are expected to negatively impact our therapy business through the end of 2013. We are subject to a Medicare cap amount for our hospice business. Our net patient service revenue and profitability could be adversely affected by limitations on Medicare payments. Overall payments made by Medicare to us on a per hospice basis are subject to an annual cap amount. Total Medicare payments received for services rendered during the applicable Medicare hospice cap year by each of our Medicare-certified hospice programs during this period are compared to the cap amount for the relevant period. Payments in excess of the cap are subject to recoupment by Medicare. We monitor the Medicare cap amount and seek to implement corrective measures as necessary. We maintain what we believe are adequate allowances in the event that our individual hospice agencies exceed the Medicare hospice cap in any given fiscal year. However, many of the variables involved in estimating the Medicare hospice cap contractual adjustment are beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will not increase or decrease our estimated contractual allowance in the future, or that we will not be required to surrender amounts we received from Medicare that were in excess of the Medicare hospice cap for any particular period(s). We recorded net hospice cap reserves of $2.1 million in 2011 and $4.1 million in 2012. In 2011 the majority of the amounts by which the hospice programs exceeded the cap were indemnified by the entities from which we purchased the hospice programs. This adjustment related primarily to patients which transferred from our hospice agencies to unaffiliated hospice agencies and as a result we are required to share the hospice cap amount for those patients. Our ability to comply with the cap limitation depends on a number of factors relating to a given hospice program, including number of admissions, average length of stay, mix in level of care and Medicare patients that transfer into and out of our hospice programs. Our revenue and profitability may be materially reduced if we are unable to comply with this and other Medicare payment limitations. We cannot assure you that our hospice programs will not exceed the cap amount in the future or that our estimate of the Medicare cap contractual adjustment will not differ materially from the actual Medicare cap amount. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and government regulations. If we are not operating in compliance with these laws and regulations or if these laws and regulations change, we could be required to make significant expenditures or change our operations in order to bring our facilities and operations into compliance. We, along with other companies in the healthcare industry, are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: licensure and certification; adequacy and quality of healthcare services; qualifications of healthcare and support personnel; quality of medical equipment; 14 Table of Contents confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and claims processing; relationships with physicians and other referral sources and recipients; constraints on protective contractual provisions with patients and third-party payors; operating policies and procedures; addition of facilities and services; and billing for services. Many of these laws and regulations are expansive, and we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. In addition, many of these laws and regulations evolve to include additional obligations and restrictions, and sometimes with retroactive effect. Certain other regulatory developments, such as revisions in the building code requirements for assisted living and skilled nursing facilities, mandatory increases in scope and quality of care to be offered to residents, revisions in licensing and certification standards, mandatory staffing levels, regulations regarding conditions for payment and regulations restricting those we can hire, could also have a material adverse effect on us. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. One development potentially restricting those we may hire was a decision on November 3, 2010 by the Physical Therapy Board of California ("PT Board") to rescind a 1990 PT Board resolution which determined that the offering of physical therapy services by a corporation, not organized as a professional corporation, was permitted by the Physical Therapy Practice Act, which is the California statute governing the provision of physical therapy within the state. This rescission purports to prohibit employment of a physical therapist to provide physical therapy services by any professional corporation except those owned by physical therapists and Naturopaths. Lay corporations that hold themselves out as physical therapy corporations would be similarly prohibited. We have a subsidiary that employs physical therapists in California, but is not owned by physical therapists. Our subsidiary contracts with nursing facilities to provide the facilities with personnel who are licensed to provide rehabilitation therapy services, including physical therapy, occupational therapy and/or speech language pathology services. Our therapists then provide rehabilitation therapy services to the nursing facilities' patients under the skilled nursing facilities' licenses that authorize the provision of physical therapy (and other rehabilitation therapy services, if applicable). In this relationship, the nursing facilities retain the patient relationship, remain professionally responsible for the healthcare services including therapy, and bill the patient and/or third party payors for the services rendered to their patients. We are unaware of any enforcement actions by the PT Board to date and it is not clear whether the applicable law would ultimately be interpreted to mean that our rehabilitation therapy subsidiary cannot employ and provide physical therapists to nursing facilities in California as it currently does. Nevertheless, the PT Board could seek an enforcement action against our rehabilitation therapy subsidiary and its physical therapist employees and we may have to significantly restructure our California rehabilitation therapy operations to conform to the PT Board's revised interpretation of the law. In addition, federal and state government agencies have increased and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare companies, including skilled nursing facilities, home health agencies and hospice agencies. This includes investigations of: fraud and abuse; quality of care; financial relationships with referral sources; and the medical necessity of services provided. As discussed in Note 13, "Commitments and Contingencies-Litigation," the California Attorney General's Bureau of Medi-Cal & Elder Abuse (BMFEA) filed a criminal complaint against Eureka Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center, LLC, Skilled Healthcare, LLC and us on October 31, 2012, alleging elder endangerment related to the care of certain patients at Eureka Rehabilitation Center. The charges filed by the BMFEA, if proven, carry fines of up to $6,000 for each of the two felony counts and up to $1,000 for each of the nine misdemeanor counts. Convictions could also lead to exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs under federal laws such as the Federal False Claims Act and the Civil Monetary Penalty Law, which could be materially adverse to our business. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, the intensity of federal and state enforcement actions or the extent and size of any potential sanctions, fines or penalties. Changes in the regulatory framework, our failure to obtain or renew required regulatory approvals or licenses or to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the suspension or revocation of our licenses or our disqualification from participation in federal and state reimbursement programs, or the imposition of other enforcement sanctions, fines or penalties could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Furthermore, should we lose licenses or certifications for a number of our facilities or other businesses as a result of regulatory action, legal proceedings such as those described in Note 13, "Commitments and Contingencies-Litigation," or 15 Table of Contents otherwise, we could be deemed to be in default under some of our agreements, including agreements governing outstanding indebtedness and the report of such issues at one of our facilities could harm our reputation for quality care and lead to a reduction in our patient referrals and ultimately our revenue and operating income. We face periodic inspections, reviews, audits and investigations under federal and state laws, government programs and contracts. Adverse findings could negatively affect our business. As a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, we are subject to various governmental inspections, reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with these programs and applicable laws and regulations. Managed care payors may also reserve the right to conduct audits. We also periodically conduct internal audits and reviews of our regulatory compliance. An adverse inspection, review, audit or investigation could result in: refunding amounts we have been paid pursuant to the Medicare or Medicaid programs or from managed care payors; state or federal agencies imposing fines, penalties and other sanctions on us; temporary suspension of payment for new patients to the facility or agency; decertification or exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs or one or more managed care payor networks; self-disclosure of violations to applicable regulatory authorities; damage to our reputation; the revocation of a facility's or agency's license; and loss of certain rights under, or termination of, our contracts with managed care payors. We have in the past and will likely in the future be required to refund amounts we have been paid and/or pay fines and penalties, as a result of these inspections, reviews, audits and investigations. If adverse inspections, reviews, audits or investigations occur and any of the results noted above occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Significant legal actions, which are commonplace in our professions, could subject us to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The long-term care profession has experienced an increasing trend in the number and severity of litigation claims involving punitive damages and settlements. We believe that this trend is endemic to the industry and is a result of a variety of factors, including the number of large judgments, including large punitive damage awards, against long-term care providers in recent years resulting in an increased awareness by plaintiffs' lawyers of potentially large recoveries. While some states have enacted tort reform legislation that limits plaintiffs' recoveries in some respects, should our professional liability and general liability increase significantly in the future, we may not be able to increase our revenue sufficiently to cover the cost increases, our operating income could suffer, and we may not be able to meet our obligations to repay our liabilities. For a discussion of recent litigation claims against us, including the Humboldt County Action, see Note 13, "Commitments and Contingencies-Litigation" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. We also may be subject to lawsuits under the FFCA and comparable state laws for submitting allegedly fraudulent or otherwise inappropriate bills for services to the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These lawsuits, which may be initiated by regulatory authorities as well as private party whistleblowers, can involve significant monetary damages, fines, attorney fees and the award of bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits, as well as to the government programs. We may incur significant liabilities in conjunction with legal actions against us, including as a result of damages, fines and penalties that may be assessed against us, as well as a result of the sometimes significant commitments of financial and management resources that are often required to defend against such legal actions. The incurrence of such liabilities and related commitments of resources could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could face significant financial difficulties as a result of one or more of the risks discussed in this report, which could cause us to significantly alter our business and/or seek protection under bankruptcy laws or could cause our creditors or government authorities to have a receiver appointed on our behalf. We could face significant financial difficulties if Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement rates are reduced, patient demand for our services is reduced or we incur unexpected liabilities or expenses, including in connection with legal actions, sanctions, penalties or fines or the other risks discussed in this report. This financial difficulty could cause us to significantly alter our business and/or seek protection under bankruptcy laws or could cause our creditors or government authorities to have a receiver appointed on our behalf. 16 Table of Contents A significant portion of our business is concentrated in certain geographical markets, and an economic downturn or changes in the laws affecting our business in those markets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In 2012, we received approximately 40.1% of our consolidated revenue from operations in California and 20.6% from Texas, and in 2011, we received approximately 40.8% of our consolidated revenue from operations in California and 21.4% from Texas. We expect to continue to receive significant portions of our consolidated revenue from those states in the future as well. Accordingly, economic conditions and changes in state healthcare spending prevailing in either of these markets or other markets in which we have significant concentrations could affect the ability of our patients and third-party payors to reimburse us for our services, either through a reduction of the tax base used to generate state funding of Medicaid programs, an increase in the number of indigent patients eligible for Medicaid benefits, changes in state funding levels or healthcare programs or other factors. A continued or prolonged economic downturn, significant changes in state healthcare spending, or changes in the laws affecting our business in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. We produce our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, to help mitigate the risk of fraud and to operate successfully. We are required by federal securities laws to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Testing and maintaining our internal control over financial reporting can be expensive and divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with applicable law, or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue an unqualified attestation report if we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified attestation report on our internal control, we could be required to take costly and time-consuming corrective measures, be required to restate the affected historical financial statements, be subjected to investigations and/or sanctions by federal and state securities regulators, and be subjected to civil lawsuits by security holders. Any of the foregoing could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and in our company and would likely result in a decline in the market price of our stock and in our ability to raise additional financing if needed in the future. Possible changes in the acuity mix of patients as well as payor mix and payment methodologies may significantly reduce our profitability or cause us to incur losses. Our revenue is affected by our ability to attract a favorable patient acuity mix, and by our mix of payment sources. Changes in the type of patients we attract, as well as our payor mix among private payors, managed care companies, Medicare and Medicaid, significantly affect our profitability because not all payors reimburse us at the same rates. Particularly, if we fail to maintain our proportion of high-acuity patients or if there is any significant increase in the percentage of our population for which we receive Medicaid reimbursement, our financial position, results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected. It is difficult to attract and retain qualified nurses, therapists, healthcare professionals and other key personnel, which increases our costs related to these employees and could cause us to fail to comply with state staffing requirements at one or more of our facilities. Our employees are our most important asset. We rely on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare professionals. The market for these key personnel is highly competitive, and we could experience significant increases in our operating costs due to shortages in their availability. Like other healthcare providers, we have experienced difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, especially facility administrators, nurses, therapists, certified nurses' aides and other important healthcare personnel. We may continue to experience increases in our labor costs, primarily due to higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified healthcare personnel, and such increases may adversely affect our profitability. The tight labor market and high demand for such employees contributes to high turnover among clinical professional staff. A shortage of qualified personnel at a facility could result in significant increases in labor costs and increased reliance on overtime and expensive temporary staffing agencies, and could otherwise adversely affect operations at the affected facilities. If 17 Table of Contents we are unable to attract and retain qualified professionals, our ability to adequately provide services to our residents and patients may decline and our ability to grow may be constrained. If we are unable to comply with state minimum staffing requirements at one or more of our facilities, we could be subject to fines or other sanctions. Increased attention to the quality of care provided in skilled nursing facilities has caused several states to mandate, and other states to consider mandating, staffing laws that require minimum nursing hours of direct care per resident per day. These minimum staffing requirements further increase the gap between demand for and supply of qualified professionals, and lead to higher labor costs. We operate a number of facilities in California, which enacted legislation aimed at establishing minimum staffing requirements for facilities operating in that state. This legislation required that the California Department of Public Health ("DPH"), promulgate regulations requiring each skilled nursing facility to provide a minimum of 3.2 nursing hours per patient day. The DPH finalized regulations in 2009 that required three 8-hour shifts for nurse-to-patient staffing, described documentation and notice requirements, and specified procedures for obtaining a waiver from per-shift staffing requirements at skilled nursing facilities. Although DPH finalized the regulations, initial implementation of the statute authorizing the regulations is contingent on an appropriation in the state's annual budged legislation or another statute. Because no appropriation was made and no additional statutes were enacted, the regulations did not become operational. Therefore, DPH will continue its practice of determining a facility's compliance with the 3.2 hour of nursing services per patient day measure in accordance with its internal policy and through on-site reviews conducted during periodic licensing and certification surveys and in response to complaints. If the DPH determines that a facility is out of compliance with this staffing measure, the DPH may issue a notice of deficiency, or a citation, depending on the impact on patient care. A citation carries with it the imposition of significant monetary fines. DPH has issued guidelines, implementing the provisions of newly enacted California laws, for state audits that verify compliance with the 3.2 nursing hours per patient day staffing requirements. If DPH determines under an audit that a facility has failed to meet the minimum staffing requirement for between 5% and 49% of the audited days, a significant administrative monetary penalty will be assessed. If DPH determines that a facility has failed to meet the minimum staffing requirement for more than 49% of the audited days, then a larger administrative monetary penalty will be assessed. The issuance of either a notice of deficiency or a citation requires the facility to prepare and implement an acceptable plan of correction. The Humboldt County Action included allegations that certain of our California skilled nursing facilities failed to meet state-mandated minimum staffing requirements. The Humboldt County Action resulted in a jury verdict against us and certain of our affiliated skilled nursing companies that awarded $677 million in damages. The case was ultimately settled in September 2010, pursuant to which we were required to deposit into escrow a total of $50 million to cover certain settlement costs, and we may be required to pay additional funds into the escrow to the extent that our costs of complying with the injunction issued against us as part of the settlement is less than the agreed threshold amount. For more information regarding the Humboldt County Action and the settlement, see Note 13, "Commitments and Contingencies-Litigation" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Our ability to satisfy any minimum staffing requirements depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals, including nurses, certified nurse's assistants and other personnel. Attracting and retaining this personnel is difficult, given a tight labor market for these professionals in many of the markets in which we operate. Furthermore, if states do not appropriate additional funds (through Medicaid program appropriations or otherwise) sufficient to pay for any additional operating costs resulting from minimum staffing requirements, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. If we fail to attract patients and residents and to compete effectively with other healthcare providers, our revenue and profitability may decline and we may incur losses. The healthcare services industry is highly competitive. Our skilled nursing facilities compete primarily on a local and regional basis with many long-term care providers, from national and regional chains to smaller providers owning as few as a single nursing center. We also compete under certain circumstances with inpatient rehabilitation facilities and long-term acute care hospitals. Our hospices and home health agencies also compete with local, regional and national companies. We anticipate additional competition in the future from accountable care organizations, as well as HMO's and similar healthcare systems that seek to provide a wider variety of healthcare services to their patients/members. Increased competition could limit our ability to attract and retain patients, maintain or increase rates or to expand our business. Our ability to compete successfully varies from location to location and depends on a number of factors, including the number of competitors in the local market, the types of services available, our local reputation for quality care of patients, achieve or maintain desired census levels, the commitment and expertise of our staff and physicians, our local service offerings and treatment programs, the cost of care in each locality, and the physical appearance, location, age and condition of our facilities. If we are unable to attract patients to our facilities and agencies, particularly high-acuity patients, then our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. Some of our competitors may have greater recognition and be more established in their respective communities than we are, and may have greater financial and other resources than we have. Competing long-term care companies may also offer newer facilities 18 Table of Contents or different programs or services than we do, which, combined with the foregoing factors, may result in our competitors being more attractive to our current patients, to potential patients and to referral sources. Some of our competitors may accept lower profit margins than we do, which could present significant price competition, particularly for managed care and private pay patients. We believe we utilize a conservative approach in complying with laws prohibiting kickbacks and referral payments to referral sources. However, some of our competitors may use more aggressive methods than we do with respect to obtaining patient referrals, and as a result competitors may from time to time obtain patient referrals that are not otherwise available to us. The primary competitive factors for our assisted living, rehabilitation therapy, hospice and home health care services are similar to those for our skilled nursing businesses and include reputation, the cost of services, the quality of services, responsiveness to patient/resident needs and the ability to provide support in other areas such as third-party reimbursement, information management and patient recordkeeping. Furthermore, given the relatively low barriers to entry and continuing healthcare cost containment pressures, we expect that the markets we service will become increasingly competitive in the future. Increased competition in the future could limit our ability to attract and retain patients and residents, maintain or increase our fees, or expand our business. Insurance coverage may become increasingly expensive and difficult to obtain for health care companies, and our self-insurance may expose us to significant losses. It may become more difficult and costly for us to obtain coverage for patient care liabilities and certain other risks, including property and casualty insurance. Insurance carriers may require health care companies to significantly increase their self-insured retention levels and/or pay substantially higher premiums for reduced coverage for most insurance coverages, including workers' compensation, employee healthcare and patient care liability. We self-insure a significant portion of our potential liabilities for several risks, including certain types of professional and general liability, workers' compensation and employee healthcare benefits. Due to our self-insured retentions under many of our professional and general liability, workers' compensation and employee healthcare benefits programs, including our election to self-insure against workers' compensation claims in Texas, there is no limit on the maximum number of claims or amount for which we can be liable in any policy period. We base our loss estimates and related accruals on actuarial analyses, which determine expected liabilities on an undiscounted basis, including incurred but not reported losses, based upon the available information on a given date. It is possible, however, for the ultimate amount of losses to exceed our estimates and related accruals, as well as our insurance limits as applicable. In the event our actual liability exceeds our estimates for any given period, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Additionally, we may from time to time need to increase our accruals as a result of future actuarial reviews and claims that may develop. Such increases could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. An adverse determination in legal proceedings, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If our referral sources fail to view us as an attractive health care provider, our patient base would likely decrease. We rely significantly on appropriate referrals from physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers in the communities in which we deliver our services to attract the kinds of patients we target. Our referral sources are not obligated to refer business to us and generally also refer business to other healthcare providers. We believe many of our referral sources refer business to us as a result of the quality of our patient service and our efforts to establish and build a relationship with them. If we lose, or fail to maintain, existing relationships with our referral resources, fail to develop new relationships or if we are perceived by our referral sources for any reason as not providing high quality patient care, our volume of referrals would likely decrease, the quality of our patient mix could suffer and our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we do not achieve or maintain a reputation for providing high quality of care, our business may be negatively affected. Our ability to achieve and maintain a reputation for providing high quality of care to our patients at each of our skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, or through our rehabilitation therapy, hospice and home health businesses, is important to our ability to attract and retain patients, particularly high-acuity patients. In some instances, our referral sources are affiliated with health care systems that may have affiliated businesses that offer services that compete with ours, and the frequency of this occurring may increase in the future as accountable care organizations are formed in the markets we serve. We believe that the perception of our quality of care by a potential patient or potential patient's family seeking to contract for our services is influenced by a variety of factors, including doctor and other healthcare professional referrals, community information and referral services, newspapers and other print and electronic media, results of patient surveys, recommendations from family and friends, and quality care statistics or rating systems compiled and published by CMS or other industry data. Through our focus on retaining high quality staffing, reviewing feedback and surveys from our patients and referral sources to highlight areas of improvement and integrating our service offerings at each of our facilities, we seek to maintain and improve on the outcomes from each of the factors listed above in order to build and maintain a strong reputation at our facilities. If any of our companies 19 Table of Contents fail to achieve or maintain a reputation for providing high-quality care, or is perceived to provide a lower quality of care than competitors within the same geographic area, our ability to attract and retain patients would be adversely affected. If our businesses fail to maintain a strong reputation in the areas in which we operate, our business, revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. We may be unable to reduce costs to offset decreases in our patient census levels or other expenses completely. We depend on implementing adequate cost management initiatives in response to fluctuations in levels of patient census in our businesses in order to maintain our current cash flow and earnings levels. Fluctuation in our patient census levels may become more common as we increase our emphasis in our skilled nursing facilities on patients with shorter stays but higher acuities. A decline in patient census levels would likely result in decreased revenue. If we are unable to put in place corresponding reductions in costs in response to decreases in our patient census or other revenue shortfalls, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We may not be fully reimbursed for all services that our skilled nursing facilities are able to bill through Medicare's consolidated billing requirements. Skilled nursing facilities are required to bill Medicare on a consolidated basis for certain items and services that they furnish to patients and residents, regardless of the amount or costs of services that the patients and residents actually receive. The consolidated billing requirement essentially confers on the skilled nursing facility itself the Medicare billing responsibility for the entire package of care that its residents receive in these situations. Federal law also requires that post-hospitalization skilled nursing services be bundled into the hospital's Diagnostic Related Group ("DRG") payment in certain circumstances. Where this rule applies, the hospital and the skilled nursing facility must, in effect, divide the payment which otherwise would have been paid to the hospital alone for the patient's treatment, and no additional funds are paid by Medicare for skilled nursing care of the patient. This requirement may, in instances where it is applicable, have a negative effect on skilled nursing facility utilization/census and payments, either because hospitals may find it difficult to place patients in skilled nursing facilities which will not be paid as they previously were, or because hospitals are reluctant to discharge patients to skilled nursing facilities and lose a portion of the payment that the hospital would otherwise receive. This bundling requirement could be extended to more DRGs in the future, which could exacerbate the potentially negative impact on skilled nursing facility utilization/census and payments. As a result of the bundling requirements we may not be fully reimbursed for all services that a facility bills through consolidated billing, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Consolidation of managed care organizations and other third-party payors or reductions in reimbursement from these payors may adversely affect our revenue and income or cause us to incur losses. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of healthcare services. Consequently, the healthcare needs of a large percentage of the United States population are increasingly served by a small number of managed care organizations. These organizations generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. These organizations have become an increasingly important source of revenue and referrals for us. To the extent that such organizations terminate us as a preferred provider or engage our competitors as a preferred or exclusive provider, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, private third-party payors, including managed care payors, are continuing their efforts to control healthcare costs through direct contracts with healthcare providers, increased utilization reviews, or reviews of the propriety of, and charges for, services provided, and greater enrollment in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. As these private payors increase their purchasing power, they are demanding discounted fee structures and the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk associated with the provision of care. Significant reductions in reimbursement from these sources could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Delays in reimbursement may cause liquidity problems. If we have information systems problems or payment or other issues arise with Medicare, Medicaid or other payors that affect the amount or timeliness of reimbursements, we may encounter delays in our payment cycle. Any significant payment timing delay could cause us to experience working capital shortages. As a result, working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our consolidated results of operations and liquidity. Our working capital management procedures may not successfully mitigate the effects of any delays in our receipt of payments or reimbursements. Accordingly, such delays could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Our rehabilitation and other related healthcare services are also subject to delays in reimbursement, as we act as vendors to other providers who in turn must wait for reimbursement from other third-party payors. Each of these customers is therefore subject to the same potential delays to which our nursing homes are subject, meaning any such delays would further delay the date we would receive payment for the provision of our related healthcare services. To the extent we grow and expand the rehabilitation and other complementary services that we offer to third parties, we may incur increasing delays in payment for these services, and these payment delays could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We may also 20 Table of Contents experience delays in reimbursement related to change of ownership applications for our acquired facilities, as well as changes in fiscal intermediaries. Our success is dependent upon retaining key personnel. Our senior management team has extensive experience in the healthcare industry. We believe that they have been instrumental in guiding our businesses, instituting valuable performance and quality monitoring, and driving innovation. Accordingly, our future performance is substantially dependent upon the continued services of our senior management team. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have a material adverse effect upon us. Future acquisitions may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We intend to selectively pursue acquisitions of skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, home health companies, hospice agencies and other related healthcare operations. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and additional expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel and accounting and information systems, or in realizing projected efficiencies and cost savings; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; entry into markets in which we may have limited or no experience; increasing our indebtedness and limiting our ability to access additional capital when needed; assumption of unknown liabilities or regulatory issues of acquired companies, including failure to comply with healthcare regulations or to establish internal financial controls; and straining of our resources, including internal controls relating to information and accounting systems, regulatory compliance, logistics and others. Furthermore, certain of the foregoing risks could be exacerbated when combined with other growth measures that we may pursue. Global economic conditions may impact our ability to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all and our ability to expand our business may be harmed. Recent global market and economic conditions have been very challenging with tight credit conditions and slow or negative economic growth in most major economies generally expected to continue in 2013 and possibly beyond. Ongoing concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and widespread economic recession or stagnation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, sovereign debt issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global real estate and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility, uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. These conditions, combined with volatile prices for energy, food and other commodities, unstable business and consumer confidence, and significant unemployment, have contributed to pronounced economic volatility. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets, interest rate fluctuations and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines or stagnation in business and consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. If we are not able to timely retire or refinance our senior secured credit facility on acceptable terms at or before its stated maturity in April 2015 (for the revolving portion) and April 2016 (for the term portion), due to market conditions or otherwise, our liquidity, financial condition, business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. If our ability to borrow under our senior secured credit facility is insufficient for our capital requirements, we will be required to seek additional sources of financing, including issuing equity, which may be dilutive to our current stockholders or incurring additional debt. Our ability to incur additional debt is subject to the restrictions in our senior secured credit facility. There can be no assurance that the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facility will permit us to borrow the funds that we need to finance our operations, or that additional debt will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, market conditions may impede our ability to secure additional sources of financing, whether through the extension of our existing senior secured credit facility or by accessing the debt and/or equity markets. If we are unable to obtain funds sufficient to finance our capital requirements, we may have to forego opportunities to expand our business, including the acquisition or development of additional or expanded facilities. 21 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. We have now and will for the foreseeable future continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2012, our total indebtedness was approximately $449.0 million . Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; increase the cost or limit the availability of additional financing, if needed or desired, to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan; require us to maintain debt coverage and financial ratios at specified levels, reducing our financial flexibility; and limit our ability to make strategic acquisitions and develop new or expanded facilities. In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required debt payments, or if we fail to comply with the various covenants and requirements of our senior secured credit facility or other existing or future indebtedness, we would be in default, which could permit the holders of our indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facility, to accelerate the maturity of indebtedness, as the case may be. Any default under our senior secured credit facility, or our other existing or future indebtedness, as well as any of the above-listed factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur more debt. This could intensify the risks associated with this indebtedness. The terms of our senior secured credit facility contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these exceptions could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. The more we become leveraged, the more we become exposed to the risks described above under Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. Floating rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are subject to floating rates of interest over an interest rate floor of 1.5%. If interest rates increase over the floor, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows would correspondingly decrease. We have entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $70.0 million, which effectively fixes the interest rate on that portion of our borrowings under our first lien credit agreement at 7.5% from January 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013. There can be no assurance that when the interest rate cap and swap agreements expire we will be able to enter into similar replacement hedging arrangements on favorable terms or at all. As of April 12, 2012, we increased the size of the term loan by $100.0 million. The incremental term loan bears interest at LIBOR (subject to a floor of 1.50%) plus a margin of 5.25%. As part of the refinancing, the interest rate on the existing term loan was amended to match the interest rate of the incremental term loan. The interest rate on the existing revolving credit facility was also amended to LIBOR plus a margin of 4.50%. There is no longer a LIBOR floor on the revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2012, $341.6 million of term debt borrowings under our senior secured credit facility is not hedged and is currently subject to floating rates of interest. Our operations are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety regulations, which could subject us to fines, penalties and increased operational costs. We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Regulatory requirements faced by healthcare providers such as us include those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, air and water quality control, occupational health and safety (such as standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics), management and disposal of low-level radioactive medical waste, biohazards and other wastes, management of explosive or combustible gases, such as oxygen, specific regulatory requirements applicable to asbestos, lead-based paints, polychlorinated biphenyls and mold, other occupational hazards associated with our workplaces, and providing notice to employees and members of the public about our use and storage of regulated or hazardous materials and wastes. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to fines, penalties and increased operational costs. Moreover, changes in existing requirements or more stringent enforcement of them, as well as discovery of currently unknown conditions 22 Table of Contents at our owned or leased facilities, could result in additional cost and potential liabilities, including liability for conducting cleanup, and there can be no guarantee that such increased expenditures would not be significant. A portion of our workforce is unionized and our operations may be adversely affected by work stoppages, strikes or other collective actions. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 500 of our 15,000 active employees were represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. In addition, certain labor unions have publicly stated that they are concentrating their organizing efforts within the long-term healthcare industry. We cannot predict the effect that continued union representation or future organizational activities will have on our business or future operations. There can be no assurance that we will not experience a material work stoppage in the future. Disasters and similar events may seriously harm our business. Natural and man-made disasters and similar events, including terrorist attacks and acts of nature such as hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, floods and wildfires, may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees and our facilities, which could have an adverse impact on our patients and our business. In order to provide care for our patients, we are dependent on consistent and reliable delivery of food, pharmaceuticals, utilities and other goods to our facilities, and the availability of employees to provide services at our facilities and other locations. If the delivery of goods or the ability of employees to reach our facilities and patients were interrupted in any material respect due to a natural disaster or other reasons, it would have a significant impact on our business. For example, in connection with Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans, several nursing home operators unaffiliated with us were accused of not properly caring for their residents, which resulted in, among other things, criminal charges being filed against the proprietors of those facilities. Furthermore, the impact, or impending threat, of a natural disaster has in the past and may in the future require that we evacuate one or more facilities, which would be costly and would involve risks, including potentially fatal risks, for the patients and employees. The impact of disasters and similar events is inherently uncertain. Such events could harm our patients and employees, severely damage or destroy one or more of our facilities, harm our business, reputation and financial performance, or otherwise cause our business to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict. The operation of our business is dependent on effective and secure information systems. We depend on several information technology systems for the efficient functioning of our business. The software programs supporting these systems are licensed to us by independent software developers. Our inability or the inability of these developers, to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. In addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. Additionally, we maintain information necessary to conduct our business, including confidential and proprietary information as well as personal information regarding our patients, employees and others with whom we do business, in digital form. Data maintained in digital form is subject to the risk of tampering, theft and unauthorized access. We develop and maintain systems to prevent this from occurring, but the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Moreover, despite our efforts, the possibility of tampering, theft and other unauthorized access cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with each of these remain. If our information technology systems are compromised and personal or other protected information regarding patients, employees or others with whom we do business is stolen, tampered with or otherwise improperly accessed, our ability to conduct our business and our reputation may be impaired. If personal or other protected information of our patients, employees or others with whom we do business is tampered with, stolen or otherwise improperly accessed, and we may incur significant costs to remediate possible injury to the affected persons, compensate the affected persons, pay any applicable fines, or take other action with respect to judicial or regulatory actions arising out of the incident, including under HIPAA or the HITECH Act, as applicable. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock We are controlled by Onex Corporation, whose interests may conflict with yours. Our Class A common stock has one vote per share, while our Class B common stock has ten votes per share, on all matters voted on by our stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, Onex Corporation, its affiliates and certain of our directors and members of our senior management who are party to a voting agreement with an affiliate of Onex Corporation owned shares of common stock representing over 75.0% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Onex Corporation generally has the power to control the outcome of matters on which stockholders are entitled to vote. Such matters include the election and removal of directors, the adoption or amendment of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, possible mergers, corporate control contests and significant transactions. Through its control of elections to our 23 Table of Contents board of directors, Onex Corporation may also have the ability to appoint or replace our senior management and cause us to issue additional shares of our common stock or repurchase common stock, declare dividends or take other actions. Onex Corporation may make decisions regarding our company and business that are opposed to our other stockholders interests or with which they disagree. Onex Corporation may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if the change of control would benefit our other stockholders, which could deprive our other stockholders of the opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A common stock. The significant concentration of stock ownership and voting power may also adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock due to investors perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. To the extent that the interests of our public stockholders are harmed by the actions of Onex Corporation, the price of our Class A common stock may be harmed. Additionally, Onex Corporation is in the business of making investments in companies and currently holds, and may from time to time in the future acquire, controlling interests in businesses engaged in the healthcare industries that complement or directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. Further, if it pursues such acquisitions in the healthcare industry, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. If our stock price is volatile, purchasers of our Class A common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The stock market in general often experiences substantial volatility that is seemingly unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. The price for our Class A common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: the depth and liquidity of the market for our Class A common stock; developments generally affecting the healthcare industry; investor perceptions of us and our business; actions by institutional or other large stockholders; strategic actions, such as acquisitions or restructurings, or the introduction of new services by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; litigation and governmental investigations; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; adverse conditions in the financial markets, state and federal government or general economic conditions, including those resulting from statewide, national or global financial and deficit considerations, overall market conditions, war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; sales of Class B common stock by Onex, us or members of our management team; additions or departures of key personnel; and our results of operations, financial performance and future prospects. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our Class A common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of Class A common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our Class A common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending or settling the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock is significantly influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our available cash, if any, for use as working capital and for other general purposes, including to service or repay our debt and to fund the operation and expansion of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. 24 Table of Contents We are a controlled company within the meaning of NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Onex Corporation and its affiliates control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that: a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; the nominating and corporate governance committee be entirely composed of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committees purpose and responsibilities; the compensation committee be entirely composed of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committees purpose and responsibilities; and there be an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. We elect to be treated as a controlled company and thus utilize some of these exemptions. In addition, although we currently have a board composed of a majority of independent directors and have adopted charters for our audit, corporate governance, quality and compliance and compensation committees, and intend to conduct annual performance evaluations for these committees, none of these committees are composed entirely of independent directors, except for our audit committee. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of NYSE corporate governance requirements. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage transactions resulting in a change in control, which may negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition to the effect that the concentration of ownership and voting power in our significant stockholders may have, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may enable our management to resist a change in control. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a change in the ownership of our company or a change in our management, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock. The provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws include: our board of directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock, commonly referred to as blank check preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock; advance notice requirements for stockholders to nominate individuals to serve on our board of directors or to submit proposals that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; provided, that prior to the date that the total number of outstanding shares of our Class B common stock is less than 10% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding, which we refer to as the "Transition Date," no such requirement is required for holders of at least 10% of our outstanding Class B common stock; our board of directors is classified so not all of the members of our board of directors are elected at one time, which may make it more difficult for a person who acquires control of a majority of our outstanding voting stock to replace our directors; following the Transition Date, stockholder action by written consent will be prohibited; special meetings of the stockholders are permitted to be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, our chief executive officer or by a majority of our board of directors; stockholders are not permitted to cumulate their votes for the election of directors; newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors or vacancies on our board of directors will be filled only by majority vote of the remaining directors; our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and stockholders are permitted to amend our bylaws only upon receiving at least 66 2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. After the Transition Date, we will also be subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and rested certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could discourage acquisition proposals and make it more difficult or expensive for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties As of December 31, 2012 , our 96 long-term care facilities consisted of 73 of which were owned, 23 of which were leased, and five which were owned but have been leased to an unaffiliated third party operator. As of December 31, 2012 , our operated facilities had a total of 10,409 licensed beds. The following table provides information by state as of December 31, 2012 regarding the skilled nursing and assisted living facilities that we owned and leased. Owned Facilities Leased Facilities Total Facilities Number Licensed Beds Number Licensed Beds Number Licensed Beds California 12 1,384 13 1,635 25 3,019 Kansas 26 1,439 26 1,439 Texas 22 3,199 22 3,199 Nevada 2 134 1 190 3 324 Missouri 7 1,007 7 1,007 New Mexico 2 208 8 968 10 1,176 Iowa 2 164 2 164 Nebraska 1 81 1 81 Total 73 7,535 23 2,874 96 10,409 Skilled nursing 52 6,489 22 2,692 74 9,181 Assisted living 21 1,046 1 182 22 1,228 Skilled nursing facilities leased to unaffiliated third party operator 5 5 Our executive offices are located in Foothill Ranch, California, where we lease office space, a portion of which is utilized for the administrative functions of our businesses. The term of this lease expires in 2017. We have an option to renew our lease at this location for an additional five-year term. Item 3. Legal Proceedings For information regarding certain pending legal proceedings to which we are a party or our property is subject, see Note 13 , " Commitments and ContingenciesLitigation ," to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report, which is incorporated herein by reference. We are party to various legal actions and administrative proceedings and are subject to various claims arising in the ordinary course of business, including without limitation claims that our services have resulted in injury or death to patients who receive care from our businesses and claims related to employment, staffing requirements and commercial matters. Although we intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters, there can be no assurance that the outcomes of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry. We are subject to ongoing regulatory oversight by state and federal regulatory authorities. Actual or alleged failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements could subject us to civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or restitutionary relief, and reimbursement authorities could seek the suspension or exclusion of the offending provider or individual from participation in government healthcare programs and could lead to recoupment claims on prior payments by government healthcare programs. Adverse determinations in legal and regulatory investigations, actions and proceedings, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 26 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our Class A common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "SKH." Information with respect to sales prices and record holders of our Class A common stock is set forth below. There is no established trading market for our Class B common stock. Market Information The following table sets forth, for the indicated quarterly periods, the high and low sale prices of our Class A common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange: Year Ended December 31, 2012 High ($) Low ($) First quarter 7.99 5.08 Second quarter 8.41 5.13 Third quarter 7.07 4.97 Fourth quarter 8.01 5.97 Year Ended December 31, 2011 High ($) Low ($) First quarter 15.10 8.81 Second quarter 15.93 9.05 Third quarter 11.00 3.30 Fourth quarter 5.57 3.55 On February 7, 2013, the closing sales price of our Class A common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was $5.28 per share. On that date, there were 7 holders of record of our Class A common stock and 16 holders of record of our Class B common stock. Dividend Payment We did not declare or pay cash dividends in either 2012 or 2011 on our Class A common stock or Class B common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our available cash, if any, for use as working capital and for other general purposes, including to service or repay our debt and to fund the operation and expansion of our business. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers The table below sets forth information with respect to purchases of our Class A common stock made by us or on our behalf during the quarter ended December 31, 2012 : Period Total Number of Shares Purchased(1) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1 - 31, 2012 $ n/a n/a November 1 - 30, 2012 315 $ 7.64 n/a n/a December 1 - 31, 2012 $ n/a n/a Total: 315 $ 7.64 n/a n/a (1) Reflects shares forfeited to us upon the vesting of restricted stock granted to participants in our 2007 Incentive Award Plan, to satisfy applicable tax withholding obligations with respect to such vesting. We did not have any publicly announced plans or programs to purchase our Class A common stock in the quarter ended December 31, 2012 . Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans Table of Contents We primarily issue stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units under our share-based compensation plans, which are part of a broad-based, long-term retention program that is intended to attract and retain talented employees and directors, and align stockholder and employee interests. Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. 2007 Incentive Award Plan, or 2007 Plan, we grant stock-based awards, including stock options, restricted stock awards, and restricted stock units, to employees and directors. Options are granted to purchase shares of our Class A common stock at a price not less than the fair market value of our Class A common stock on the date of grant. The 2007 Plan provides for the grant of incentive and non-qualified stock options as well as stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units and shares, and other stock-based awards. Generally, option grants and restricted stock awards to employees vest over four years and are exercisable for up to 10 years from the grant date. Our awards to certain executives have performance based criteria that must be met in order for the awards to vest. The Board of Directors may terminate the 2007 Plan at any time. Only shares of our Class A common stock can be issued or transferred pursuant to awards under the 2007 Plan. Additional information regarding our stock option plans and plan activity for fiscal 2012 , 2011 and 2010 is provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report, see Note 11, "Stock-Based Compensation." The equity compensation plan information set forth in Part III, Item 12 " Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" of this report contains information concerning securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans. Stock Performance Graph The following graph illustrates a comparison of the total cumulative stockholder return on our Class A common stock since December 31, 2007, to two indices: the S&P 500 and the Morningstar Long-Term Care Index. The graph assumes an initial investment of $100 on December 31, 2007, assuming reinvestment of dividends, if any. The comparisons in the graph are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our Class A common stock. The following graph and related information shall not be deemed "soliciting material" or deemed to be "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any SEC filing unless we specifically incorporate it by reference into the particular filing. COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN ON INVESTMENT Assuming $100 Investment on December 31, 2007 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 57.69 $ 50.92 $ 61.38 $ 37.32 $ 43.54 S&P 500 100.00 63.00 79.67 91.68 93.61 108.59 Morningstar LTC Index 100.00 34.08 59.70 73.29 60.44 83.92 28 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data We derived the selected historical consolidated financial data below for each of the years ended December 31, 2012 , 2011 , and 2010 , and as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 , from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. We derived the selected historical consolidated financial data for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and as of December 31, 2010 , 2009 and 2008 from our consolidated financial statements not included in this report. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future performance. Our selected historical consolidated statements of operations have been recast to reflect our Ventura, California hospice business, which we closed in September 2009, as discontinued operations. Please refer to the information set forth below in conjunction with other sections of this report, including Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated historical financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA Years ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data Revenue $ 872,623 $ 868,433 $ 818,962 $ 754,913 $ 728,350 Expenses 799,130 1,032,627 780,621 842,048 643,365 Total other (expenses) income, net (39,458 ) (36,824 ) (38,186 ) (28,966 ) (33,848 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income taxes 34,035 (201,018 ) 155 (116,101 ) 51,137 Provision for income taxes 12,438 3,025 1,995 17,410 17,689 Income (loss) before discontinued operations and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 21,597 (204,043 ) (1,840 ) (133,511 ) 33,448 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (390 ) Net income (loss) 21,597 (204,043 ) (1,840 ) (133,901 ) 33,448 Earnings (loss) Per Share Data: Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, basic $ 0.58 $ (5.49 ) $ (0.05 ) $ (3.63 ) $ 0.91 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, diluted $ 0.57 $ (5.49 ) $ (0.05 ) $ (3.63 ) $ 0.90 Weighted-average common shares outstanding, basic 37,389 37,145 36,988 36,914 36,573 Weighted-average common shares outstanding, diluted 37,589 37,145 36,988 36,914 36,894 Other Financial Data Capital expenditures (excluding acquisitions) $ (19,522 ) $ (16,298 ) $ (27,736 ) $ (41,155 ) $ (49,626 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 42,676 99,380 35,391 75,021 67,489 Net cash used in investing activities (19,525 ) (39,917 ) (76,405 ) (46,168 ) (72,853 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (37,165 ) (47,638 ) 41,678 (27,762 ) 2,399 EBITDA(1) 96,683 (137,509 ) 61,276 (61,316 ) 108,696 EBITDA margin(1) 11.1 % (15.8 )% 7.5 % (8.1 )% 14.9 % Adjusted EBITDA(1) 100,809 130,042 120,248 109,735 108,758 Adjusted EBITDA margin(1) 11.6 % 15.0 % 14.7 % 14.5 % 14.9 % EBITDAR(2) 115,190 (119,110 ) 80,314 (43,179 ) 126,944 EBITDAR margin(2) 13.2 % (13.7 )% 9.8 % (5.7 )% 17.4 % Adjusted EBITDAR(2) 119,316 148,441 139,286 127,872 127,006 Adjusted EBITDAR margin(2) 13.7 % 17.1 % 17.0 % 16.9 % 17.4 % 29 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (in thousands) Balance Sheet Data Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,003 $ 16,017 $ 4,192 $ 3,527 $ 2,047 Working capital 34,522 41,336 49,946 42,564 45,976 Property and equipment and leased facility assets, net 380,658 386,294 387,322 373,211 346,466 Total assets 682,636 697,199 945,998 857,471 1,007,377 Long-term debt (including current portion and the revolving credit facility) 448,967 475,483 519,963 458,679 470,261 Total stockholders equity 99,831 73,596 274,740 273,380 403,255 ________________ Notes (1) We define EBITDA as net income (loss) before depreciation, amortization and interest expense (net of interest income) and the provision for income taxes. EBTDA margin is EBITDA as a percentage of revenue. Adjusted EBITDA is EBITDA adjusted for non-core business items, which for the periods presented in this report includes gains or losses on debt retirement costs, impairment charges, litigation settlement costs, the disposal of property and equipment, expenses related to the exploration of strategic alternatives, and exit costs related to the disposition of certain of our operations in Northern California (each to the extent applicable in the appropriate period.) (2) We define EBITDAR as net income (loss) before depreciation, amortization, interest expense (net of interest income), the provision for income taxes and rent cost of revenue. EBITDAR margin is EBITDAR as a percentage of revenue. Adjusted EBITDAR is EBITDAR adjusted for the non-core business items listed above for the definition of Adjusted EBITDA (each to the extent applicable in the appropriate period.) We believe that the presentation of EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR provides useful information regarding our operational performance because they enhance the overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of our core business activities. Specifically, we believe that a report of EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR provides consistency in our financial reporting and provides a basis for the comparison of results of core business operations between our current, past and future periods. EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR are primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods, including trending and analyzing the core operating performance of our business from period-to-period without the effect of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") expenses, revenues and gains (losses) that we believe are unrelated to the day-to-day performance of our consolidated and segmented business. We also use EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR to benchmark the performance of our consolidated and segmented business against expected results, analyzing year-over-year trends as described below and to compare our operating performance to that of our competitors. Management, including operating company based management, uses EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR to assess the performance of our core business operations, to prepare operating budgets and to measure our performance against those budgets on a consolidated and segment level. Segment management uses these metrics to measure performance on a business unit by business unit basis. We typically use Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR for these purposes on a consolidated basis as the adjustments to EBITDA and EBITDAR are not generally allocable to any individual business unit and we typically use EBITDA and EBITDAR to compare the operating performance of each skilled nursing facility, assisted living facility, or other business unit as well as to assess the performance of our operating segments. EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR are useful in this regard because they do not include such costs as interest expense (net of interest income), income taxes, depreciation and amortization expense, rent cost of revenue (in the case of EBITDAR and Adjusted EBITDAR) and special charges, which may vary from business unit to business unit and period-to-period depending upon various factors, including the method used to finance the business, the amount of debt that we have determined to incur, whether a facility is owned or leased, the date of acquisition of a facility or business, the original purchase price of a facility or business unit or the tax law of the state in which a business unit operates. We believe these types of charges are dependent on factors unrelated to the underlying business unit performance. As a result, we believe that the use of EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR provides a meaningful and consistent comparison of our underlying business units between periods by eliminating certain items required by U.S. GAAP which have little or no significance to their day-to-day operations. 30 Table of Contents Finally, we use Adjusted EBITDA to determine compliance with our debt covenants and assess our ability to borrow additional funds and to finance or expand operations. Our senior secured credit facility uses a measure substantially similar to Adjusted EBITDA as the basis for determining compliance with our financial covenants, specifically our minimum interest coverage ratio and our maximum total leverage ratio, and for determining the interest rate of our first lien term loan. For example, the senior secured credit facility includes adjustments to EBITDA for (i) gain or losses on sale of assets, (ii) the write-off of deferred financing costs of extinguished debt, (iii) pro forma adjustments for acquisitions to show a full year of EBITDA and interest expense, (iv) sponsorship fees paid to Onex which totals $0.5 million annually, (v) non-cash stock compensation and (vi) impairment of long-lived assets. Our noncompliance with these financial covenants could lead to acceleration of amounts due under our senior secured credit facility. Despite the importance of these measures in analyzing our underlying business, maintaining our financial requirements, designing incentive compensation and for our goal setting both on an aggregate and individual business level basis, EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR are non-GAAP financial measures that have no standardized meaning defined by U.S. GAAP. Therefore, our EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR measures have limitations as analytical tools, and they should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under U.S. GAAP. Some of these limitations are: they do not reflect our cash expenditures, or future requirements, for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; they do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; they do not reflect the interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our debt; they do not reflect any income tax payments we may be required to make; although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; they are not adjusted for all non-cash income or expense items that are reflected in our consolidated statements of cash flows; they do not reflect the impact on earnings of charges resulting from certain matters we consider not to be indicative of our ongoing operations; and other companies in our industry may calculate these measures differently than we do, which may limit their usefulness as comparative measures. We compensate for these limitations by using EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR only to supplement net income on a basis prepared in conformance with U.S. GAAP in order to provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business. Furthermore, the non-GAAP financial measures that we present may be different from the presentation of similar measures by other companies, so the comparability of the measures among companies may be limited. We strongly encourage investors to consider net income determined under U.S. GAAP as compared to EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR, and to perform their own analysis, as appropriate. The following table provides a reconciliation of our net income (loss), which is the most directly comparable financial measure presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP for the periods indicated, to EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDAR and Adjusted EBITDA: 31 Table of Contents Years ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (in thousands) Net income (loss) 21,597 (204,043 ) (1,840 ) (133,901 ) 33,448 Provision for income taxes 12,438 3,025 1,995 17,410 17,689 Depreciation and amortization 25,400 25,229 25,047 23,308 20,978 Interest expense, net of interest income 37,248 38,280 36,074 31,867 36,581 EBITDA 96,683 (137,509 ) 61,276 (61,316 ) 108,696 Rent cost of revenue 18,507 18,399 19,038 18,137 18,248 EBITDAR 115,190 (119,110 ) 80,314 (43,179 ) 126,944 EBITDA 96,683 (137,509 ) 61,276 (61,316 ) 108,696 Discontinued operations, net of tax(a) 390 Loss (gain) on sale of assets(b) 290 (2,243 ) 61 62 Impairment of long-lived assets(c) 270,478 170,600 Litigation settlement costs,(net of recoveries) (d) (4,488 ) 53,505 Debt retirement cost(e) 4,126 7,010 Acquisition and due diligence costs(f) 700 Expenses related to the exploration of strategic alternatives(g) 716 Exit costs related to Northern California divestiture(h) 820 Recovery of expenses related to the divestiture of Westside Campus of Care facility (i) (265 ) Adjusted EBITDA 100,809 130,042 120,248 109,735 108,758 Rent cost of revenue 18,507 18,399 19,038 18,137 18,248 Adjusted EBITDAR 119,316 148,441 139,286 127,872 127,006 ________________ Notes (a) In 2009, we closed our hospice operations located in Ventura, California, and, therefore, the results of this business have been classified as discontinued operations. (b) While unusual and non-recurring gains or losses on sales of assets are required under U.S. GAAP, these amounts are also not reflective of income and losses of the Company's underlying business. (c) During the third quarter of 2011, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $243.2 million with respect to the longterm care reporting unit, $24.3 million for the therapy services reporting unit and a $3.0 million impairment charge within the therapy services reporting unit related to the Hallmark Rehabilitation business's trade name. The impairment charges of long-lived assets are the result of the July 29, 2011 announcement by CMS regarding the Medicare rate reductions and program changes that went into effect October 1, 2011. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $170.6 million with respect to our long-term care reporting unit. The impairment charge was the result of the downturn in the expected future growth rates for governmental payors (based on patient mix and announced Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement reductions), and their effect on expected future cash flows. The impairment charges of long-lived assets are a non-cash accounting adjustment to our financial statements that does not affect our cash flows or our liquidity position. (d) In 2011, we recorded $4.5 million of insurance recoveries related to the litigation settlement expense of $53.5 million recorded during the third quarter of 2010. The $53.5 million was comprised of a $50.0 million cash settlement related to the Humboldt County Action described in " Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies-Litigation" and $3.0 million of related legal expenses, and $0.5 million in costs related to a securities class action related to our initial public offering (which was settled in September 2010). (e) In the second quarter of 2012, we refinanced our senior subordinated notes (the "2014 Notes") and recorded debt retirement cost of $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. During the second quarter of 2010, we recorded debt retirement cost of $7.0 million in conjunction with the refinancing of our senior secured credit facility due to the expensing of deferred financing fees of $6.6 million and $0.4 million of interest rate swap termination costs as the swaps were incompatible with the refinanced credit facility. (f) In 2010, hospice and home health costs of services included $0.7 million of non-recurring acquisition and due diligence related costs. 32 Table of Contents (g) On April 11, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors had engaged J.P. Morgan Securities LLC to assist exploring strategic alternatives to maximize stockholder value, including a potential sale of our real estate assets or the whole company. On August 2, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors determined to conclude the previously-announced exploration of strategic alternatives. We recorded $0.7 million in expenses related to the exploration of strategic alternatives. (h) In April 2011, five of our subsidiaries that operate skilled nursing facilities in northern California transferred their operations to an unaffiliated third party skilled nursing facility operator. Another subsidiary of ours retained ownership of the real estate where the operations are located and has signed a 10-year lease with two 10-year extension options with the new operator. We recorded $0.8 million in exit costs in connection with the foregoing transaction. (i) During the third quarter of 2011, we recorded a recovery of approximately $0.3 million in expenses related to the divestiture of Westside Campus of Care skilled nursing facility operations in Texas in December 2010. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to assist in understanding and assessing the trends and significant changes in our results of operations and financial condition. Historical results may not indicate future performance. Our forward-looking statements, which reflect our current views about future events, are based on assumptions and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these statements. Factors that may cause differences between actual results and those contemplated by forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this report on Form 10-K. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with Selected Financial Data in Item 6 of this report on Form 10-K and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. Business Overview We are a holding company with subsidiaries that operate skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, hospices, home health providers and a rehabilitation therapy business. These subsidiaries focus on providing high-quality care to our patients. We have an administrative service company that provides a full complement of administrative and consultative services that allows our affiliated operators and third-party operators with whom we contract to better focus on delivery of healthcare services. We also have one such service agreement with an unrelated facility operator. Our subsidiaries that operate skilled nursing facilities have a strong commitment to treating patients who require a high level of skilled nursing care and extensive rehabilitation therapy, whom we refer to as high-acuity patients. As of December 31, 2012 , we operated 74 skilled nursing and 22 assisted living owned or leased facilities, together comprising 10,409 licensed beds. We also lease five skilled nursing facilities in California to an unaffiliated third party operator. Our skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, approximately 77% of which we own, are located in California, Texas, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada and New Mexico, and are generally clustered in large urban or suburban markets. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2012 , we generated approximately 72% of our revenue from our skilled nursing facilities, including our integrated rehabilitation therapy services at these facilities. The remainder of our revenue is generated from our assisted living services, rehabilitation therapy services provided to third-party facilities, hospice care and home health services, and lease of five skilled nursing facilities to an unaffiliated third party operator. Our revenue was $872.6 million and $868.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. To increase our revenue, we focus on acquiring existing facilities and businesses, developing new facilities and businesses, and improving our occupancy (census) rate and our skilled mix, which is the number of Medicare and managed care patient days at our skilled nursing facilities divided by the total number of patient days at our skilled nursing facilities for any given period. Medicare and managed care payors typically provide higher reimbursement than other payors because patients in these programs typically require a greater level of care and service. We operate our business in three reportable operating segments: (1) long-term care services, which includes the operation of skilled nursing and assisted living facilities and is the most significant portion of our business; (2) therapy services, which includes our rehabilitation therapy services business; and (3) hospice and home health services, which includes our hospice and home health businesses. The other category includes general and administrative items. Our reporting segments are business units that offer different services, and that are managed separately due to the nature of services provided. Acquisitions, Developments, and Divestiture In May 2010, we acquired substantially all of the assets of five Medicare-certified hospice companies and four Medicare-certified home health companies located in Arizona, Idaho, Montana and Nevada, referred to herein as the Hospice/Home Health Acquisition. 33 Table of Contents In July 2010, we admitted our first patients to our newly-constructed skilled nursing facility in Fort Worth, Texas, the Fort Worth Center of Rehabilitation. This facility added 136 beds to our operations. In December 2010, we sold our Westside Campus of Care skilled nursing facility and operations in Texas and purchased three previously leased facilities: St. Luke Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center and Woodland Care Center, located in California, and St. Joseph Transitional Rehabilitation Center in Nevada. We recorded a net gain of $1.8 million related to these transactions. In April 2011, five of our subsidiaries that operate skilled nursing facilities in northern California transferred their operations to an unaffiliated third party skilled nursing facility operator. Another subsidiary of ours retained ownership of the real estate where the operations are located, and signed a 10-year lease with two 10-year extension options with the new operator. We recorded $0.8 million in exit costs in connection with the foregoing transaction. In April 2011, a wholly owned subsidiary of our business, the Rehabilitation Center of Omaha, LLC ("RCO"), signed an operating lease for a skilled nursing and assisted living facility in Omaha, Nebraska for 10 years with two additional 5-year extensions. The lease also provides RCO with a purchase option and the landlord with a sale option, beginning in year six of the lease In July 2011, we acquired Altura Homecare & Rehab, a home health care agency serving the Albuquerque, New Mexico market. In July 2011, we acquired the real property and related operations of Willow Creek Memory Care at San Martin in Las Vegas, Nevada, which is currently licensed for 62 memory care assisted living beds. The newly acquired facility now operates as Vintage Park at San Martin. In October 2011, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Cornerstone Hospice, Inc., which provides hospice services in the Colton, California and Phoenix, Arizona areas. Key Financial Performance Indicators We manage the fiscal aspects of our business by monitoring certain key performance indicators that affect our revenue and profitability. The most important key performance indicators for our business are: Average daily number of patientsthe total number of patients at our skilled nursing facilities in a period divided by the number of days in that period. Average daily ratesrevenue per patient per day for Medicare or managed care, Medicaid and private pay and other, calculated as total revenue for Medicare or managed care, Medicaid and private pay and other at our skilled nursing facilities divided by actual patient days for that revenue source for any given period. EBITDAnet income (loss) before depreciation, amortization and interest expense (net of interest income) and the provision for income taxes. Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA means EBITDA as adjusted for non-core business items. See footnote 1 under Item 6 of this report, " Selected Financial Data ," for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDARnet income (loss) before depreciation, amortization and interest expenses (net of interest income), the provision for income taxes and rent cost of revenue. Additionally, Adjusted EBITDAR means EBITDAR as adjusted for the non-core business items reflected in Adjusted EBITDA. See footnote 2 under Item 6 of this report, " Selected Financial Data ," for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with, EBITDAR and Adjusted EBITDAR. Number of facilities and licensed bedsthe total number of skilled nursing facilities and assisted living facilities that we own or operate and the total number of licensed beds associated with our skilled nursing facilities and the total number of units associated with our assisted living facilities. Occupancy percentagethe average daily ratio during a measurement period of the total number of patients occupying beds in a skilled nursing facility to the number of available beds in the skilled nursing facility. During any measurement period, the number of licensed beds in a skilled nursing facility that are actually available to us may be less than the actual licensed bed capacity due to, among other things, bed de-certifications. Percentage of facilities ownedthe number of skilled nursing facilities and assisted living facilities that we own as a percentage of the total number of facilities we operate. We believe that our success is positively influenced by the significant level of ownership of the facilities we operate. Quality mixthe amount of non-Medicaid revenue from each of our business units as a percentage of total revenue. In most states, Medicaid rates are generally the lowest of all payor types. 34 Table of Contents Skilled mixthe number of Medicare and managed care patient days at our skilled nursing facilities divided by the total number of patient days at our skilled nursing facilities for any given period. The following tables summarize, for each of the periods indicated, our payor sources, quality mix, occupancy percentage, skilled mix, EBITDA, EBITDAR, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR and average daily rates and, at the end of the periods indicated, the number of facilities operated by us, the number of facilities that we own and lease, the total number of licensed beds and our total number of available beds: Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Occupancy statistics (skilled nursing facilities): Available beds in service at end of period 8,809 8,809 9,156 Available patient days 3,224,062 3,249,449 3,391,343 Actual patient days 2,675,234 2,698,994 2,819,609 Occupancy percentage 83.0 % 83.1 % 83.1 % Skilled mix 22.1 % 23.2 % 22.7 % Average daily number of patients 7,309 7,395 7,725 Hospice average daily census 1,397 1,269 955 Home health episodic-based admissions 8,341 5,239 2,472 Home health episodic-based recertifications 1,624 885 453 EBITDA(1) (in thousands) $ 96,683 $ (137,509 ) $ 61,276 Adjusted EBITDA(1) (in thousands) $ 100,809 $ 130,042 $ 120,248 EBITDAR(2) (in thousands) $ 115,190 $ (119,110 ) $ 80,314 Adjusted EBITDAR(2) (in thousands) $ 119,316 $ 148,441 $ 139,286 Revenue per patient day (skilled nursing facilities prior to intercompany eliminations) LTC only Medicare (Part A) $ 512 $ 558 $ 515 Medicare blended rate (Part A & B) 573 616 576 Managed care (Part A) 382 386 379 Managed care blended rate (Part A & B) 391 391 379 Medicaid 160 154 151 Private and other 172 173 169 Weighted-average $ 236 $ 246 $ 237 Patient days by payor (skilled nursing facilities) Medicare 349,205 404,419 442,902 Managed Care 240,951 221,796 198,308 Total skilled mix days 590,156 626,215 641,210 Private and other 428,823 435,257 462,644 Medicaid 1,656,255 1,637,522 1,715,755 Total days 2,675,234 2,698,994 2,819,609 Patient days as a percentage of total patient days (skilled nursing facilities) Medicare 13.1 % 15.0 % 15.7 % Managed Care 9.0 % 8.2 % 7.0 % Skilled mix 22.1 % 23.2 % 22.7 % Private and other 16.0 % 16.1 % 16.4 % 35 Table of Contents Medicaid 61.9 % 60.7 % 60.9 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Revenue from (total company): Medicare 33.6 % 37.4 % 37.0 % Managed care, private pay, and other 35.8 33.4 31.2 Quality mix 69.4 70.8 68.2 Medicaid 30.6 29.2 31.8 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % As of December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Facilities: Skilled nursing facilities: Owned 52 52 57 Leased 22 22 21 Total skilled nursing facilities 74 74 78 Total licensed beds 9,181 9,183 9,566 Skilled nursing facilities leased to unaffiliated third party operator 5 5 Assisted living facilities: Owned 21 21 20 Leased 1 2 2 Total assisted living facilities 22 23 22 Total licensed beds 1,228 1,312 1,264 Total facilities 101 102 100 Available beds in service (SNF only) 8,809 8,809 9,156 Percentage of owned facilities 77.2 % 76.5 % 77.0 % ________________ (1) EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, as defined above, are supplemental measures of our performance that are not required by, or presented in accordance with, U.S. GAAP. See the reconciliation of net (loss) income to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, and a discussion of their uses and limitations, in Item 6 of this report, " Selected Financial Data ." (2) EBITDAR and Adjusted EBITDAR, as defined above, are supplemental measures of our performance that are not required by, or presented in accordance with, U.S. GAAP. See the reconciliation of net (loss) income to EBITDAR and Adjusted EBITDAR, and a discussion of their uses and limitations, in Item 6 of this report, " Selected Financial Data ." Revenue Revenue by Service Offering We operate our businesses in three reportable operating segments: (i) long-term care services, which includes the operation of skilled nursing and assisted living facilities and is the most significant portion of our business; (ii) our rehabilitation therapy services business; and (iii) our hospice and home health businesses. Our reporting segments are business units that offer different services, and that are managed separately from one another due to the nature of services provided. In our long-term care services segment, we derive the majority of our revenue by providing skilled nursing care and integrated rehabilitation therapy services to residents in our affiliated skilled nursing facilities. The remainder of our long-term care segment revenue is generated by our assisted living facilities, by our administration of an unaffiliated third party skilled nursing facility, and from our leasing of five skilled nursing facilities to an unaffiliated third party operator. In our therapy services segment, we derive revenue by providing rehabilitation therapy services to third-party facilities. In our hospice and home health services segment, we provide hospice and home health services. 36 Table of Contents The following table shows the revenue and percentage of our total revenue generated by each of these segments for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Percentage Change 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010 Long-term care services: Skilled nursing facilities $ 629,630 72.2 % $ 661,370 76.2 % $ 666,415 81.4 % (4.8 )% (0.8 )% Assisted living facilities 28,042 3.2 27,593 3.2 25,585 3.1 1.6 7.8 Administration of third party facilities 791 0.1 1,144 0.1 1,125 0.1 (30.9 ) 1.7 Leased facility revenue 3,060 0.4 2,239 0.2 36.7 Total long-term care services 661,523 75.8 692,346 79.7 693,125 84.6 (4.5 ) (0.1 ) Therapy services: Third-party rehabilitation therapy services 104,403 12.0 92,765 10.7 74,118 9.1 12.5 25.2 Total therapy services 104,403 12.0 92,765 10.7 74,118 9.1 12.5 25.2 Hospice & home health services: Hospice 80,306 9.2 65,509 7.5 41,221 5.0 22.6 58.9 Home health 26,391 3.0 17,813 2.1 10,498 1.3 48.2 69.7 Total hospice & home health services 106,697 12.2 83,322 9.6 51,719 6.3 28.1 61.1 Total $ 872,623 100.0 % $ 868,433 100.0 % $ 818,962 100.0 % 0.5 % 6.0 % Sources of Revenue The following table sets forth revenue consolidated by state in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Revenue Dollars Percentage of Revenue Revenue Dollars Percentage of Revenue Revenue Dollars Percentage of Revenue California $ 349,397 40.1 % $ 354,198 40.8 % $ 343,944 42.0 % Texas 179,940 20.6 186,119 21.4 189,591 23.2 New Mexico 99,439 11.4 92,569 10.7 85,968 10.5 Nevada 62,916 7.2 59,609 6.9 48,516 5.9 Kansas 61,662 7.1 67,132 7.7 61,498 7.5 Missouri 59,743 6.8 60,738 7.0 57,539 7.0 Montana 15,665 1.8 13,060 1.5 8,004 1.0 Arizona 14,618 1.7 12,086 1.4 7,928 1.0 Iowa 10,598 1.2 11,030 1.3 9,989 1.2 Idaho 10,300 1.2 9,420 1.1 5,937 0.7 Nebraska 4,721 0.5 2,470 0.3 Other 3,624 0.4 2 48 Total $ 872,623 100.0 % $ 868,433 100.0 % $ 818,962 100.0 % Long-Term Care Services Segment 37 Table of Contents Skilled Nursing Facilities. Within our skilled nursing facilities, we generate our revenue from Medicare, Medicaid, managed care providers, insurers, private pay and other sources. We believe that our skilled mix, which we define as the number of Medicare and non-Medicaid managed care patient days at our skilled nursing facilities divided by the total number of patient days at our skilled nursing facilities for any given period, is an important indicator of our success in attracting high-acuity patients because it represents the percentage of our patients who are reimbursed by Medicare and managed care payors, for whom we receive higher reimbursement rates. Most of our skilled nursing facilities include our Express Recovery TM program. This program uses a dedicated unit within a skilled nursing facility to deliver a comprehensive rehabilitation and recovery regimen in accommodations specifically designed to serve high-acuity patients. Skilled mix decreased to 22.1% in 2012 from 23.2% in 2011 . We continued to experience a decrease in Medicare patient days partially offset by an increase in our managed care patient days in 2012 as more seniors elected managed Medicare. Our managed care patient per day (PPD) rates are lower than our Medicare PPD rates and our managed care patients historically have had a shorter length of stay than our Medicare patients. Assisted Living Facilities . Within our assisted living facilities, which are mostly in Kansas, we generate our revenue primarily from private pay sources, with a small portion earned from Medicaid or other state-specific programs. Leased Facility Revenue . We lease five skilled nursing facilities in California to an unaffiliated third party operator. For additional information on the lease arrangement, see Note 9 - "Property and Equipment." Therapy Services Segment As of December 31, 2012 , we provided rehabilitation therapy services to a total of 195 healthcare facilities, including 64 of our facilities, as compared to 185 facilities, including 64 of our facilities, as of December 31, 2011 . In addition, we have contracts to manage the rehabilitation therapy services for our 10 healthcare facilities in New Mexico. The net increase of 10 facilities serviced was comprised of 31 new facilities serviced, net of 21 cancellations. Rehabilitation therapy revenue derived from servicing our own facilities is included in our revenue from skilled nursing facilities. Our rehabilitation therapy business receives payment for services from the third-party skilled nursing facilities that it serves based on negotiated patient per diem rates or a negotiated fee schedule based on the type of service rendered. As of December 31, 2012, we provided rehabilitation therapy services to facilities in California, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa, and Indiana. Hospice and Home Health Services Segment Hospice. As of December 31, 2012 , we provided hospice care in Arizona, California, Idaho, Montana, Nevada and New Mexico. We derive substantially all of the revenue from our hospice business from Medicare and managed care reimbursement. For a Medicare beneficiary to qualify for the Medicare hospice benefit, two physicians must certify that, in their best judgment, the beneficiary has less than six months to live, assuming the beneficiarys disease runs its normal course. In addition, the Medicare beneficiary must affirmatively elect hospice care and waive any rights to other Medicare benefits related to his or her terminal illness. Each benefit period, a physician must re-certify that the Medicare beneficiarys life expectancy is six months or less in order for the beneficiary to continue to qualify for and to receive the Medicare hospice benefit. The first two benefit periods are measured at 90-day intervals and subsequent benefit periods are measured at 60-day intervals. There is no limit on the number of periods that a Medicare beneficiary may be re-certified. A Medicare beneficiary may revoke his or her election at any time and begin receiving traditional Medicare benefits. Medicare reimburses for hospice care. We receive one of four predetermined daily or hourly rates based on the level of care we furnish to the beneficiary. These rates are subject to annual adjustments based on inflation and geographic wage considerations. We are subject to two limitations on Medicare payments for hospice services. First, if inpatient days of care provided to patients at a hospice exceed 20% of the total days of hospice care provided for an annual period beginning on November 1st, then payment for days in excess of this limit are paid for at the routine home care rate. None of our hospice programs exceeded the payment limits on inpatient services for 2010 or 2009. Second, overall payments made by Medicare to us on a per hospice program basis are also subject to a cap amount calculated by the Medicare fiscal intermediary at the end of the hospice cap period. The Medicare revenue paid to a hospice program from November 1 to October 31 may not exceed the annual aggregate cap amount. Prior to the 2011 fiscal cap year, which began on November 1, 2010, this annual aggregate cap amount is calculated by multiplying the number of first time Medicare hospice beneficiaries during the year by the Medicare per beneficiary cap amount, resulting in that hospices aggregate cap, which is the allowable amount of total Medicare payments that hospice can receive for that cap year. This method is known as the streamlined method. Beginning with the 2011 fiscal cap year, unless an agency elected to stay with the streamlined method, the hospice cap amount is calculated under the proportional method, which spreads the hospice patient's cap allowance over the period for which the patient is under hospice care. For a hospice agency to estimate its cap exposure under the proportional method, the agency must estimate how long patients will stay on service. If a hospice exceeds its 38 Table of Contents aggregate cap, then the hospice must repay the excess back to Medicare. The Medicare cap amount is reduced proportionately for patients who transferred in and out of our hospice services. The Medicare cap amount is adjusted annually for inflation, but is not adjusted for geographic differences in wage levels, although hospice per diem payment rates are wage indexed. In 2012 and 2011 we booked a cap reserve of $4.1 million and $2.1 million respectively. In 2010 our hospice agencies did not exceed the Medicare cap limit. See Item 1A of this report, Risk FactorsWe are subject to a Medicare cap amount for our hospice business. Our net patient service revenue and profitability could be adversely affected by limitations on Medicare payments. Home Health . We provided home health care in Arizona, California, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, and New Mexico as of December 31, 2012 . We derive the majority of the revenue from our home health business from Medicare. The payment is adjusted for the health condition and care needs of the beneficiary. The payment is also adjusted for the geographic differences in wages for home health agencies across the country. The adjustment for the health condition, or clinical characteristics, and service needs of the beneficiary is referred to as the case-mix adjustment. The home health PPS will provide home health agencies with payments for each 60-day episode of care for each beneficiary. If a beneficiary is still eligible for care after the end of the first episode, a second episode can begin. There are no limits to the number of episodes a beneficiary who remains eligible for the home health benefit can receive. While payment for each episode is adjusted to reflect the beneficiarys health condition and needs, a special outlier provision exists to ensure appropriate payment for those beneficiaries that have the most expensive care needs. Regulatory and other Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from government Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, our rehabilitation therapy services, for which we receive payment from private payors, is significantly dependent on Medicare and Medicaid funding, as those private payors are primarily funded or reimbursed by these programs. The following table summarizes the amount of revenue that we received from each of our payor classes by segment in the periods presented (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Long-term Care Services Therapy Services Hospice & Home Health Services Total Revenue Revenue % Long-term Care Services Therapy Services Hospice & Home Health Services Total Revenue Revenue % Long-term Care Services Therapy Services Hospice & Home Health Services Total Revenue Revenue % Medicare $ 200,100 $ $ 93,007 $ 293,107 33.6 % $ 248,967 $ $ 75,975 $ 324,942 37.4 % $ 254,906 $ $ 48,231 $ 303,137 37.0 % Medicaid 264,276 2,448 266,724 30.6 252,518 1,209 253,727 29.2 259,334 749 260,083 31.8 Subtotal Medicare and Medicaid 464,376 95,455 559,831 64.2 501,485 77,184 578,669 66.6 514,240 48,980 563,220 68.8 Managed Care 94,261 4,874 99,135 11.4 86,727 1,938 88,665 10.2 75,206 451 75,657 9.2 Private pay and other 102,887 104,403 6,367 213,657 24.4 104,134 92,765 4,200 201,099 23.2 103,679 74,118 2,288 180,085 22.0 Total $ 661,524 $ 104,403 $ 106,696 $ 872,623 100.0 % $ 692,346 $ 92,765 $ 83,322 $ 868,433 100.0 % $ 693,125 $ 74,118 $ 51,719 $ 818,962 100.0 % Medicare . Medicare is a federal program that provides certain healthcare benefits to beneficiaries who are 65 years of age or older, blind, disabled or qualify for Medicares End Stage Renal Disease program. Medicare provides health insurance benefits in two primary parts for services that we provide: Part A. Medicare Part A is hospital insurance, which provides reimbursement for inpatient services for hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, hospices, home health and certain other healthcare providers and patients requiring daily professional skilled nursing and other rehabilitative care. Coverage in a skilled nursing facility is limited for a period of up to 100 days, if medically necessary, after the individual has qualified for Medicare coverage as a result of a three-day or longer hospital stay. Medicare pays for the first 20 days of stay in a skilled nursing facility in full and the next 80 days, to the extent above a daily coinsurance amount. Covered services include supervised nursing care, room and board, social services, pharmaceuticals and supplies as well as physical, speech and occupational therapies and other necessary services provided by nursing facilities. Medicare Part A also covers hospice care and some home health care. Skilled nursing facilities are paid under Medicare Part A on the basis of a prospective payment system, or PPS. The PPS payment rates are adjusted for case mix and geographic variation in wages and cover all costs of furnishing covered skilled nursing facilities services (routine, ancillary, and capital-related costs). The amount to be 39 Table of Contents paid is determined by classifying each patient into a resource utilization group ("RUG"), category, which is based upon the patient's acuity level. CMS generally evaluates and adjusts payment rates on an annual basis. Part B. Medicare Part B is supplemental medical insurance, which requires the beneficiary to pay monthly premiums, covers physician services, limited drug coverage and other outpatient services, such as physical, occupational and speech therapy services, enteral nutrition, certain medical items and X-ray services received outside of a Part A covered inpatient stay. Medicaid . Medicaid is a state-administered medical assistance program for the indigent, operated by the individual states with the financial participation of the federal government. Each state has relatively broad discretion in establishing its Medicaid reimbursement formulas and coverage of service, which must be approved by the federal government in accordance with federal guidelines. All states in which we operate cover long-term care services for individuals who are Medicaid eligible and qualify for institutional care. Providers must accept the Medicaid reimbursement level as payment in full for services rendered. Medicaid programs generally make payments directly to providers, except in cases where the state has implemented a Medicaid managed care program, under which providers receive Medicaid payments from managed care organizations ("MCOs") that have subcontracted with the Medicaid program. PPACA provides for increased financial participation by the federal government in a state's Medicaid program if the state chooses to expand its Medicaid program as contemplated by PPACA. However, states are not required to expand their Medicaid programs and it is uncertain as to which states, including states in which we operate, will ultimately expand their programs. Managed Care . Our managed care patients consist of individuals who are insured by a third-party entity, typically called a senior Health Maintenance Organization, ("HMO") plan, or are Medicare beneficiaries who assign their Medicare benefits to a senior HMO plan. Private Pay and Other . Private pay and other sources consist primarily of individuals or parties who directly pay for their services or are beneficiaries of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Primary Expense Components Cost of Services Cost of services in our long-term care services segment primarily includes salaries and benefits, supplies, purchased services, ancillary expenses such as the cost of pharmacy and therapy services provided to patients and residents, and operating expenses of our skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, including professional and general liability insurance. Cost of services in our therapy services and hospice and home health services segments primarily includes salaries and benefits, supplies, purchased services, expenses for general and professional liability insurances and other operating expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses are primarily salaries, bonuses and benefits and purchased services to operate our administrative service company. Also included in general and administrative expenses are expenses related to non-cash stock-based compensation and professional fees, including accounting, financial audit and legal fees. Performance Based Incentive Compensation Our performance based incentive compensation plan for each of our operating segments provides for cash bonus payments that are intended to reflect the achievement of key operating measures, including quality outcomes, customer satisfaction, cash collections, efficient resource utilization and operating budget goals. We accrue bonus expense based on the ratable achievement of these operating measures. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization relates to the ratable write-off of assets such as our owned buildings and equipment over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation and amortization is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Buildings and improvements 15-40 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of the lease term or estimated useful life, generally 5-10 years Furniture and equipment 3-10 years Rent Cost of Revenue Rent consists of the straight-line recognition of lease amounts payable to third-party owners of skilled nursing facilities and assisted living facilities that we operate but do not own. 40 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we reevaluate our judgments and estimates, including those related to doubtful accounts, income taxes and loss contingencies. We base our estimates and judgments on our historical experience, knowledge of current conditions and our belief of what could occur in the future considering available information, including assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. By their nature, these estimates and judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies. The following represents a summary of our critical accounting policies, defined as those policies and estimates that we believe: (a) are the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and (b) require managements most subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Revenue recognition Our net patient service revenue is derived primarily from our skilled nursing facilities, which includes our integrated rehabilitation therapy services at these facilities, with the remainder generated by our post-acute related healthcare services. These other healthcare services consist of our rehabilitation therapy services provided to third-party facilities, as well as services provided by our assisted living facilities and by our hospice care and home health businesses. We record our net patient service revenue on an accrual basis as services are performed at their estimated net realizable value under these programs. Our revenue from governmental and managed care programs is subject to ongoing audit and retroactive adjustment by governmental and third-party agencies. Retroactive adjustments that are likely to result from ongoing and future audits by third-party payors are accrued on an estimated basis in the period the related services are performed. Consistent with accounting practices in the healthcare industry, we record any changes to these governmental revenue estimates in the period in which the change or adjustment becomes known based on final settlements. Because of the complexity of the laws and regulations governing Medicare and state Medicaid assistance programs, our revenue estimates may potentially change by a material amount. Overall payments made by Medicare for hospice services are subject to an annual cap amount on a per hospice agency basis. Total Medicare payments received for services rendered during the applicable Medicare hospice cap year by each Medicare-certified agency during this period are compared to the cap amount for the relevant period. Payments in excess of the cap are subject to recoupment by Medicare. Allowance for doubtful accounts We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts related to estimated losses resulting from nonpayment of patient accounts receivable and third-party billings and notes receivable from customers. In evaluating the collectability of accounts receivable, we consider a number of factors, including the age of the accounts, changes in collection trends, the composition of patient accounts by payor, the status of ongoing disputes with third-party payors, underlying guarantees, and general industry conditions. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Our receivables from Medicare and Medicaid payor programs represent our only significant concentration of credit risk. We do not believe there to be significant credit risks associated with these governmental programs. If, at December 31, 2012 , we were to recognize an increase of 10% in our allowance for doubtful accounts, our total current assets would decrease by $1.6 million , or 1.1% . There would also be a corresponding increase in operating expense. Patient liability risks Our professional liability and general liability reserve includes amounts for patient care related claims and incurred but not reported claims. Professional liability and general liability costs for healthcare services in many states continue to be expensive and difficult to estimate, although many states have implemented tort reform that has stabilized the costs. The amount of our reserves is determined based on an estimation process that uses information obtained from both company-specific and industry data. The estimation process requires us to continuously monitor and evaluate the life cycle of the claims. Using data obtained from this monitoring and our assumptions about emerging trends, we, along with an independent actuary, develop information about the size of ultimate claims based on our historical experience and other available industry information. The most significant assumptions used in the estimation process include determining the trend in costs, the expected number and cost of claims incurred but not reported and the expected costs to settle unpaid claims. Although we believe that our reserves are adequate, it is possible that this liability will require a material adjustment in the future. For example, an adverse professional liability judgment partially contributed to our predecessor's bankruptcy filing under Chapter 41 Table of Contents 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in October 2001. If, at December 31, 2012 , we were to recognize an increase of 10% in the reserve for professional liability and general liability, our total liabilities would be increased by $2.1 million , or 0.4% . There would also be a corresponding increase in operating expense. We record our professional and general liability reserves on an undiscounted basis. Impairment of long-lived assets We periodically evaluate the carrying value of our long-lived assets other than goodwill, primarily consisting of our investments in real estate, for impairment indicators. If indicators of impairment are present, we evaluate the carrying value of the related real estate investments in relation to the future discounted cash flows of the underlying operations to assess recoverability of the assets. Measurement of the amount of the impairment, if any, may be based on independent appraisals, established market values of comparable assets or estimates of future cash flows expected. The estimates of these future cash flows are based on assumptions and projections believed by management to be reasonable and supportable. They require managements subjective judgments and take into account assumptions about revenue and expense growth rates. These assumptions may vary by type of long-lived asset. For property and equipment, major renovations or improvements are capitalized. Ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets Goodwill is accounted for under the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 805, Business Combinations , and represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business combinations accounted for as purchases. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, " Intangibles - Goodwill and Other ," goodwill is subject to periodic testing for impairment. Goodwill of a reporting unit is tested for impairment on an annual basis, or, if an event occurs or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, between annual testing. We have selected October 1 as the date to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. Goodwill Impairment Testing We compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount on an annual basis to determine whether there is potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent the fair value of goodwill is less than its carrying value. We have four reporting units: long-term care, therapy, hospice and home health. As of December 31, 2012, there was no goodwill related to the long-term care reporting unit, $9.7 million related to the rehabilitation therapy reporting unit, $53.7 million related to the hospice reporting unit and $22.2 million related to the home health reporting unit. As of October 1, 2012, we compared the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. We concluded that the fair values of the therapy, hospice and the home health reporting units exceeded their carrying values. We have no goodwill at our long-term care reporting unit. We assessed the fair value of the hospice, home health and therapy services reporting units for goodwill impairment based upon a combination of the discounted cash flow (income approach) and two different market approaches, the guideline public company method and the guideline merged and acquired company method. For the therapy and hospice reporting units the income approach and the guideline public company and guideline merged and acquired company methods of the market approach were weighted 45%, 45% and 10%, respectively. For the home health reporting unit the income approach and the guideline merged and acquired company methods of the market approach were weighted 50% and 50%, respectively. The discounted cash flow and market approach methodologies utilized in estimating the fair value of our reporting units for purposes of goodwill impairment testing requires various judgmental assumptions about revenues, EBITDA and operating margins, growth rates, and working capital requirements. In determining those judgmental assumptions, we make a number of judgments regarding a variety of data, including for each reporting unit, the annual budget for the upcoming year, the longerterm business plan, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, market data, and historical cash flow growth rates. Therapy Unit Testing Below are the key assumptions used to estimate the fair value for our therapy reporting unit at the time of our October 1, 2012 goodwill impairment test using the income approach: 2.0% longterm growth rate; and 10.5% discount rate Our therapy services reporting unit experienced an average annual compounded growth rate in external revenue from 2007 to 2011 of 4.1%. We selected a long term growth rate of 2.0% for the discounted cash flow analysis conducted as part of 42 Table of Contents the impairment analysis as the 2.0% long-term growth rate is our expected longterm growth rate from a combination of growth in external contracts, rate increases as well as occupancy and skilled mix increases at our third party customers, as well as the reimbursement changes discussed in Part I - Item 1 - Business - Industry Trends earlier in the document. This growth rate was also assumed to be 2.0% in the prior year analysis. The operating expenses projected under the discounted cash flow method were based upon our historical expenses as a percentage of therapy revenue adjusted for known efficiencies or additional costs to be incurred. Capital expenditures in the therapy services reporting unit have historically been negligible. The discount rate used to present value cash flows under the discounted cash flow method is a significant assumption in the analysis. The discount rate was developed using the capital asset pricing model through which a weighted average cost of capital was derived. The cost of equity was assumed to be 12.7% and the pre-tax cost of debt was assumed to be 8.0%, or about 4.8% after tax. Assuming a capital structure of 25% debt and 75% equity, the average cost of capital was determined to be 10.5%, which was used as the discount rate. A 0.5% decrease in the discount rate would increase the equity value of the therapy reporting unit by approximately $3 million, or 7%, using the income approach. A 0.5% increase in the discount rate would decrease the equity value of the therapy reporting unit by approximately $3 million, or 6%, using the income approach Increasing the long-term revenue growth rate by 0.5% would increase the equity value by approximately $2 million, or 5%, using the income approach. Decreasing the long-term revenue growth rate by 0.5% would decrease the equity value by approximately $2 million, or 4%, using the income approach. For the market approach, we compared ourselves to a peer group of other public companies. The metric used was total invested capital, or TIC, divided by earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA. The average TIC divided by projected 2013 EBITDA for the peer group, including us, was 5.1. For our market valuation a multiple of 6.0 was selected along with a control premium of 30%, based upon historical transactions. As the result of this evaluation indicated that the reporting unit's fair value of equity exceeded the carrying value of equity by $3.8 million it was determined that there was no impairment to the therapy services reporting unit. Hospice Unit Testing Below are the key assumptions used to estimate the fair value for our hospice reporting unit at the time of our October 1, 2012 goodwill impairment test using the income approach: 2.0% longterm growth rate; and 12.0% discount rate We selected a long term growth rate of 2.0% for the discounted cash flow analysis conducted as part of the impairment analysis as the 2.0% long-term growth rate is our expected longterm growth rate from a combination of growth in rate increases as well as census increases. This growth rate was also assumed to be 2.0% in the prior year analysis. The operating expenses projected under the discounted cash flow method were based upon our historical expenses as a percentage of hospice revenue adjusted for known efficiencies or additional costs to be incurred. Capital expenditures in the hospice services reporting unit have historically been negligible. The discount rate used to present value cash flows under the discounted cash flow method is a significant assumption in the analysis. The discount rate was developed using the capital asset pricing model through which a weighted average cost of capital was derived. The cost of equity was assumed to be 14.3% and the pre-tax cost of debt was assumed to be 8.0%, or about 4.8% after tax. Assuming a capital structure of 25% debt and 75% equity, the average cost of capital was determined to be 12.0%, which was used as the discount rate. A 0.5% decrease in the discount rate would increase the equity value of the hospice reporting unit by approximately $4 million, or 10%, using the income approach.A 0.5% increase in the discount rate would decrease the equity value of the hospice reporting unit by approximately $4 million, or 10%, using the income approach. Increasing the long-term revenue growth rate by 0.5% would increase the equity value by approximately $3 million, or 7%, using the income approach. Decreasing the long-term revenue growth rate by 0.5% would decrease the equity value by approximately $3 million, or 7%, using the income approach. For the market approach, we compared ourselves to a peer group of other public companies. The metric used was total invested capital, or TIC, divided by earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA. The average TIC divided by projected 2013 EBITDAR for the peer group, including us, was 6.1. For our market valuation a multiple of 5.5 was selected along with a control premium of 30%, based upon historical transactions. As the result of this evaluation indicated that the reporting unit's fair value of equity exceeded the carrying value of equity it was determined that there was no impairment to the hospice reporting unit. Home Health Unit Testing Below are the key assumptions used to estimate the fair value for our home health reporting unit at the time of our October 1, 2012 goodwill impairment test using the income approach: 43 Table of Contents 3.0% longterm growth rate; and 11.0% discount rate We selected a long term growth rate of 3.0% for the discounted cash flow analysis conducted as part of the impairment analysis as the 3.0% long-term growth rate is our expected longterm growth rate from a combination of growth in rate increases as well as census increases. The operating expenses projected under the discounted cash flow method were based upon our historical expenses as a percentage of home health revenue adjusted for known efficiencies or additional costs to be incurred. Capital expenditures in the home health services reporting unit have historically been negligible. The discount rate used to present value cash flows under the discounted cash flow method is a significant assumption in the analysis. The discount rate was developed using the capital asset pricing model through which a weighted average cost of capital was derived. The cost of equity was assumed to be 12.5% and the pre-tax cost of debt was assumed to be 8.0%, or about 4.8% after tax. Assuming a capital structure of 25% debt and 75% equity, the average cost of capital was determined to be 11.0%, which was used as the discount rate. A 0.5% decrease in the discount rate would increase the equity value of the home health reporting unit by approximately $1.4 million, or 48%, using the income approach. A 0.5% increase in the discount rate would decrease the equity value of the home health reporting unit by approximately $1.1 million, or 38%, using the income approach. Increasing the long-term revenue growth rate by 0.5% would increase the equity value by approximately $1.1 million, or 38%, using the income approach. Decreasing the long-term revenue growth rate by 0.5% would decrease the equity value by approximately $0.9 million, or 31%, using the income approach. For the market approach, we compared ourselves to a peer group of other public companies. The metric used was total invested capital, or TIC, divided by revenue. The average TIC divided by projected revenue for the peer group, including us, was 1.01. For our market valuation a multiple of 1.0 was selected. As the result of this evaluation indicated that the reporting unit's fair value of equity exceeded the carrying value of equity it was determined that there was no impairment to the home health reporting unit. Our goodwill impairment analysis is subject to uncertainties due to uncontrollable events, including any strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions, the general economic environment, and material changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement that could positively or negatively impact anticipated future operating conditions and cash flows. In addition, our goodwill impairment analysis is subject to current economic uncertainties. As of December 31, 2012, goodwill in the amount of $85.6 million was recorded in our consolidated balance sheet, of which $9.7 million related to the rehabilitation therapy unit, $53.7 million related to the hospice reporting unit and $22.2 million related to the home health reporting unit. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under FASB ASC Topic 740, " Income Taxes." FASB ASC Topic 740 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement criteria for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FASB ASC Topic 740 also provides guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition rules. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011 , our accrual for unrecognized tax benefits including applicable interest and penalties was negligible. As prescribed by FASB ASC Topic 740, only the amounts reasonably expected to be paid within 12 months are recorded in taxes payable, while remaining amounts after 12 months are recorded in other non-current taxes payable. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. While we believe that our tax return positions are supportable, there are certain positions that may not be sustained upon review by tax authorities. Although we believe that adequate accruals have been made for such positions, the final resolution of those matters may differ from the amounts provided for in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the provision for income taxes line item of the consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011 , our accrued interest and penalties on unrecognized tax benefits was negligible. We are subject to taxation in the United States and in various state jurisdictions. Our tax years 2007 and forward are subject to examination by the United States Internal Revenue Service and by our material state jurisdictions. The Internal Revenue Service completed a limited scope examination of our 2007 through 2009 tax years and the results of the examination were negligible. We use the liability method of accounting for income taxes as set forth in FASB ASC Topic 740. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date based upon the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. 44 Table of Contents Our temporary differences are primarily attributable to purchase adjustments related to intangible assets, depreciation, allowances for doubtful accounts, settlement costs, and accruals for professional and general liability expenses and workers' compensation, which are not deductible for tax purposes until paid. We assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and available carryback potential and unless we believe that recovery is more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amounts expected to be realized. We make our judgments regarding deferred tax assets and the associated valuation allowance, based on among other things, expected future reversals of taxable temporary differences, available carryback potential, tax planning strategies and forecasts of future income. We periodically review for the requirement of a valuation allowance as necessary. As of December 31, 2012 , we were in a three-year cumulative pre-tax loss position, which is considered significant negative evidence under FASB ASC Topic 740 and presumes a need for a valuation allowance. The cumulative pretax loss was attributable the 2011 goodwill impairment charge which was primarily non-deductible for income tax purposes and did not affect taxable income. We have a history of generating taxable earnings and will report significant taxable income in 2012 . Further, as our deferred tax assets are expected to reverse in subsequent years, any deferred tax asset could be utilized to carry back against prior year income. This significant positive evidence overcomes the presumption of a need for a valuation allowance. At December 31, 2012 , we retained a valuation allowance for our state loss and credit carryforwards of $0.7 million as a result of certain restrictions regarding their utilization. Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 410, " Asset Retirement and Environmental Obligations ," we recorded a liability of $5.0 million effective December 31, 2005, substantially all of which related to estimated costs to remove asbestos that is contained within our facilities. Of this $5.0 million liability, $1.6 million was recorded as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2005. We have determined that a conditional asset retirement obligation exists for asbestos remediation. Though not a current health hazard in our facilities, upon renovation, we may be required to take the appropriate remediation procedures in compliance with state law to remove the asbestos. The removal of asbestos-containing materials includes primarily floor and ceiling tiles from our pre-1980 constructed facilities. We determined the fair value of the conditional asset retirement obligation as the present value of the estimated future cost of remediation based on an estimated expected date of remediation. This computation is based on a number of assumptions which may change in the future based on the availability of new information, technology changes, changes in costs of remediation, and other factors. The determination of the asset retirement obligation is based upon a number of assumptions that incorporate our knowledge of the facilities, the asset life of the floor and ceiling tiles, the estimated time frames for periodic renovations which would involve floor and ceiling tiles, the current cost for remediation of asbestos and the current technology at hand to accomplish the remediation work. These assumptions to determine the asset retirement obligation may be imprecise or be subject to changes in the future. Any change in the assumptions can impact the value of the determined liability and impact our future earnings. If we were to experience a 10% increase in our estimated future cost of remediation, our recorded liability of $4.2 million would increase by $0.4 million and operating expenses would also increase. Operating Leases The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 3, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies ," to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Recent Accounting Standards The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 3, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies ," to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Results of Operations The following table sets forth details of our revenue, expenses and earnings (loss) as a percentage of total revenue for the periods indicated: 45 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Expenses: Cost of services (exclusive of rent cost of revenue and depreciation and amortization shown below) 83.8 80.3 80.3 Rent cost of revenue 2.1 2.1 2.3 General and administrative 2.8 3.0 3.1 Litigation settlement costs, (net of recoveries) (0.5 ) 6.5 Depreciation and amortization 2.9 2.9 3.1 Goodwill impairment charge 31.1 91.6 118.9 95.3 Other (expenses) income: Interest expense (4.3 ) (4.5 ) (4.5 ) Interest income 0.1 0.1 0.1 Equity in earnings of joint venture 0.2 0.2 0.3 Other (expense) income (0.1 ) 0.3 Debt retirement costs (0.5 ) (0.9 ) Total other (expenses) income, net (4.5 ) (4.3 ) (4.7 ) Income (loss) before provision for income taxes 3.9 (23.2 ) Provision for income taxes 1.4 0.3 0.2 Net income (loss) 2.5 (23.5 ) (0.2 ) EBITDA(1) 11.1 % (15.8 )% 7.5 % Adjusted EBITDA(1) 11.6 % 15.0 % 14.7 % EBITDAR(2) 13.2 % (13.7 )% 9.8 % Adjusted EBITDAR(2) 13.7 % 17.1 % 17.0 % ________________ (1) See footnote 1 to Item 6 of this report, "Selected Financial Data" for a calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA and for a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, as well as an accompanying reconciliation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss). (2) See footnote 2 to Item 6 of this report, "Selected Financial Data" for a calculation of EBITDAR and Adjusted EBITDAR and for a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with, EBITDAR and Adjusted EBITDAR, as well as an accompanying reconciliation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss). Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2011 Revenue. Revenue increased $4.2 million , or 0.5% , to $872.6 million in 2012 from $868.4 million in 2011 . Long Term Care Service Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 Increase/(Decrease) Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Dollars Percentage (dollars in millions) Skilled nursing facilities $ 629.6 72.2 % $ 661.4 76.2 % $ (31.8 ) (4.8 )% Assisted living facilities 28.0 3.2 27.6 3.2 0.4 1.4 Administration of third party facilities 0.8 0.1 1.1 0.1 (0.3 ) (27.3 ) Leased facility revenue 3.1 0.4 % $ 2.2 0.2 $ 0.9 40.9 % Total long-term care services $ 661.5 75.8 % $ 692.3 79.7 % $ (30.8 ) (4.4 )% 46 Table of Contents Skilled nursing facilities revenue decreased by $31.8 million in 2012 as compared to 2011 . Revenue decreased by $23.4 million for skilled nursing facilities operated for all of 2011 and 2012 as a result of a decrease in the weighted average per patient day ("PPD") rate of $9.26 causing a $24.6 million decrease, offset by a $1.2 million increase due to an increase in patient days in 2012. The decrease in PPD rates was the result of the Medicare rate cut discussed below, a decrease in our skilled mix, and a shift from Medicare days to Managed Medicare days as more seniors elect Medicare Advantage. Additionally, there was an increase of $0.9 million in revenue from our commencement of operations at the Rehabilitation Center of Omaha in April 2011 offset by a $8.6 million decrease in revenue from the transfer of operation of five skilled nursing facilities in northern California to an unaffiliated third party operator in April 2011. Our average daily Part A Medicare rate decreased 8.2% to $512 in the year ended December 31, 2012 from $558 in the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily due to the decrease of our skilled nursing Medicare rates by 11.1% , effective October 1, 2011 partially offset by a 1.7% Medicare rate increase effective October 1, 2012. Our average daily Medicaid rate increased 3.9% to $160 per day in the year ended December 31, 2012 from $154 per day in the year ended December 31, 2011. However, the increase in Medicaid rates were substantially offset by increases in the state provider taxes which are recorded in cost of services. The increase of $0.4 million at our assisted living facilities in the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 was due to the July 2011 acquisition of Vintage Park at San Martin in Las Vegas, Nevada. The increase of $0.9 million in leased facility revenue was due to the five facilities in northern California being leased for all of 2012 and for only nine months of 2011. Therapy Services Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 Increase/(Decrease) Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Dollars Percentage (dollars in millions) Rehabilitation therapy services $ 166.3 19.1 % $ 157.1 18.1 % $ 9.2 5.9 % Intersegment eliminations of services related to affiliated entities (61.9 ) (7.1 ) (64.3 ) (7.4 ) 2.3 (3.6 ) Total therapy services $ 104.4 12.0 % $ 92.8 10.7 % $ 11.6 12.5 % Third party rehabilitation therapy services revenue increased $11.6 million in 2012 compared to 2011 . Revenue increased $3.3 million for facilities serviced for all of 2012 and 2011 . Of the increase in revenue, $5.9 million was due to a net increase of 10 third-party facilities since the year ended December 31, 2011. The Medicare Part B therapy cap exception requirements that went into effect on October 1, 2012 negatively impacted our therapy business in the fourth quarter of 2012 and will continue to have a negative impact in 2013. The MPPR for outpatient therapy included in the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 goes into effect April 1, 2013 and will also have a negative impact on our therapy business. We expect this will be partially offset by Medicare Part B rate increases effective January 1, 2013. We expect a net negative impact to earnings of $1.0 million to $2.0 million in 2013. Hospice and Home Health Services Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 Increase/(Decrease) Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Dollars Percentage (dollars in millions) Hospice $ 80.3 9.2 % $ 65.5 7.5 % $ 14.8 22.6 % Home Health 26.4 3.0 17.8 2.1 8.6 48.2 Total hospice & home health services $ 106.7 12.2 % $ 83.3 9.6 % $ 23.4 28.1 % Hospice and home health services revenue increased $23.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Hospice revenue increased $10.2 million due to the acquisition of Cornerstone and $4.6 million for hospice business operated for all twelve months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. Of the $4.6 million same store hospice revenue increase, $5.6 million was due to an increase in average daily census offset by a $1.0 million decrease due to a $2.6 decrease in the weighted average PPD rate. The decrease in the weighted average PPD rate was due to $3.1 million of net hospice cap reserves recorded in 2012 at our agencies that we operated for all of 2011 and 2012. We recorded an additional $1.0 million of hospice cap reserves associated with our Arizona Cornerstone Hospice agency in 2012. 47 Table of Contents Home health business revenue increased $8.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Of the $8.6 million , $2.1 million was from the home health agencies operated for all of both periods and $3.5 million increase from an increase in episodes, offset by a $1.3 million decrease due to a decrease in average rate per episodes. The decrease in rate per episode was primarily due to a decrease in Medicare reimbursement rates and additional decreases in commercial insurance and other payor sources. The remaining $6.4 million increase in home health was due to acquisitions. Cost of Services Expenses . Our cost of services expenses increased by $33.7 million , or 4.8% , to $731.0 million , or 83.8% of revenue, in 2012 , from $697.3 million , or 80.3% of revenue, in 2011 . The increase in cost of services as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to the impact of the Medicare rate cut and decrease in our skilled mix at our long-term care reporting unit as previously discussed. Long Term Care Services Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 Increase/(Decrease) Cost of Service Dollars (prior to intersegment eliminations) Revenue Percentage Cost of Service Dollars (prior to intersegment eliminations) Revenue Percentage Dollars Percentage (dollars in millions) Skilled nursing facilities $ 512.3 81.4 % $ 516.3 78.1 % $ (4.0 ) (0.8 )% Assisted living facilities 19.7 70.4 % 19.8 71.7 % (0.1 ) (0.5 )% Operations support 21.5 n/a 23.5 n/a (2.0 ) (8.5 )% Total long-term care services $ 553.5 83.7 % $ 559.6 80.8 % $ (6.1 ) (1.1 )% Cost of services at our skilled nursing facilities decreased by $4.0 million in 2012 compared to 2011. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $7.0 million in expenses resulting from the transfer of operations of the five skilled nursing facilities in northern California to an unaffiliated third party operator in April 2011, offset by $0.8 million of additional expenses due to the acquisition of a leasehold interest by the Rehabilitation Center of Omaha in April 2011 and a $2.1 million resulting from operating costs increasing at facilities acquired or developed prior to January 1, 2011. Of the $2.1 million increase at facilities acquired or developed prior to January 1, 2011, labor costs increased $5.7 million , offset by decreases in rehabilitation and ancillary costs of $3.3 million and insurance costs of $2.1 million . Other cost increases, including provider taxes, made up the difference. Cost of services at our assisted living facilities decreased $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. The cost of services for our regional operations support decreased $2.0 million for year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to a decrease in personnel costs and a decrease in purchased services. Therapy Services Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 Increase/(Decrease) Revenue Dollars (prior to intersegment eliminations) Cost of Service Dollars (prior to intersegment eliminations) Revenue Percentage Revenue Dollars (prior to intersegment eliminations) Cost of Service Dollars (prior to intersegment eliminations) Revenue Percentage Dollars Percentage (dollars in millions) Rehabilitation therapy services $ 166.3 $ 153.5 92.3 % $ 157.1 $ 138.9 88.4 % $ 14.6 10.5 % Total therapy services $ 166.3 $ 153.5 92.3 % $ 157.1 $ 138.9 88.4 % $ 14.6 10.5 % Rehabilitation therapy costs as a percentage of revenue increased primarily due to Medicare program changes to group therapy, which has resulted in less efficient modes of treatment by licensed therapists. CMS rulemaking for its fiscal year 2012, which began October 1, 2011, effectively creates a financial disincentive for providing group therapy treatments in contrast to its policies that promoted such efficiencies in prior fiscal years. CMS also made changes effective October 1, 2011, that require 48 Table of Contents additional therapy time to provide more frequent assessments of the patients we treat. We expect these two factors will continue to negatively impact the margins of the therapy business in future periods. Though these factors have increased our operating costs we have seen improvement in our rehabilitation therapy costs as a percentage of revenue as the result of increased productivity efficiencies gained through using technology to reduce the time that therapists must spend on administrative tasks. Hospice and Home Health Services Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 Increase/(Decrease) Cost of Service Dollars Revenue Percentage Cost of Service Dollars Revenue Percentage Dollars Percentage (dollars in millions) Hospice $ 64.5 80.3 % 48.5 74.0 % $ 16.0 33.0 % Home Health 23.9 90.5 16.6 93.2 % 7.3 44.0 Total hospice & home health services $ 88.4 82.8 % $ 65.1 78.2 % $ 23.3 35.8 % Cost of services related to our hospice business increased $16.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. The change was primarily due to an increase of $7.6 million due to the acquisition of Cornerstone and $8.4 million of additional expenses at our existing hospice business. These additional operating expenses resulted from $6.0 million increase in labor costs, which represented an increase of 8.8% on a PPD basis. Expenses also increased as a percentage of revenue due to the previously discussed hospice cap reserves recorded in 2012. Cost of services for our home health business increased $7.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase was due to an increase of $2.1 million of additional expenses at our existing home health agencies and $5.3 million was due to acquisitions. Rent Cost of Revenue. Rent cost of revenue increased by $0.1 million , or 0.6% , to $18.5 million , or 2.1% of revenue, in 2012 from $18.4 million , or 2.1% of revenue, in 2011 . General and Administrative Services Expenses. Our general and administrative services expenses decreased by $1.5 million , or 5.8% , to $24.2 million , or 2.8% of revenue, in 2012 from $25.7 million , or 3.0% of revenue, in 2011 . The decrease was primarily a result of a decrease in incentive compensation expense. Also in 2011 we incurred $0.7 million related to the exploration of strategic alternatives with no similar expense in 2012. Litigation Settlement Costs, net of Recoveries . Litigation settlement expense, net of recoveries for the year ended December 31, 2011 represented primarily insurance recoveries of $4.5 million related to the $53.5 million in litigation settlement expense that we recorded during the year ended December 31, 2010. There was no comparable benefit recorded in the year ended December 31, 2012. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization increased by $0.2 million , or 0.7% , to $25.4 million in 2012 from $25.2 million in 2011 . Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. We recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $267.5 million and a $3.0 million impairment charge related to a long-lived asset for the year ended 2011 . There was no comparable charge recorded for the year ended December 31, 2012. Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased by $1.2 million , or 3.2% , to $37.8 million in 2012 from $39.0 million in 2011 . A reduction in average debt of $30.2 million led to a reduction in interest expense of $2.0 million . This was offset by an increase in the weighted average interest rate on our debt which accounted for the difference. Interest Income . Interest income decreased by $0.2 million to $0.5 million in 2012 from $0.7 million in 2011 due to a decrease in average outstanding notes receivable. Equity in Earnings of Joint Venture . Equity earnings of our joint venture decreased by 0.4% to $1.9 million , or 0.2% of revenue, in 2012 from $2.0 million , or 0.2% of revenue, in 2011 . Debt Retirement Cost . Debt retirement cost of $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 was due to the expensing of fees paid in connection with refinancing and existing deferred financing fees associated with the redemption of the 2014 Notes in May 2012 and the $100 million expansion of our term debt. 49 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes . Our provision for income taxes in 2012 was $12.4 million , or 36.5% of pre-tax income from continuing operations, as compared to $3.0 million , or 1.5% of pre-tax income from continuing operations in 2011 . The change in effective tax rate in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge recorded in 2011, most of which was not deductible for income tax purposes. EBITDA. EBITDA increased by $234.2 million to a gain of $96.7 million in 2012 from a loss of $137.5 million in 2011 . The $234.2 million increase was primarily related to the $270.5 million impairment charge in 2011. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 Revenue. Revenue increased $49.5 million , or 6.0% , to $868.4 million in 2011 from $819.0 million in 2010 . Long Term Care Service Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Increase/(Decrease) Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Dollars Percentage (dollars in millions) Skilled nursing facilities $ 661.4 76.2 % $ 666.4 81.5 % $ (5.0 ) (0.8 )% Assisted living facilities 27.6 3.2 25.6 3.1 2.0 7.8 Administration of third party facilities 1.1 0.1 1.1 0.1 Leased facility revenue 2.2 0.2 % $ $ 2.2 n/a Total long-term care services $ 692.3 79.7 % $ 693.1 84.6 % $ (0.8 ) (0.1 )% Skilled nursing facilities revenue decreased by $5.0 million in 2011 as compared to 2010. Revenue increased by $19.4 million for skilled nursing facilities operated for all of 2010 and 2011, as a result of a $23.7 million increase to a higher weighted average PPD rate, offset by a $4.3 million decrease due to a decline in occupancy rates, which occurred primarily at our Texas facilities. Additionally, there were increases of $6.6 million from the opening of the Fort Worth Center of Rehabilitation in June 2010 and $2.4 million from the acquisition of a lease by Rehabilitation Center of Omaha in April 2011, offset by a decreases of $10.6 million of revenue from the sale of Westside Campus of Care in December 2010 and $22.4 million from the transfer of operations of five skilled nursing facilities in northern California to an unaffiliated third party operator in April 2011. The reduction in revenue related to the transfer of operations of the five skilled nursing facilities was $20.2 million net of the $2.2 million of lease revenue that we received as a result of leasing the facilities to the third party operator. Skilled mix increased to 23.2% in 2011 from 22.7% in 2010. While skilled mix increased in 2011 as compared to 2010, we experienced an increase in our managed care patient days and a decrease in Medicare patient days as more seniors elected managed Medicare. Our managed care PPD rates are lower than our Medicare PPD rates and our managed care patients historically have had a shorter length of stay than our Medicare patients. Our average daily Part A Medicare rate increased 8.3% to $558 in 2011 from $515 in 2010, primarily due to the October 2010 implementation of RUGs IV. Our skilled nursing Medicare rates were decreased by 11.1% effective October 1, 2011 which has negatively impacted our skilled nursing revenues in the last quarter of 2011 and will continue to negatively impact our skilled nursing revenues in 2012 as compared to 2011. Our average daily Medicaid rate increased 2.0% to $154 in 2011 from $151 per day in 2010, primarily due to increased Medicaid rates in California, Kansas and New Mexico. These increases in Medicaid rates were substantially offset by increases in the provider taxes in those states. We expect overall Medicaid rates for the states we operate in to stay flat for the states' fiscal 2012 as compared to their fiscal 2011. While same store admission volume has increased, we have experienced a decrease in our patients' average length of stay. We believe this to be primarily attributable to acuity and the economic factors affecting our business and the additional options patients have to return home. Of the $2.0 million increase at our assisted living facilities, $1.4 million was from assisted living facilities that operated for all of 2010 and 2011. Our revenue related to the administration of third party facilities remained consistent at $1.1 million in 2011 and 2010. Therapy Services 50 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Increase/(Decrease) Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Dollars Percentage (dollars in millions) Rehabilitation therapy services $ 157.1 18.1 % $ 141.1 17.2 % $ 16.0 11.3 % Intersegment eliminations of services related to affiliated entities (64.3 ) (7.4 ) (67.0 ) (8.2 ) 2.7 (4.0 ) Total therapy services $ 92.8 10.7 % $ 74.1 9.0 % $ 18.7 25.2 % Third party rehabilitation therapy services revenue increased $18.7 million in 2011 compared to 2010. Revenue increased $4.0 million at third party facilities serviced for all of 2011 and 2010, primarily as a result of the negotiated rate increase. Revenue increased by $11.1 million from facilities for which service began since the beginning of 2010. The remainder of the difference is from facilities that used to be operated by our affiliates that have since been sold or leased to third party operators and are still serviced by Hallmark. Hospice and Home Health Services Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Increase/(Decrease) Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Revenue Dollars Revenue Percentage Dollars Percentage (dollars in millions) Hospice $ 65.5 7.5 % 41.2 5.0 % 24.3 59.0 % Home Health 17.8 2.1 10.5 1.3 7.3 69.5 Total hospice & home health services $ 83.3 9.6 % $ 51.7 6.3 % $ 31.6 61.1 % Hospice and home health services revenue increased in 2011 compared to 2010, as a result of our completion of the Hospice/Home Health Acquisition in May 2010 and from an increase in the ADC of our hospice businesses, which increased from 955 in 2010 to 1,269 in 2011. Cost of Services Expenses . Our cost of services expenses increased by $39.8 million, or 6.1%, to $697.3 million , or 80.1% of revenue, in 2011 , from $657.5 million , or 80.3% of revenue, in 2010. Long Term Care Services Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Increase/(Decrease) Cost of Service Dollars (prior to intersegment eliminations) Revenue Percentage Cost of Service Dollars (prior to intersegment eliminations) Revenue Percentage Dollars Percentage (dollars in millions) Skilled nursing facilities $ 516.3 78.1 % $ 519.3 77.9 % $ (3.0 ) (0.6 )% Assisted living facilities 19.8 71.7 % 18.0 70.3 % 1.8 10.0 % Operations support 23.5 n/a 23.6 n/a (0.1 ) (0.4 )% Total long-term care services $ 559.6 80.8 % $ 560.9 80.9 % $ (1.3 ) (0.2 )% Cost of services expenses at our skilled nursing facilities decreased by $3.0 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The change was substantially due to $4.9 million of additional expenses related to the Fort Worth Center of Rehabilitation which opened June 2010, $2.2 million of additional expenses due to the acquisition of a lease by the Rehabilitation Center of Omaha in April 2011, and $14.9 million of additional expenses from operating costs increasing at facilities acquired or developed prior to January 1, 2010. This $14.9 million increase resulted from an increase in operating costs of $6.91 PPD, or 3.8%, to $190.59 PPD in 2011 from $183.68 in 2010. The increase in cost of services expenses was offset by a decrease of $8.5 million of 51 Table of Contents expenses due to the sale of Westside Campus of Care in December 2010 and a decrease of $17.4 million due to the transfer of operations of five skilled nursing facilities in northern California to an unaffiliated third party operator in April 2011. The $14.9 million increase in operating costs resulted from a $7.1 million increase in labor costs, which represented an increase of $3.40, or 3.2%, on a PPD basis. The increase in labor costs is attributable to an increase in personnel as well as salary and hourly wage increases. Additionally, the increase in operating costs resulted from a $3.8 million increase in taxes and licenses, which was primarily due to an increase in provider taxes, $1.7 million increase in expenses related to food and supplies, $1.7 million in expenses related to purchased services and $1.4 million increase in expenses related to pharmacy. In 2012, we expect pharmacy expenses to increase approximately $1.2 million resulting in a 3.0% increase in PPD. The increase in operating costs were offset by a decrease of approximately $0.8 million in insurance, bad debt, and other operating expenses. Cost of services expenses at our assisted living facilities increased $1.8 million in 2011 compared to 2010, $1.2 million of which was at assisted living facilities that operated for all 2010 and 2011. Therapy Services Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Increase/(Decrease) Revenue Dollars (prior to intersegment eliminations) Cost of Service Dollars (prior to intersegment eliminations) Revenue Percentage Revenue Dollars (prior to intersegment eliminations) Cost of Service Dollars (prior to intersegment eliminations) Revenue Percentage Dollars Percentage (dollars in millions) Rehabilitation therapy services $ 157.1 $ 138.9 88.4 % $ 141.1 $ 121.9 86.4 % $ 17.0 13.9 % Total therapy services $ 157.1 $ 138.9 88.4 % $ 141.1 $ 121.9 86.4 % $ 17.0 13.9 % Rehabilitation therapy costs as a percentage of revenue increased primarily due to Medicare program changes related to concurrent therapy effective October 1, 2010, which has resulted in less efficient modes of treatment by licensed therapists. This, along with the loss of the ability to utilize rehabilitation aides to provide supervised treatments, created an increase in the demand for therapists which increased labor costs. As a result, labor and benefit costs per minute of service increased more than revenue per minute of service in 2011. These changes to providing concurrent therapy services created a more challenging operating environment and resulted in lower productivity in 2011 as compared to 2010. The negative impact to productivity from the concurrent therapy change was partially offset by third party customer rate increases and increasing group therapy treatments and an increase in volumes at both affiliated and non-affiliated facilities. However, CMS rulemaking effective for its fiscal year 2012 (which began October 1, 2011) effectively created a financial penalty for providing group therapy treatments in contrast to its policy which promoted such efficiencies in prior fiscal years. CMS also made changes effective October 1, 2011 which require additional therapy time to provide more frequent assessments of the patients we treat. These two factors have negatively impacted the margins of the therapy business during the fourth quarter of 2011 and will continue to have a negative impact to operating margins in future periods. Hospice and Home Health Services Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Increase/(Decrease) Cost of Service Dollars Revenue Percentage Cost of Service Dollars Revenue Percentage Dollars Percentage (dollars in millions) Hospice $ 48.5 74.0 % 33.4 81.1 % $ 15.1 45.2 % Home Health 16.6 93.2 9.1 86.7 % 7.5 82.4 Total hospice & home health services $ 65.1 78.2 % $ 42.5 82.2 % $ 22.6 53.2 % The increase in hospice and home health cost of services was primarily a result of our completion of the Hospice/Home Health Acquisition in May 2010 and the addition of hospice and home health facilities acquired in 2011. Cost of services as a 52 Table of Contents percentage of revenue improved as the acquired hospice companies have higher operating margins than our legacy hospice operations, as well as from improved census in our legacy operations, which leveraged fixed overhead costs. Rent Cost of Revenue. Rent cost of revenue decreased by $0.6 million, or 3.3%, to $18.4 million, or 2.1% of revenue, in 2011 from $19.0 million, or 2.3% of revenue, in 2010. The decrease is primarily related to the purchase of two previously leased facilities in December 2010. General and Administrative Services Expenses. Our general and administrative services expenses increased by $0.2 million, or 0.7%, to $25.7 million, or 3.0% of revenue, in 2011 from $25.5 million, or 3.1% of revenue, in 2010. The increase in our general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of an increase of $0.7 million related to the exploration of strategic alternatives and an increase of compensation costs offset by a $0.6 million reversal of stock compensation expense for performance stock awards for which the performance criteria are no longer expected to be met. Litigation Settlement Costs, net of Recoveries . Litigation settlement expense, net of recoveries for the year ended 2011 represented primarily insurance recoveries of $4.5 million related to the $53.5 million in litigation settlement expense that we recorded during the year ended 2010. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization increased by $0.2 million, or 0.7%, to $25.2 million in 2010 from $25.0 million in 2010. This increase is primarily a result of the change in fair value related to the contingent considerations due to the Hospice/Home Health Acquisition in May 2010, the Altura Homecare & Rehab acquisition in July 2011, the Willow Creek Memory Care at San Martin acquisition in July 2011, and the Cornerstone Hospice acquisition in October 2011, discussed in Note 3, "Fair Value Measurements" to our audited financial statements . Additionally, there was an increase in depreciation and amortization related to the opening of the Fort Worth Center of Rehabilitation in June 2010. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. We recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $267.5 million and a $3.0 million impairment charge related to a long-lived asset for the year ended 2011. There was no comparable charge recorded for the year ended 2010. See " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets" for a more detailed discussion of the impairment charges. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased by $2.0 million, or 5.3%, to $39.0 million in 2011 from $37.0 million in 2010. The increase in our interest expense was primarily due to a higher "all-in" interest rate as the result of the refinancing of our credit facility in April 2010. The "all-in" interest rate inclusive of deferred financing fee amortization for 2011 was 7.8% compared to 7.4% for 2010. Average debt outstanding for 2011 was $499.4 million compared to $503.2 million in 2010. Interest Income . Interest income decreased by $0.2 million to $0.7 million in 2011 from $0.9 million in 2010 due to a decrease in average outstanding notes receivable. Equity in Earnings of Joint Venture . Equity earnings of our joint venture decreased by $0.6 million, or 23.8% to $2.0 million, or 0.2% of revenue, in 2011 from $2.6 million, or 0.3% of revenue, in 2010 primarily due to the decrease in number of facilities serviced by our pharmacy joint venture. Debt Retirement Cost . Debt retirement cost related to the April 2010 refinancing of our credit facility was $7.0 million for the year ended 2010 with no comparable amount for the year ended 2011 due to the expensing of deferred financing fees of $6.6 million and $0.4 million of interest rate swap termination costs as the swap was incompatible with the refinanced senior secured credit facility. Provision for Income Taxes . Our provision for income taxes in 2011 was $3.0 million , or 1.5% of pre-tax loss from continuing operations, as compared to $2.0 million , or 1,287.1% of pre-tax income from continuing operations in 2010. The change in effective tax rate in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge recorded in 2011, most of which was not deductible for income tax purposes. Loss from Continuing Operations . Loss from continuing operations increased by $202.2 million to a loss of $204.0 million in 2011 from a loss from continuing operations of $1.8 million in 2010. The $202.2 million increase was related primarily to $270.5 million charge for impairment of long lived assets, $39.8 million increase in cost of services, and $2.0 million increase in interest expense, offset by an increase of $49.5 million in revenue, decrease in litigation settlement cost, net of recoveries, of $58.0 million , and $7.0 million decrease in debt retirement costs, all discussed above. EBITDA. EBITDA decreased by $198.8 million to a loss of $137.5 million in 2011 from $61.3 million in 2010. The $198.8 million decrease was primarily related to the $270.5 million impairment of long-lived assets offset by the $58.0 million decrease in litigation settlement cost, net of recoveries and $7.0 million decrease in debt retirement costs, all discussed above. Quarterly Data The following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results from operations for each of the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 . 53 Table of Contents Three Months Ended, December 31, 2012 September 30, 2012 June 30, 2012 March 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 September 30, 2011 June 30, 2011 March 31, 2011 (In thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data Revenue $ 219,212 $ 216,623 $ 217,375 $ 219,413 $ 214,086 $ 216,824 $ 215,243 $ 222,280 Expenses: Cost of services (exclusive of rent cost of revenue and depreciation and amortization shown below) 185,385 182,243 180,215 183,131 177,021 173,548 171,249 175,461 Rent cost of revenue 4,773 4,639 4,539 4,556 4,869 4,413 4,547 4,570 General and administrative 5,701 6,021 6,427 6,100 6,177 5,423 7,237 6,893 Litigation settlement costs (net of recoveries) (4,488 ) Depreciation and amortization 6,276 6,258 6,591 6,275 6,193 6,459 6,432 6,145 Impairment of long-lived assets 270,478 202,135 199,161 197,772 200,062 194,260 455,833 189,465 193,069 Other income (expenses): Interest expense (8,884 ) (8,790 ) (10,521 ) (9,565 ) (9,675 ) (9,711 ) (9,662 ) (9,946 ) Interest income 110 125 132 145 161 170 208 175 Other (expense) income (52 ) (57 ) 106 (29 ) (22 ) (123 ) (30 ) (324 ) Equity in earnings of joint venture 526 461 490 471 372 472 557 554 Debt retirement costs (168 ) (3,958 ) Total other expenses, net (8,300 ) (8,429 ) (13,751 ) (8,978 ) (9,164 ) (9,192 ) (8,927 ) (9,541 ) Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes 8,777 9,033 5,852 10,373 10,662 (248,201 ) 16,851 19,670 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 3,082 2,965 2,355 4,036 3,936 (15,387 ) 6,467 8,009 Net income (loss) $ 5,695 $ 6,068 $ 3,497 $ 6,337 $ 6,726 $ (232,814 ) $ 10,384 $ 11,661 Earnings (loss) per share, basic: Earnings (loss) per share $ 0.15 $ 0.16 $ 0.09 $ 0.17 $ 0.18 $ (6.26 ) $ 0.28 $ 0.31 Earnings (loss) per share, diluted: Earnings (loss) per share $ 0.15 $ 0.16 $ 0.09 $ 0.17 $ 0.18 $ (6.26 ) $ 0.28 $ 0.31 Weighted-average common shares outstanding, basic 37,437 37,431 37,400 37,285 37,179 37,164 37,154 37,079 Weighted-average common shares outstanding, diluted 37,543 37,503 37,497 37,407 37,285 37,164 37,354 37,326 Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected data from our consolidated statements of cash flows (in thousands): 54 Table of Contents Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Cash Flows from Continuing Operations Net cash provided by operating activities $ 42,676 $ 99,380 $ 35,391 Net cash used in investing activities (19,525 ) (39,917 ) (76,405 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (37,165 ) (47,638 ) 41,678 Net (decrease) increase in cash and equivalents (14,014 ) 11,825 664 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 16,017 4,192 3,528 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 2,003 $ 16,017 $ 4,192 Based upon our current level of operations, we believe that cash generated from operations, cash on hand and borrowings available to us will be adequate to meet our anticipated debt service requirements, capital expenditures and working capital needs for at least the next 12 months. One element of our business strategy is to selectively pursue acquisitions and strategic alliances. Any acquisitions or strategic alliances may result in the incurrence of, or assumption by us, of additional indebtedness. We continually assess our capital needs and may seek additional financing through a variety of methods including through an extension of our senior secured credit facility or by accessing available debt and equity markets, as considered necessary to fund capital expenditures and potential acquisitions or for other purposes. Our future operating performance will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. For additional discussion, see " Other Factors Affecting Liquidity and Capital Resources " below. Years Ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 Net cash provided by operating activities primarily consists of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items including depreciation and amortization, provision for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, and goodwill impairment change, as well as the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $42.7 million and consisted of net income of $21.6 million , positive non-cash items of $49.0 million , and negative working capital and other activities of $28.0 million . The non-cash items consisted primarily of depreciation and amortization of $25.4 million . Working capital and other activities primarily consisted of an increase in accounts receivable of $15.3 million , a decrease in insurance liability risks of $1.6 million , and an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $10.1 million . The increase in accounts receivable after considering the provision for doubtful accounts was $7.5 million . Days sales outstanding ("DSO") increased from 42.4 for the three months ended December 31, 2011 to 44.5 for the three months ended December 31, 2012. The increase in DSO was due to the relative increase of managed care and other revenue which have a higher DSO relative to the Medicare revenue as well as licensure issues causing delays in collections for our general inpatient hospice unit that opened in 2012. Investing activities used $19.5 million in 2012, as compared to $39.9 million in 2011. The primary use of funds in 2012 consisted of $1.1 million of cash consideration paid for acquisition of healthcare facilities and businesses and capital expenditures of $19.5 million offset by the cash proceeds of $1.1 million received from a sale of equipment. Net cash used in financing activities was $37.2 million in 2012, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $47.6 million in 2011. In 2012, net cash used in financing activities primarily reflects our borrowings under our line of credit net of repayment of $35.0 million as well as scheduled and voluntary repayment of long-term debt of $165.4 million as we paid off our 2014 Notes with a $100.0 million expansion of our term debt and a draw on our revolving credit facility. Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 Net cash provided by operating activities primarily consists of net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items including depreciation and amortization, provision for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, and goodwill impairment change, as well as the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $99.4 million and consisted of net loss of $204.0 million , offset by adjustments for non-cash items of $299.8 million and $3.6 million provided by working capital and other activities. The majority of the $299.8 million of non-cash items was the result of the $270.5 million impairment of long-lived assets charge. Working capital and other activities primarily consisted of an increase in accounts receivable of $9.3 million and a decrease in insurance liability risks of $1.5 million offset by a $3.3 million increase of payments in notes receivable, $7.0 million decrease in other current and non-current assets, increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $1.8 million , increase in employee compensation and benefits of $1.4 million and $1.0 million increase in other long-term liabilities. The increase in accounts receivable after considering the provision for doubtful accounts was $1.0 million . DSO increased from 41.2 for the three months ended December 31, 2010 to 42.4 for the three months ended December 31, 2011. 55 Table of Contents Investing activities used $39.9 million in 2011, as compared to $76.4 million in 2010. The primary use of funds in 2011 consisted of $24.0 million of cash consideration paid for acquisition of healthcare facilities and businesses and capital expenditures of $16.3 million offset by the cash proceeds of $0.4 million received from a sale of land. Net cash used by financing activities was $47.6 million in 2011, as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $41.7 million in 2010. In 2011, net cash provided by financing activities primarily reflects net repayment of borrowings under our line of credit of $26.0 million as well as scheduled and voluntary repayment of long-term debt of $21.2 million . Principal Debt Obligations Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash on hand, our cash flows from operations and our senior secured credit facility, which is subject to the satisfaction of certain financial covenants therein. Our primary liquidity requirements are for debt service on our first lien senior secured term loan, capital expenditures and working capital. We are significantly leveraged. As of December 31, 2012 , we had $449.0 million in aggregate indebtedness outstanding, consisting of a $408.6 million first lien senior secured term loan (net of the unamortized portion of the original issue discount of $3.0 million ), $35.0 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility, and other debt of approximately $5.4 million . Furthermore, we had $3.9 million in outstanding letters of credit against our $100.0 million revolving credit facility, leaving approximately $61.1 million of additional borrowing capacity under our "senior secured credit facility" as of December 31, 2012 . Substantially all of our subsidiaries guarantee the first lien senior secured term loan and our revolving credit facility. For 2012 , 2011 , and 2010 , our interest expense, net of interest income, was $37.2 million , $38.3 million , and $36.1 million , respectively. For 2012 and 2011 , we had no capitalized interest expense compared to $0.3 million in 2010, related to new facilities that were developed. If our remaining ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is insufficient for our capital requirements, we will be required to seek additional sources of financing, including issuing equity, which may be dilutive to our current stockholders, or incurring additional debt. Our ability to incur additional debt is subject to the restrictions in our senior secured credit facility. We cannot assure you that the restrictions contained in the senior secured credit facility will permit us to borrow the funds that we need to finance our operations, or that additional debt will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain funds sufficient to finance our capital requirements, we may have to forego opportunities to expand our business, including the acquisition of additional facilities or agencies. Term Loan and Revolving Loan On April 9, 2010, we entered into an up to $360.0 million term loan and a $100.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Prior Credit Agreement") that replaced the senior secured term loan and revolving credit facility that were set to mature in June 2012. On April 12, 2012, we entered into an Amendment and Restatement and Additional Term Loan Assumption Agreement (Restated Credit Agreement) that amended and restated the Prior Credit Agreement and pursuant to which, among other things, the size of the Company's existing senior secured term loan was increased by $100.0 million (hereinafter referred to as the incremental senior secured term loan). We refer to the senior secured term loan and revolving credit facility provided under the Restated Credit Agreement as our senior secured credit facility. The incremental senior secured term loan bears interest, at our option, at the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") (subject to a floor of 1.50%) plus a margin of 5.25% or the prime rate (subject to a floor of 2.50%) plus a margin of 4.25%. As part of the refinancing, the interest rate on the existing senior secured term loan was amended to match the interest rate of the incremental senior secured term loan. The interest rate on the existing revolving credit facility was also amended to be, at our option, LIBOR plus a margin of between 4.25% and 4.50% (based upon consolidated senior leverage) or the prime rate plus a margin of between 3.25% and 3.50% (based upon consolidated senior leverage). There is no longer a LIBOR or prime rate floor with respect to the revolving credit facility. Pursuant to the Restated Credit Agreement, the quarterly term loan amortization payments increased to $2.6 million, beginning June 30, 2012, compared to $0.9 million under the Prior Credit Agreement. Additionally, the maximum portion of the annual Consolidated Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Restated Credit Agreement) to be applied to term debt reductions increased to 75% from 50%, subject to stepdowns to 50% and 25% based on consolidated leverage. We do not expect to have a Consolidated Excess Cash Flow payment for 2012. We also increased our ability to refinance a portion of the credit facility with U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") insured debt up to $250.0 million, subject to certain credit facility covenants. We have received the formal portfolio conditional credit approval from HUD for up to an aggregate of $460.0 million in HUD insured loans secured by up to 78 facilities under HUD's Section 232 loan program, which provides loans for nursing homes, assisted living and related facilities. However, HUD has informed us that it will not process or underwrite any HUD insured loans until such time as the BMFEA matter (which is described in Note 13, " Commitments and Contingencies" to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report) is resolved to HUD's satisfaction. There can be no assurance whether or when such resolution might be obtained. Any HUD insured borrowings beyond $250.0 million would necessitate either refinancing 56 Table of Contents the senior secured credit facility in full or otherwise seeking a waiver or amendment from the senior secured lenders. We have not yet determined the amount of borrowings we will ultimately seek under the HUD insured loan program, and all loan applications will be subject to further review and approval by HUD. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will ultimately be approved for and close any HUD insured loans, what the timing of any approvals or closings would be, or what the interest rates on any HUD insured loans would be. The HUD approval process is subject to a number of contingencies, many of which are out of our control including the satisfactory resolution of the BMFEA matter as discussed above. The Restated Credit Agreement requires that all of the net proceeds from any HUD insured loans be used to pay down the term portion of the senior secured credit facility. We expensed fees paid in connection with the refinancing of the Prior Credit Agreement in the amount of $2.0 million in conjunction with the amended senior secured credit facility. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral under the senior secured credit facility. Amounts borrowed under the senior secured term loan may be prepaid at any time without penalty, except for LIBOR breakage costs. Commitments under the revolving credit facility terminate on April 9, 2015. The senior secured term loan matures on April 9, 2016. We have the right to increase our borrowings under the revolving credit facility up to an aggregate amount of $150.0 million provided that we are in compliance with the Restated Credit Agreement, that the additional debt would not cause any covenant violation of the Restated Credit Agreement, and that existing or new lenders within the Restated Credit Agreement agree to increase their commitments. To reduce the risk related to interest rate fluctuations, the Prior Credit Agreement required us to enter into, and the Restated Credit Agreement requires us to continue to maintain, an interest rate swap, cap or similar agreement to effectively fix or cap the interest rate on 40% of its funded long-term debt within three months of the April 2010 commencement of the senior secured credit facility. We entered into two interest rate hedge transactions, as described in Note 4 - "Fair Value Measurements," in order to comply with this requirement. We must maintain compliance with certain financial covenants measured on a quarterly basis, including an interest coverage minimum ratio as well as a total leverage maximum ratio. The covenants also include certain limitations, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, liens, investments in other businesses, annual capital expenditures. Furthermore, we must permanently reduce the principal amount of debt outstanding by applying the proceeds from any asset sale, insurance or condemnation payments, additional indebtedness or equity securities issuances, and 25% to 50% of excess cash flows from operations based on the leverage ratio then in effect. We believe that we were in compliance with our debt covenants as of December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, our fixed charge coverage ratio (defined as our adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures divided by our cash interest expense) was 2.5 and our leverage ratio (defined as our total outstanding debt divided by our adjusted EBITDA) was 4.2 compared to thresholds of greater than 1.75 and less than 4.75, respectively. Senior Subordinated Notes On May 12, 2012, we redeemed the entire $130.0 million outstanding principal amount plus all accrued but unpaid interest, of the 2014 Notes. The proceeds from the incremental senior secured term loan (as well as a draw on the revolving portion of the senior secured credit facility) were used to fund the redemption of the outstanding 2014 Notes at par plus accrued interest. In addition, the Company expensed unamortized deferred financing fees and original issue discount in the amount of $1.9 million in conjunction with the redemption of the 2014 Notes. The 2014 Notes were issued in December 2005 in the aggregate principal amount of $200.0 million, with an interest rate of 11.0% and a discount of $1.3 million. Interest was payable semiannually in January and July of each year. The 2014 Notes were to mature on January 15, 2014. The 2014 Notes were unsecured senior subordinated obligations and ranked junior to all of the Company's existing and future senior indebtedness, including indebtedness under the senior secured credit facility. The 2014 Notes were guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by certain of the Company's subsidiaries. Capital Expenditures We intend to invest in the maintenance and general upkeep of our facilities on an ongoing basis. We also expect to perform renovations of our existing facilities every five to ten years to remain competitive. Combined, we expect that these activities will amount to approximately $1,500 per bed annually. In addition, we are continuing with the expansion of our Express Recovery units. These units cost, on average, between $0.4 million and $0.6 million each. We completed one Express Recovery unit in fiscal year 2012. We anticipate that we will have capital expenditures in 2013 of approximately $20.0 million to $23.0 million . We will continue to assess our capital spending plans on an ongoing basis. Other Factors Affecting Liquidity and Capital Resources Medical and Professional Malpractice and Workers' Compensation Insurance . Our skilled nursing facilities and other businesses, like physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers, are subject to a significant number of legal actions 57 Table of Contents alleging malpractice, negligence or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. To protect ourselves from the cost of these claims, we maintain professional liability and general liability as well as workers' compensation insurance in amounts and with deductibles that we believe to be sufficient for our operations. Historically, unfavorable pricing and availability trends emerged in the professional liability and workers' compensation insurance market and the insurance market in general that caused the cost of these liability coverages to generally increase dramatically. Many insurance underwriters became more selective in the insurance limits and types of coverage they would provide as a result of rising settlement costs and the significant failures of some nationally known insurance underwriters. As a result, we experienced substantial changes in our professional liability insurance program beginning in 2001. Specifically, we were required to assume substantial self-insured retentions for our professional liability claims. A self-insured retention is a minimum amount of damages and expenses (including legal fees) that we must pay for each claim. We use actuarial methods to estimate the value of the losses that may occur within this self-insured retention level and we are required under our workers' compensation insurance agreements to post a letter of credit or set aside cash in trust funds to securitize the estimated losses that we may incur. Because of the high retention levels, we cannot predict with certainty the actual amount of the losses we will assume and pay. We estimate our self-insured general and professional liability reserves on a quarterly basis and our self-insured workers' compensation reserve on a semiannual basis, based upon actuarial analyses using the most recent trends of claims, settlements and other relevant data from our own and our industry's loss history. Based upon these analyses, at December 31, 2012, we had reserved $16.3 million net of $3.8 million in insurance recoveries for known or unknown or potential self-insured general and professional liability claims and $16.2 million for self-insured workers' compensation claims. Of these reserves, we estimate that a total of $9.3 million , consisting of approximately $5.6 million for self-insured general and professional liability claims based on historical experience and current claims activity and $3.7 million for self-insured workers' compensation claims, will be payable within 12 months; however, there are no set payment schedules and there can be no assurance that the payment amount in the next 12 months will not be significantly larger or smaller. To the extent that subsequent claims information varies from loss estimates, the liabilities will be adjusted to reflect current loss data. There can be no assurance that in the future general and professional liability or workers' compensation insurance will be available at a reasonable price and that we will not have to further increase our levels of self-insurance. Inflation . We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the Medicare program. We also derive revenue from state Medicaid and similar reimbursement programs. Payments under these programs generally provide for reimbursement levels that are adjusted for inflation annually based upon the state's fiscal year for the Medicaid programs and in each October for the Medicare program. However, there can be no assurance that these adjustments will continue in the future and, if received, will reflect the actual increase in our costs for providing healthcare services. Labor and supply expenses make up a substantial portion of our operating expenses. Those expenses can be subject to increase in periods of rising inflation and when labor shortages occur in the marketplace. To date, we have generally been able to implement cost control measures or obtain increases in reimbursement sufficient to offset increases in these expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in offsetting future cost increases. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We had outstanding letters of credit of $3.9 million under our $100.0 million revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2012 . Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2012 (in thousands): Total Less Than 1 Yr. 1-3 Yrs. 3-5 Yrs. More than 5 Yrs. Long-term debt obligations Senior secured credit facility (1) 446,600 10,487 55,973 380,140 Other long-term debt obligations 5,380 2,852 1,919 394 215 Operating lease obligations (2) 131,375 19,763 35,454 29,917 46,241 $ 583,355 $ 33,102 $ 93,346 $ 410,451 $ 46,456 ________________ (1) Based on implied forward one-month LIBOR rates in the yield curve as of December 31, 2012 . (2) We lease some of our facilities under noncancelable operating leases. The leases generally provide for our payment of property taxes, insurance and repairs, and have rent escalation clauses, principally based upon the Consumer Price 58 Table of Contents Index or other fixed annual adjustments. The amounts shown reflect the future minimum rental payments under these leases.