Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements and Factors That May Affect Future Results The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements include references to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, as well as statements including words such as expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, projects, and similar expressions. In addition, statements that refer to our plans to sell the assets of our information management business to Carlyle, timing of reporting discontinued operations, projections of our future financial performance, anticipated growth and trends in our businesses and in our industries, the anticipated impacts of acquisitions, our intent to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future, the actions we intend to take as part of our new strategy, the expected impact of our new strategy and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions, based on our current expectations about future events and may not prove to be accurate. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Risk Factors, set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 3, 2015. We encourage you to read that section carefully. OVERVIEW Our business Symantec Corporation is a global leader in security, backup and availability solutions. Our market leading products and services protect people and information in any environment from the mobile device in your pocket, to the enterprise data center, to cloud-based systems. Founded in April 1982, Symantec operates one of the largest global threat-intelligence networks. The company has more than 19,000 employees in approximately 50 countries. On August 10, 2015, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the assets of our information management business to Carlyle. The sale is expected to close by the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2016, subject to regulatory approvals and certain closing conditions, including the operational separation, in all material respects, of the information management business. For additional information about the planned divestiture of our information management business see "Planned divestiture of our information management business" below and Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Fiscal calendar We have a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31. The three months ended July 3, 2015 and July 4, 2014 consisted of 13 and 14 weeks, respectively. Strategy In our security business, we operate a global civilian cyber intelligence threat network and track a vast number of threats across the Internet from hundreds of millions of mobile devices, endpoints, and servers across the globe. We believe one of our competitive advantages is our database of threat indicators which allows us to reduce the number of false positives and provide faster and better protection for customers through our products. We are leveraging our capabilities in threat protection and data loss prevention and extending them into our core security offerings. We are also pioneering new solutions in growing markets like cloud, advanced threat protection, information protection and cyber security services. Our security strategy is to deliver a unified security analytics platform that provides big data analytics, utilizes our vast telemetry, provides visibility into real-time global threats, and powers Symantec and third-party security analytics applications; leverage this analytics platform to provide best-in-class consumer and enterprise security products; and offer cyber security services that provide a full-suite of services from monitoring to incident response to threat intelligence, all supported by over 500 cyber security experts and nine global security response centers. In our information management business, with a global installed customer base, we have a comprehensive portfolio that spans backup and recovery, storage management and archiving. Our information availability offerings help customers keep their data and systems available where they need them, when they need them, and irrespective of their location. Our information insight solutions help customers know what data they have and leverage that knowledge to help manage such data better and inform strategic decisions. Our information management product strategy is to expand our best-in-class foundational portfolio across backup, storage management, business continuity, archiving and eDiscovery through software, integrated appliances and the cloud; deliver next-generation availability solutions through a coordinated orchestration architecture focused on managing and moving 16 Table of Contents mission-critical data in a hybrid cloud world; and enable next-generation insight solutions that provide visibility, action, and automated control across an organizations information landscape through an intelligent information fabric that integrates our portfolio and third-party ecosystems. In fiscal 2016, we remain focused on our five priorities: running our businesses with a portfolio approach by managing certain businesses for operating margin; prioritizing investments for growth; further reducing costs and improving efficiencies; attracting top talent to our executive team; and continuing to return significant cash to shareholders. We are optimizing some of our businesses by methodically evaluating every product line to balance our profitability targets against our objectives. In order to prioritize investments for growth, we are realigning our research and development budgets to apply the best resources to the most promising market opportunities. To further reduce costs and improve efficiencies, we are consolidating our global footprint, data centers and product support capabilities as well as streamlining the way we run our businesses with initiatives to increase research and development efficiencies and sales productivity. We are focused on continuing to attract talented business and technology leaders to the company. We remain committed to returning significant cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and share buybacks. Planned divestiture of our information management business On August 10, 2015, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the assets of our information management business to Carlyle for cash consideration of approximately $8.0 billion and the assumption of certain liabilities. The divestiture of our information management business will help us accelerate our unified security strategy, provide a stronger financial foundation for strategic investments, and return additional cash to our shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends. The sale is expected to close by the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2016, subject to regulatory approvals and certain closing conditions, including the operational separation, in all material respects, of the information management business. We expect that effective at the beginning of our third quarter of fiscal 2016, the financial results of our information management business will be presented as discontinued operations on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income when we meet the criteria for the information management business to be classified as held for sale. Subsequently, we will have two remaining reporting segments, Consumer Security and Enterprise Security. For additional information about the planned divestiture, see Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this quarterly report. Our operating segments Our current operating segments are significant strategic business units that offer different products and services distinguished by customer needs. The three reporting segments, which are the same as our operating segments, are: Consumer Securit y: Our Consumer Security segment focuses on making it simple for customers to be productive and protected at home and at work. Our Norton-branded services provide multi-layer security and identity protection on major desktop and mobile operating systems, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families, and small businesses. Enterprise Security : Our Enterprise Security segment protects organizations so they can securely conduct business while leveraging new platforms and data. Our Enterprise Security segment includes our threat protection products, information protection products, trust services, and cyber security services. Information Management : Our Information Management segment focuses on backup and recovery, archiving and eDiscovery, storage and high availability solutions, helping to ensure that our customers IT infrastructure and mission-critical applications are protected, managed and available. For additional information about the planned divestiture of our information management business see Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this quarterly report. For further description of our operating segments see Note 6 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this quarterly report. 17 Table of Contents Financial results and trends The follow ing table provides an overview of key financial metrics for the periods indicated below: Three Months Ended July 3, 2015 July 4, 2014 (Dollars in millions) Consolidated Income Statement Data: Total net revenue $ 1,499 $ 1,735 Gross profit 1,245 1,426 Operating income 201 322 Operating margin percentage 13 % 19 % Consolidated Cash Flow and Balance Sheet Data: Cash flow from operations $ 300 $ 293 Deferred revenue 3,419 3,713 The three months ended July 4, 2014 consisted of 14 weeks, whereas the three months ended July 3, 2015 consisted of 13 weeks. The 14th week contributed incremental revenue, cost of revenue and operating expenses to the quarter ended July 4, 2014 when compared to the quarter ended July 3, 2015. Total net revenue decreased $236 million primarily due to the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, the additional week in the quarter ended July 4, 2014, and declines in our consumer security products driven by our channel strategy to exit certain high-cost original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") arrangements and changes to our renewal practices. Gross margin was 83% for the three months ended July 3, 2015 compared to 82% for the three months ended July 4, 2014 primarily driven by lower fees under revenue-sharing agreements associated with our exit of certain high-cost OEM arrangements. Operating income decreased $121 million due to lower net revenue, partially offset by lower operating expenses. Our operating expenses decreased due to incremental operating expenses in the additional week of the quarter ended July 4, 2014, our cost savings initiatives and favorable foreign currency effects of approximately $40 million. This was partially offset by a $104 million increase in restructuring, separation, and transition costs in connection with our fiscal 2015 restructuring and separation plan initiated in connection with our plans to separate our business into two standalone companies. We expect our operating margins to fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including our operating results and the timing and amount of expenses incurred. Net cash provided by operating activities was $300 million for the three months ended July 3, 2015, which resulted from net income of $117 million adjusted for non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization charges of $103 million and stock-based compensation expense of $53 million , as well as net changes in trade receivables resulting in inflows of $391 million . These amounts were partially offset by decreases in deferred revenue of $249 million and accrued compensation and benefits of $115 million . Total deferred revenue decreased $294 million from $3,713 million at July 4, 2014 to $3,419 million at July 3, 2015 primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. Critical accounting policies and estimates There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the three months ended July 3, 2015, as compared to those disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 3, 2015. Recently issued authoritative guidance See Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this quarterly report for recently issued authoritative guidance, including the respective expected dates of adoption and effects on our results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth certain Consolidated Statements of Income data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended July 3, 2015 July 4, 2014 Net revenue: Content, subscription, and maintenance 90 % 91 % License 10 % 9 % Total net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Content, subscription, and maintenance 15 % 16 % License 1 % 2 % Amortization of intangible assets 1 % 1 % Total cost of revenue 17 % 18 % Gross profit 83 % 82 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 35 % 37 % Research and development 19 % 18 % General and administrative 6 % 6 % Amortization of intangible assets 1 % 2 % Restructuring, separation, and transition 8 % 1 % Total operating expenses 70 % 64 % Operating income 13 % 19 % Non-operating expense, net 2 % 1 % The total percentages may not add due to rounding. Total net revenue Three Months Ended July 3, 2015 July 4, 2014 % Change (Dollars in millions) Content, subscription, and maintenance revenue $ 1,352 $ 1,574 (14 )% License revenue 147 161 (9 )% Total $ 1,499 $ 1,735 (14 )% Content, subscription, and maintenance revenue represented 90% and 91% of total net revenue for the three months ended July 3, 2015 and July 4, 2014, respectively. Content, subscription, and maintenance revenue decreased $222 million primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations of approximately $102 million, the additional week in the quarter ended July 4, 2014 and declines in our consumer security products driven by our channel strategy to exit certain high-cost OEM arrangements and changes to our renewal practices. License revenue decreased $14 million primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations of approximately $13 million. 19 Table of Contents Net revenue and operating income by segment Three Months Ended July 3, 2015 July 4, 2014 % Change (Dollars in millions) Total net revenue: Consumer Security $ 430 $ 533 (19) % Enterprise Security 482 552 (13) % Information Management 587 650 (10) % Percentage of total net revenue: Consumer Security 29 % 31 % Enterprise Security 32 % 32 % Information Management 39 % 37 % Operating income: Consumer Security $ 245 $ 268 (9) % Enterprise Security 30 70 (57) % Information Management 135 89 52 % Operating margin: Consumer Security 57 % 50 % Enterprise Security 6 % 13 % Information Management 23 % 14 % Consumer Security revenue decreased $103 million primarily due to the impact of the additional week in the quarter ended July 4, 2014 and unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations of approximately $34 million. In addition, Consumer Security revenue decreased due to our channel strategy to exit unprofitable retail arrangements and certain high-cost OEM arrangements, coupled with the impact of our decision to change our renewal practices. Consumer Security operating income decreased $23 million primarily due to the decrease in revenue, partially offset by decreases in cost of revenue, salaries and wages and marketing expenses. Enterprise Security revenue decreased $70 million primarily due to the impact of the additional week in the quarter ended July 4, 2014 and unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations of approximately $36 million. The decrease of $40 million in operating income was mainly due to the reduction in revenue which was partially offset by decreased headcount related expenses. Information Management revenue decreased $63 million primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations of approximately $45 million and the impact of the additional week in the quarter ended July 4, 2014. In addition, strong performance from NetBackup products was partially offset by weakness in Backup Exec and our storage management offerings. Information Management operating income increased $46 million driven by decreased headcount related expenses which was partially offset by the decrease in revenue. 20 Table of Contents Net revenue by geographic region Three Months Ended July 3, 2015 July 4, 2014 % Change (Dollars in millions) Revenue by geographic region: Americas (U.S., Canada and Latin America) $ 855 $ 940 (9 )% EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) 391 495 (21 )% Asia Pacific/Japan 253 300 (16 )% Total net revenue $ 1,499 $ 1,735 (14 )% U.S. 767 832 (8 )% International 732 903 (19 )% Total net revenue $ 1,499 $ 1,735 (14 )% Percentage of total net revenue: Americas (U.S., Canada and Latin America) 57 % 54 % EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) 26 % 29 % Asia Pacific/Japan 17 % 17 % U.S. 51 % 48 % International 49 % 52 % Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies unfavorably impacted our international revenue by approximately $115 million for the three months ended July 3, 2015 as compared to the same period last year. Revenue for the EMEA and Asia Pacific and Japan regions was impacted by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations of $87 million and $27 million, respectively. Our international sales are expected to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. As a result, revenue is expected to continue to be affected by foreign currency exchange rates as compared to the U.S. dollar. We are unable to predict the extent to which revenue in future periods will be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If international sales become a greater portion of our total sales in the future, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may have a potentially greater impact on our revenue and operating results. Cost of revenue Three Months Ended July 3, 2015 July 4, 2014 % Change (Dollars in millions) Cost of content, subscription, and maintenance $ 219 $ 269 (19 )% Cost of license 22 27 (19 )% Amortization of intangible assets 13 13 % Total $ 254 $ 309 (18 )% Cost of content, subscription, and maintenance consists primarily of technical support costs, costs of billable services, and fees to OEMs under revenue-sharing agreements. Cost of license consists primarily of royalties paid to third parties under technology licensing agreements, appliance manufacturing costs, and other direct material costs. Intangible assets are primarily comprised of developed technologies and patents from acquired companies. Our total cost of revenue decreased for the three months ended July 3, 2015 compared to the same period last year, primarily due to the additional week in the quarter ended July 4, 2014, decrease in OEM and other royalty fees and favorable foreign currency effects. 21 Table of Contents Operating expenses Three Months Ended July 3, 2015 July 4, 2014 % Change (Dollars in millions) Sales and marketing expense $ 521 $ 644 (19 )% Research and development expense 284 308 (8 )% General and administrative expense 96 103 (7 )% Amortization of intangible assets 19 29 (34 )% Restructuring, separation, and transition 124 20 520 % Total $ 1,044 $ 1,104 (5 )% We experienced favorable foreign currency effects on our operating expenses of approximately $40 million in the three months ended July 3, 2015 as compared to the same period last year. Sales and marketing expense decreased $123 million primarily due to the additional week in the quarter ended July 4, 2014, lower salaries and wages due to lower headcount, and to a lesser extent, decreased advertising and promotion costs. Research and development expense and general and administrative expense decreased $24 million and $7 million , respectively, primarily due to the additional week in the quarter ended July 4, 2014. Amortization of intangible assets decreased $10 million primarily due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during the year ended April 3, 2015. Restructuring, separation, and transition costs include severance, facilities, separation, transition and other related costs. The charges for the three months ended July 3, 2015 primarily relate to our fiscal 2015 restructuring and separation plan initiated in connection with our plans to separate our business into two standalone companies, and transition costs related to the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system for the information management business. The charges for the three months ended July 4, 2014 primarily relate to our fiscal 2014 restructuring plan which was substantially completed as of March 28, 2014. For further information on restructuring, separation, and transition, see Note 4 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this quarterly report. Non-operating expense, net Three Months Ended July 3, 2015 July 4, 2014 % Change (Dollars in millions) Interest income $ 3 $ 3 % Interest expense (20 ) (21 ) (5 )% Other (expense) income, net (11 ) 1 * Non-operating expense, net $ (28 ) $ (17 ) 65 % * Percentage is not meaningful. Non-operating expense, net, increased $11 million primarily due to net foreign currency remeasurement loss. Provision for income taxes Three Months Ended July 3, 2015 July 4, 2014 % Change (Dollars in millions) Provision for income taxes $ 56 $ 69 (19) % Effective tax rate on earnings 32 % 23 % 9 % Our effective tax rate was approximately 32% and 23% for the three months ended July 3, 2015 and July 4, 2014, respectively. Our effective tax rate differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and domestic manufacturing incentives, partially offset by state income taxes. The higher effective tax rate for the three months ended July 3, 2015 as compared to the three months ended July 4, 2014 is due primarily to a different geographic mix of earnings and the treatment of certain transaction costs in determining the effective tax rate. The tax benefit associated with certain of these transaction costs will change as a result of the sale of the information management business. For additional information about the planned divestiture of our information management business see Note 11. 22 Table of Contents For the three months ended July 3, 2015 and July 4, 2014, the effective tax rate was reduced by tax benefits primarily resulting from settlements with certain taxing authorities and lapses of statutes of limitations of $3 million and $14 million , respectively. For the three months ended July 3, 2015, these tax benefits were offset as a result of certain transaction costs not fully deductible for tax purposes. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and international tax jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our international earnings were generated from subsidiaries organized in Ireland and Singapore. Our results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent that our geographical mix of income becomes more weighted toward jurisdictions with higher tax rates and would be favorably affected to the extent the relative geographic mix shifts to lower tax jurisdictions. Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year. Although potential resolution of uncertain tax positions involve multiple tax periods and jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to these audits could decrease (whether by payment, release, or a combination of both) in the next 12 months by $33 million , which could reduce our income tax provision and therefore benefit the resulting effective tax rate. On July 27, 2015, the U.S. Tax Court invalidated a U.S. Treasury regulation requiring the inclusion of stock-based compensation in certain intercompany cost-sharing agreements. We are currently evaluating the impact of this decision on our current and historic tax filing positions. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing income tax controversies and the impact, if any, of the expected tolling of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Planned divestiture of our information management business On August 10, 2015, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the assets of our information management business to Carlyle for cash consideration of approximately $8.0 billion and the assumption of certain liabilities. We are in the process of evaluating the transaction and its impact on our consolidated financial statements, including evaluating the resulting net gain and income tax expense that will be recognized, based on all the terms of the agreement. The Company's U.S. and foreign income taxes payable resulting from the transaction are estimated to range from $1.3 billion to $1.7 billion . Sources of cash We have historically relied on cash flow from operations, borrowings under a credit facility, and issuances of debt and equity securities for our liquidity needs. As of July 3, 2015 , we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $3.9 billion and an unused credit facility of $1.0 billion , resulting in a liquidity position of approximately $4.9 billion . As of July 3, 2015 , $2.3 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were held by our foreign subsidiaries. We have provided U.S. deferred taxes on a portion of our undistributed foreign earnings sufficient to address the incremental U.S. tax that would be due if we needed such portion of these funds to support our operations in the U.S. Revolving Credit Facility. In fiscal 2011, we entered into a $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (credit facility), which was amended in fiscal 2013. The amendment extended the term of the credit facility to June 7, 2017. Under the terms of this credit facility, we must comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, including a covenant to maintain a specified ratio of debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). As of July 3, 2015 , we were in compliance with the required covenants, and no amounts were outstanding. We believe that our existing cash and investment balances, our available revolving credit facility, our ability to issue new debt instruments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, as well as to fund any cash dividends, principal and interest payments on debt, and repurchases of our stock, for at least the next 12 months and foreseeable future. Since the beginning of fiscal 2014, we have implemented a capital allocation strategy pursuant to which we expect to return over time approximately 50% of free cash flow to stockholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases, while still enabling our company to invest in its future. Our strategy emphasizes organic growth through internal innovation and will be complemented by acquisitions that fit strategically and meet specific internal profitability hurdles. Uses of cash Our principal cash requirements include working capital, capital expenditures, payments of principal and interest on debt, and payments of taxes. Also, we may, from time to time, engage in the open market purchase of our notes prior to their maturity. Furthermore, our capital allocation strategy contemplates a quarterly cash dividend. In addition, we regularly evaluate our ability to repurchase stock, pay debts, and acquire other businesses. Stock Repurchases. For the three months ended July 3, 2015, we repurchased approximately 4 million shares, or $90 million of our common stock. For the three months ended July 4, 2014, we repurchased 6 million shares, or $125 million , of our 23 Table of Contents common stock. The timing and amount of common shares purchased under our authorized stock repurchase programs will depend on various factors, including our business plans, financial performance and market conditions. On August 9, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a new $1.5 billion stock repurchase program which commenced immediately and does not have an expiration date. This is in addition to the previous program with $1.1 billion remaining authorized for future repurchase as of July 3, 2015 . Dividend Program. During the three months ended July 3, 2015, we declared and paid aggregate cash dividends of $103 million or $0.15 per common share. During the three months ended July 4, 2014, we declared and paid cash dividends of $104 million or $0.15 per common share. Our restricted stock and performance-based stock units have dividend equivalent rights entitling holders to dividend equivalents to be paid in the form of cash upon vesting for each share of the underlying units. On August 11, 2015 , we declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share of common stock to be paid on September 16, 2015 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 26, 2015 . All shares of common stock issued and outstanding, and unvested restricted stock and performance-based stock, as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively. Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. Restructuring Plans. In fiscal 2015, we announced plans to separate our security and information management businesses into standalone companies. In order to separate the business, we initiated a restructuring plan to properly align personnel and expect to incur associated severance and facilities costs. We also expect to incur separation costs in the form of advisory, consulting and disentanglement expenses. These actions are expected to be substantially completed by the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2016. We expect to incur total severance and facilities costs between $165 million and $195 million . We expect to incur separation costs between $170 million and $190 million , excluding tax implications and potential advisor fees payable upon separation. Total restructuring and separation costs are expected to be between $335 million and $385 million . As of July 3, 2015 , liabilities for excess facility obligations at several locations around the world are expected to be paid throughout the respective lease terms as we continue to occupy these facilities, the longest of which extends through fiscal 2019. In fiscal 2013, we initiated a restructuring plan to reduce management and redundant personnel resulting in headcount reductions across the Company. As of July 3, 2015 , the related costs for severance and benefits are substantially complete; however, we may experience immaterial adjustments to existing accruals in subsequent periods. Note Repayment. In the second fiscal quarter of 2016, the principal balance of our 2.75% Senior Notes due September 2015 will mature and be settled by a cash payment of $350 million along with the $4.8 million semiannual interest payment. Cash flows The following table summarizes, for the periods indicated, selected items in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: Three Months Ended July 3, 2015 July 4, 2014 (Dollars in millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 300 $ 293 Investing activities 37 (724 ) Financing activities (238 ) (216 ) Operating activities We expect cash from our operating activities to fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of our billings and collections, our operating results, the timing and amount of tax and other liability payments. Net cash provided by operating activities was $300 million for the three months ended July 3, 2015, which resulted from net income of $117 million adjusted for non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization charges of $103 million and stock-based compensation expense of $53 million , as well as net changes in trade receivables resulting in inflows of $391 million . These amounts were partially offset by decreases in deferred revenue of $249 million and accrued compensation of $115 million . Net cash provided by operating activities was $293 million for the three months ended July 4, 2014 which resulted from net income of $236 million adjusted for non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization charges of $117 million , as well as net changes in trade receivables resulting in inflows of $308 million . These amounts were partially offset by decreases in deferred revenue of $185 million , and accrued compensation of $34 million , as well as by a tax payment of $104 million related to a previous IRS audit. 24 Table of Contents Investing activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $37 million for the three months ended July 3, 2015 and was primarily due to the proceeds of $298 million from maturities and sales of our short-term investments partially offset by purchases of $183 million of short-term investments and payments of $78 million for capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities was $724 million for three months ended July 4, 2014 and was primarily due to the purchase of $712 million of short-term investments and payments of $92 million for capital expenditures, partially offset by $99 million in proceeds from maturities and sales of our short-term investments. Financing activities Net cash used in financing activities was $238 million for the three months ended July 3, 2015, which was primarily due to cash dividend and dividend equivalent payments of $107 million , repurchases of our common stock of $90 million , and tax payments related to restricted stock units of $33 million . Net cash used in financing activities was $216 million for the three months ended July 4, 2014, which was primarily due to repurchases of our common stock of $125 million and cash dividends paid of $104 million , partially offset by net proceeds from sales of common stock through employee stock benefit plans of $23 million . Contractual obligations There have been no significant changes during the three months ended July 3, 2015 to the contractual obligations disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, set forth in Part II, Item 7, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 3, 2015. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers. It is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements and we have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We provide limited product warranties and the majority of our software license agreements contain provisions that indemnify licensees of our software from damages and costs resulting from claims alleging that our software infringes on the intellectual property rights of a third party. Historically, payments made under these provisions have been immaterial. We monitor the conditions that are subject to indemnification to identify if a loss has occurred.