Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to assist in understanding and assessing the trends and significant changes in our results of operations and financial condition as of the dates and for the periods presented and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Item 1, Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. As used in this MD&A, the words we, our, us and the Company, and similar terms, refer collectively to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report, as well as the financial information and MD&A contained in our Annual Report (defined below). All statements included or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements contain words such as may, will, project, might, expect, believe, anticipate, intend, could, would, estimate, continue, pursue, plans or prospect, or the negative or other variations thereof or comparable terminology. They include, but are not limited to, statements about the Companys expectations and beliefs regarding its future operations and financial performance. Historical results may not indicate future performance. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events, and there can be no assurance that they will be achieved or occur, in whole or in part, in the timeframes anticipated by the Company or at all. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties that cannot be predicted or quantified and, consequently, the actual performance of the Company may differ materially from that expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, particularly in Item 1A, Risk Factors, which was filed with the SEC on March 18, 2019 (the Annual Report), as well as others that are discussed in this Form 10-Q. These risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, natural disasters, general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operations, liquidity and stock price. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are made only as of the date of this report. The Company disclaims any obligation to update the forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Business Overview Genesis is a healthcare services company that through its subsidiaries owns and operates skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities and a rehabilitation therapy business. We have an administrative services company that provides a full complement of administrative and consultative services that allows our affiliated operators and third-party operators with whom we contract to better focus on delivery of healthcare services. At September 30, 2019, we provided inpatient services through 384 skilled nursing, senior/assisted living and behavioral health centers located in 26 states. Revenues of our owned, leased and otherwise consolidated inpatient businesses constitute approximately 86% of our revenues. We also provide a range of rehabilitation therapy services, including speech pathology, physical therapy, occupational therapy and respiratory therapy. These services are provided by rehabilitation therapists and assistants employed or contracted at substantially all of the centers operated by us, as well as by contract to healthcare facilities operated by others. After the elimination of intercompany revenues, the rehabilitation therapy services business constitutes approximately 11% of our revenues. We provide an array of other specialty medical services, including management services, physician services, staffing services, and other healthcare related services, which comprise the balance of our revenues. Significant Transactions and Events Strategic Partnerships Next Partnership On January 31, 2019, Welltower Inc. (Welltower) sold the real estate of 15 facilities to a real estate partnership (Next Partnership), of which we acquired a 46% membership interest for $16.0 million. The remaining interest is held by Next Healthcare 42 Table of Contents (Next), a related party. See Note 11 Related Party Transactions . We will continue to operate these facilities pursuant to a new master lease with the Next Partnership. The term of the master lease is 15 years with two five-year renewal options available. We will pay annual rent of $19.5 million, with no rent escalators for the first five years and an escalator of 2% beginning in the sixth lease year and thereafter. We also obtained a fixed price purchase option to acquire all of the real property of the facilities. The purchase option is exercisable between lease years five and seven, reducing in price each successive year down to a 10% premium over the original purchase price. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have concluded the Next Partnership qualifies as a VIE and we are the primary beneficiary. As such, we have consolidated all of the accounts of the Next Partnership in the accompanying financial statements. The right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease obligations related to the Next Partnership lease agreement have been fully eliminated in our consolidated financial statements. The Next Partnership acquired 22 skilled nursing facilities for a purchase price of $252.5 million but immediately sold seven of these facilities for $79.0 million. The initial consolidation of the remaining 15 facilities resulted in property and equipment of $173.5 million, non-recourse debt of $165.7 million, net of debt issuance costs, and non-controlling interest of $18.5 million. We have not finalized the analysis of the consideration and purchase price allocation and will continue to review this during the measurement period. The impact of consolidation on the accompanying consolidated statement of operations was not material for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 apart from non-recurring transaction costs of $5.3 million. Vantage Point Partnership On September 12, 2019, Welltower and Second Spring Healthcare Investments (Second Spring) sold the real estate of four and 14 facilities, respectively, to a real estate partnership (Vantage Point Partnership), in which we invested $37.5 million, consisting of an equity investment of $3.7 million, for an approximate 30% membership interest, and a formation loan of $33.7 million. The remaining membership interest is held by Vantage Point Capital, LLC (Vantage Point) for an investment of $85.3 million consisting of an equity investment of $8.5 million and a formation loan of $76.8 million. In conjunction with the facility sales, we received aggregate annual rent credits of approximately $30.3 million. We will continue to operate these facilities pursuant to a new master lease with the Vantage Point Partnership. The term of the master lease is 15 years with two five-year renewal options available. We will pay annual rent of approximately $33.1 million, with no rent escalators for the first four years and an escalator of 2% beginning in the fifth lease year and thereafter. We also obtained a fixed price purchase option to acquire all of the real property of the facilities. The purchase option is exercisable during certain periods in fiscal years 2024 and 2025 for a 10% premium over the original purchase price. Further, Vantage Point holds a put option that would require us to acquire its membership interests in the Vantage Point Partnership. The put option becomes exercisable if we opt not to purchase the facilities or upon the occurrence of certain events of default. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have concluded the Vantage Point Partnership qualifies as a VIE and we are the primary beneficiary. As such, we have consolidated all of the accounts of the Vantage Point Partnership in the accompanying financial statements. The ROU assets and lease obligations related to the Vantage Point Partnership lease agreement have been fully eliminated in our consolidated financial statements. The Vantage Point Partnership acquired all 18 skilled nursing facilities for a purchase price of $339.2 million. The initial consolidation primarily resulted in property and equipment of $339.2 million, non-recourse debt of $306.1 million, net of debt issuance costs, and non-controlling interest of $8.5 million. We have not finalized the analysis of the consideration and purchase price allocation and will continue to review this during the measurement period. Other than transaction costs of $11.0 million, the impact of consolidation on the accompanying consolidated statement of operations was not material for the three months ended September 30, 2019. In order to raise capital for the Vantage Point Partnership investment, we sold the real property of seven skilled nursing facilities and one senior/assisted living facility located in Georgia, New Jersey, Virginia, and Maryland to affiliates of Vantage Point for an aggregate purchase price of $91.8 million, using the majority of the proceeds to acquire our interest in the Vantage Point Partnership and repay indebtedness. The operations of seven of these facilities were also divested. Three of the facilities were subject to real estate loans and two were subject to HUD insured loans. See Note 7 Property and Equipment and Note 9 Long-Term Debt Real Estate Loans and Long-Term Debt HUD Insured Loans. We also divested the operations of an additional leased skilled nursing facility located in Georgia, marking an exit from the inpatient business in this state. The divested facilities had aggregate annual revenues of $84.1 million and annual pre-tax net income of $2.6 million. The divestitures resulted in an aggregate gain of $58.2 million. 43 Table of Contents Divestiture of Non-Strategic Facilities California Divestitures During the second quarter of 2019, we sold the real property and divested the operations of five skilled nursing facilities in California for a sale price of $56.5 million. Loan repayments of $41.8 million were paid on the facilities at closing. See Note 7 Property and Equipment and Note 9 Long-Term Debt Real Estate Loans and Long-Term Debt HUD Insured Loans. We incurred prepayment penalties and other closing costs of $2.4 million at settlement. The facilities generated annual revenues of $53.0 million and pre-tax net income of $1.6 million. The divestiture resulted in a gain of $25.0 million. We also divested the operations of one behavioral health center located in California upon the leases expiration in the second quarter of 2019. The center generated annual revenues of $3.1 million and pre-tax net loss of $0.3 million. The divestiture resulted in a loss of $0.1 million. During the third quarter of 2019, we sold the real property and divested the operations of one additional skilled nursing facility and one assisted/senior living facility in California for an aggregate sale price of $11.5 million. Loan repayments of $9.6 million were paid on the facilities at closing. See Note 7 Property and Equipment and Note 9 Long-Term Debt HUD Insured Loans. The facilities generated annual revenues of $10.4 million and pre-tax net income of less than $0.1 million. The divestiture resulted in an aggregate gain of $1.0 million. Other Divestitures During the first quarter of 2019, we divested the operations of nine facilities located in New Jersey and Ohio that were subject to the master lease with Welltower (the Welltower Master Lease). The nine divested facilities had aggregate annual revenues of $90.2 million and annual pre-tax net loss of $6.0 million. We recognized a loss on exit reserves of $3.3 million. We also completed the closure of one facility located in Ohio. The facility generated annual revenues of $7.7 million and pre-tax net loss of $1.6 million. The closure resulted in a loss of $0.2 million. During the second quarter of 2019, we divested the operations of three leased skilled nursing facilities. Two of the facilities were located in Connecticut and subject to the Welltower Master Lease, while the third was located in Ohio. The facilities generated annual revenues of $24.7 million and pre-tax net loss of $2.9 million. The divestitures resulted in a loss of $1.1 million. During the third quarter of 2019, we divested the operations of 11 leased skilled nursing facilities and completed the closure of a twelfth facility. Nine of the facilities were located in Ohio, marking an exit from the inpatient business in this state, while the remaining three were located in Massachusetts, Utah, and Idaho. Four of the facilities were subject to a master lease with Omega Healthcare Investors, Inc. (Omega), three of which were removed from the lease, resulting in an annual rent credit of approximately $1.9 million, with the fourth, the closed facility, remaining subject to the lease. The twelve facilities generated annual revenues of $75.6 million and pre-tax loss of $4.6 million. The divestitures resulted in a loss of $1.9 million. Acquisitions On June 1, 2019, we acquired the operations of one skilled nursing facility in New Mexico. The new facility has 80 licensed beds and generates approximate annual net revenue of $3.4 million. The facility is leased from Omega and is classified as an operating lease. The facilitys 2019 pre-tax net income is anticipated to be de minimis. Lease Transactions Welltower During the first quarter, we amended the Welltower Master Lease several times to reflect the lease termination of 24 facilities, including the 15 facilities sold and now leased from the Next Partnership. As a result of the lease termination on the 24 facilities, we received annual rent credits of approximately $23.4 million. A lease modification analysis was performed and the remaining 49 facilities subject to the master lease were reclassified from finance leases to operating leases. Finance lease ROU assets and obligations of $61.5 million and $130.2 million, respectively, were written off. On a net basis, operating lease ROU assets and obligations of $159.8 million and $111.3 million, respectively, were written down, resulting in a gain of $20.3 million. 44 Table of Contents During the second quarter of 2019, we amended the Welltower Master Lease to reflect the lease termination of two facilities and received annual rent credits of $0.6 million. Operating lease ROU assets and lease obligations of $5.1 million and $5.6 million, respectively, were written off, resulting in a gain of $0.5 million. During the third quarter of 2019, we amended the Welltower Master Lease to reflect the lease termination of four facilities and received annual rent credits of $1.9 million. Operating lease ROU assets and lease obligations of $102.0 million and $74.4 million, respectively, were written off, resulting in a gain of $27.6 million. Omega During the third quarter, we amended our master lease with Omega to reflect the lease termination of three facilities subject to the lease and received annual rent credits of $1.9 million. In conjunction with the lease termination, finance lease ROU assets and lease obligations of $10.1 million and $16.8 million, respectively, were written off. Additionally, for those facilities remaining under the master lease, we reassessed the likelihood of exercising our renewal options and concluded that it no longer met the reasonably certain threshold. Consequently, the remaining facilities subject to the master lease were reclassified from finance leases to operating leases and the corresponding ROU assets and liabilities were reduced by $164.6 million and $181.3 million, respectively. The lease termination and remeasurement resulted in an aggregate gain of $23.4 million. Second Spring During the third quarter, we amended our master lease with Second Spring to reflect the lease termination of 14 facilities subject to the lease and received annual rent credits of $28.4 million. In conjunction with the lease termination, finance lease ROU assets and lease obligations of $5.9 million and $8.8 million, respectively, were written off and operating lease ROU assets and lease obligations of $202.7 million and $205.4 million, respectively, were written off. Additionally, for those facilities remaining under the master lease, we reassessed the likelihood of exercising its renewal options and concluded that it no longer met the reasonably certain threshold. Consequently, the remaining facilities subject to the master lease were reclassified from finance leases to operating leases and the corresponding ROU assets and liabilities were increased by $54.4 million and $33.3 million, respectively. The lease termination and remeasurement resulted in an aggregate gain of $26.9 million. Other During the first quarter of 2019, we amended a master lease agreement for 19 skilled nursing facilities. The amendment extended the lease term by five years through October 31, 2026, removed our option to purchase certain facilities under the lease and adjusted certain financial covenants. We had previously determined that the renewal option period was not reasonably certain of exercise. Upon execution of the amendment, the operating lease ROU assets and obligations were remeasured, resulting in an increase of $77.2 million to both operating lease ROU assets and obligations. During the third quarter of 2019, we amended a master lease agreement to reflect the lease termination of six facilities subject to the lease. In conjunction with the lease termination, operating lease ROU assets of $4.9 million were written off, resulting in a loss of $4.9 million. Gains and losses associated with transactions, such as divestitures, acquisitions and lease transactions, are included in other income in the consolidated statements of operations. See Note 12 Other Income . Industry Trends and Recent Regulatory Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue Medicare Shared Savings Program As the industry continues to migrate from fee-for-service to pay-for-value, our unique capabilities in the area of physician services has given us a competitive advantage in advancing participation in value-based programs. In 2016, Genesis Healthcare ACO, LLC began participating in the Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) through our Genesis Physician Services (GPS) division. GPS providers make more than half a million visits annually to both short- and long-stay patients, helping them improve overall healthcare quality and reduce unnecessary hospital readmissions. GPS is the only captive SNFist company in the industry and the only post-acute sponsored accountable care organization (ACO) in the United States. 45 Table of Contents 2018 Performance Year During 2018, we managed approximately 6,400 Medicare fee for service beneficiaries under MSSP with annualized Medicare spend of more than $155.0 million. In 2018, the MSSP required us to save at least 3.2% of the total Medicare spend under management to share in up to 50% of the savings with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), while assuming no downside risk. In August 2019, we were informed by CMS that we reached the minimum savings rate set by CMS required for MSSP gain share. As a result, in the third quarter of 2019, we recognized MSSP income of approximately $1.7 million, net of expenses and provider distributions. 2019 Performance Year During the first six months of 2019, we continued to operate under our first MSSP agreement with CMS. Effective July 1, 2019 through December 31, 2024, we entered into our second MSSP agreement with CMS. Under this agreement, we can share in up to 75% of the savings with CMS, but we are also at risk for 40% of any increase in cost above the defined targets, which is further capped at 15% of our annualized benchmark costs under management. With nearly four years of participation under MSSP, we have gained valuable experience driving better outcomes and improved quality, managing episodic cost and developing in-house capabilities to predict program performance. Based upon the data available to us with respect to the 2019 performance year, we recognized $4.7 million of estimated MSSP income, net of expenses and provider distributions, for the period January 1, 2019 to September 30, 2019. The final reconciliation and settlement of the 2019 performance year is expected to be announced by CMS in the third quarter of 2020. We will continue to closely monitor and evaluate our estimated performance under the 2019 performance year and will adjust our estimated MSSP income accordingly. Five-Star Quality Rating System In April 2019, CMS implemented changes to the Five-Star Quality Rating System. These changes include revisions to the inspection process, adjustment of staffing rating thresholds, including increased emphasis on registered nurse staffing, implementation of new quality measures and changes in the scoring of various quality measures. CMS added two new quality measures: long-stay emergency department transfers and long-stay hospitalizations. CMS also established separate quality ratings for short-stay and long-stay residents and will now provide separate short-stay and long-stay ratings in addition to the overall quality measure rating. The impact of the most recent five star rating methodology is expected to be significant across the industry. CMS estimates the changes will cause 47% of all nursing centers to lose stars in their "Quality" ratings. In addition, 33% will lose stars in their "Staffing" ratings, and 36% will lose stars in their "Overall" ratings. Accordingly, despite no significant changes in our staffing levels or quality of our care, these changes to the staffing and quality thresholds will have a negative impact on our star rating in 2019. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Final Rules On July 30, 2019, CMS released a final rule for skilled nursing facilities prospective payment services (SNF PPS) for fiscal year 2020 Medicare Part A services. The final rule made revisions from the proposed rule for the Patient Driven Payment Model (PDPM) market basket increase and additional modifications to the skilled nursing facility Quality Reporting Program (QRP). PDPM will replace the existing case-mix classification methodology, the Resource Utilization Groups, Version IV (RUG-IV) at the beginning of fiscal year 2020. The final rule addresses specific issue areas, discussed below, related to the fiscal year 2020 requirements. Skilled Nursing Facility Medicare Part A Payment Rates The final rule provides for a net SNF PPS market basket update factor for skilled nursing facilities of 2.4% effective October 1, 2019. This is a full market basket update of 2.8% with no forecast error incurred and a 0.4% multifactor productivity adjustment. Patient-Driven Payment Model (PDPM) CMS has finalized the implementation of PDPM in a budget neutral manner and has updated the unadjusted federal per diems and related case mix groups (CMGs) and related Case Mix Indices (CMIs). To achieve budget neutrality, the unadjusted PDPM CMIs were multiplied by 1.46 so the total estimated payments under PDPM would be equal to the total actual payments under RUG-IV. 46 Table of Contents CMS has updated the PDPM payment year by refreshing fiscal year 2017 data with fiscal year 2018 data and applying a standardization multiplier and a budget neutrality multiplier for each of the PDPM rate components. Under CMIs, there are differences between RUG-IV and PDPM in terms of patient classifications and billing. CMS has reflected these differences by modifying the PDPM case mixed adjusted federal rates and associated indexes through the application of a CMI multiplier for each PDPM Group. PDPM utilizes a combination of six components to determine the amount of the per diem payment. Five of the components are case-mix adjusted, meaning they are intended to cover the utilization of skilled nursing facility resources that vary according to patient characteristics. These components are as follows: physical therapy (PT), occupational therapy (OT), speech-language pathology (SLP), non-therapy ancillary (NTA) services, and nursing. The sixth component is non-case-mix adjusted, meaning it is intended to cover those skilled nursing facility resources that do not vary by patient. The PT, OT, and NTA components are also subject to a variable adjustment factor that serves to adjust the per diem payment over the course of the patients stay. PT and OT services have variable per diem adjustments beginning on the 21st day of the Medicare stay and further adjusted every seven days thereafter. NTA services have variable per diem adjustments beginning on the 4th day of the Medicare stay. PDPM utilizes patient specific, data-driven characteristics to classify patients into payment groups within each of the six components, which are used as the basis for the payment amount. Group Therapy Under PDPM CMS has revised the definition of skilled nursing facility group therapy so that it aligns with the group therapy definition used in the inpatient rehabilitation facility setting effective October 1, 2019. The new definition defines group therapy in the skilled nursing facility Medicare Part A setting as a qualified rehabilitation therapist or therapy assistant treating two to six patients at the same time who are performing the same or similar activities. PDPM also revises the limits on group and concurrent therapy. RUG-IV included a 25% limit per discipline (PT, OT, SLP), for group therapy and did not impose a limit for concurrent therapy. PDPM includes a 25% limit per discipline (PT, OT, SLP), for both combined group and concurrent therapy. Skilled Nursing Facility - Quality Measures Reporting Program (SNF QRP): The Improving Medicare Post-Acute Care Transformation Act of 2014 (IMPACT Act) imposed new data reporting requirements for certain Post-Acute-Care (PAC) providers. The IMPACT Act requires that each skilled nursing facility submit their quality measures data. Beginning with fiscal year 2018, and each subsequent year, if a skilled nursing facility does not submit required quality data, their payment rates for the year are reduced by 2.0% for that fiscal year. Application of the 2.0% reduction may result in payment rates for a fiscal year being less than the preceding fiscal year. In addition, reporting-based reductions to the market basket increase factor will not be cumulative; they will only apply for the fiscal year involved. A skilled nursing facility will receive a notification letter from its Medicare administrator contractor if it was non-compliant with the Quality Reporting Program reporting requirements and is subject to the payment reduction. Current performance measures mandated for the SNF QRP for fiscal year 2019 were established in the final SNF PPS rules adopted on August 4, 2017 (FY 2018 SNF PPS Rules). The final rules summarize these requirements, finalize adoption of a new measure removal factor for previously adopted SNF QRP measures, review the quality measures currently adopted for the fiscal year 2020 SNF QRP and finalize the intention to specify new measures to be adopted no later than October 1, 2019 for the fiscal year 2020 SNF QRP. CMS has finalized the decision to adopt two Transfer of Health Information quality measures and standardized patient assessment data elements that skilled nursing facilities would be required to begin reporting with respect to admissions and discharges that occur on or after October 1, 2020. The SNF QRP applies to freestanding skilled nursing facilities, skilled nursing facilities affiliated with acute care facilities, and all non-critical access hospital swing-bed rural hospitals. Final fiscal year 2019 SNF PPS rules (FY 2019 SNF PPS Rules) specified that skilled nursing facilities that do not meet the SNF QRP requirements for a program year will receive a notice of non-compliance. Lastly, CMS has finalized the proposal to publicly display the quality measure, Drug Regimen Review Conducted With Follow-Up for Identified Issues- PAC SNF QRP. Skilled Nursing Facility Value-Based Purchasing (SNF-VBP) Program Under the SNF-VBP Program, CMS began to withhold 2.0% of Medicare payments starting October 1, 2018, to fund the 47 Table of Contents incentive payment pool and will redistribute 60% of the withheld payments back to skilled nursing facilities. All skilled nursing facilities will receive an incentive multiplier to apply to each of their RUG rates for the fiscal year that will provide an incentive payment, a full RUG payment, or a reduction. All skilled nursing facilities receive two scores, one for achievement and the other for improvement of their hospital readmission measure over the designated reporting period. All skilled nursing facilities are ranked from high to low based on the higher of the two scores. The highest ranked facilities will receive the highest payments, and the lowest ranked facilities will receive payments that are less than what they otherwise would have received without the SNF-VBP Program. Of the 2.0% withheld under the SNF-VBP Program, we expect to retain 1.3% based on performance for the period of October 1, 2018 to September 30, 2019. In the fiscal year 2020 final rule, most elements of the program remain the same. The final rule reiterates the decision to transition to fiscal year data from calendar year data for baseline and performance year calculations for FY 2020 SNF VBP Program, estimation of 2022 benchmarks and finalized the proposal to rename the future skilled nursing facility readmission measure without actually changing the measurement itself. Two changes that were proposed for the fiscal year 2020 program that have been finalized under the final rule include (1) the change of the phase one correction process to a 30-day deadline and (2) the suppression of data for facilities with fewer than 25 eligible stays for a baseline or performance period. CMS has finalized the following related to the VBP Score Reports: if a skilled nursing facility has fewer than 25 eligible stays during the baseline period for a program year, CMS would not display the baseline Risk Standard Readmission Rate (RSRR) or improvement score, though CMS would still display the performance period RSRR, achievement score and total performance score if the skilled nursing facility had sufficient data during the performance period; (2) if a skilled nursing facility has fewer than 25 eligible stays during the performance period for a program year and receives an assigned skilled nursing facility performance score as a result, CMS would report the assigned skilled nursing facility performance score and would not display the performance period RSRR, the achievement score or improvement score; and (3) if a skilled nursing facility has zero eligible cases during the performance period for a program year, CMS would not display any information for that skilled nursing facility. Decisions Regarding Skilled Nursing Facility Payment In addition to setting the payment rules for skilled nursing facility services using the SNF-VBP Program, CMS annually adjusts its payment rules for other acute and post-acute service providers including hospitals and home health agencies using a similar SNF-VBP Program. It is important to understand the Medicare program and that its reimbursement rates and rules are subject to frequent change. These include statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments (including retroactive adjustments), administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates at which Medicare reimburses us for our services. Budget pressures often lead the federal government to reduce or place limits on reimbursement rates under Medicare. Implementation of these and other types of measures has in the past, and could in the future, result in substantial reductions in our revenue and operating margins. Requirements of Participation On October 4, 2016, CMS published a final rule to make major changes to improve the care and safety of residents in long-term care facilities that participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The policies in this final rule are targeted at reducing unnecessary hospital readmissions and infections, improving the quality of care, and strengthening safety measures for residents in these facilities. Changes finalized in this rule include: Strengthening the rights of long-term care facility residents. Ensuring that long-term care facility staff members are properly trained on caring for residents with dementia and in preventing elder abuse. Ensuring that long-term care facilities take into consideration the health of residents when making decisions on the kinds and levels of staffing a facility needs to properly take care of its residents. Ensuring that staff members have the right skill sets and competencies to provide person-centered care to residents. The care plans developed for residents will take into consideration their goals of care and preferences. Improving care planning, including discharge planning for all residents with involvement of the facilitys interdisciplinary team and consideration of the caregivers capacity, giving residents information they need for follow-up after discharge, and ensuring that instructions are transmitted to any receiving facilities or services. 48 Table of Contents Updating the long-term care facilitys infection prevention and control program, including requiring an infection prevention and control officer and an antibiotic stewardship program that includes antibiotic use protocols and a system to monitor antibiotic use. The regulations became effective on November 28, 2016. CMS is implementing the regulations using a phased approach. The phases are as follows: Phase 1: The regulations included in Phase 1 were implemented by November 28, 2016. Phase 2: The regulations included in Phase 2 were implemented by November 28, 2017. Phase 3: The regulations included in Phase 3 must be implemented by November 28, 2019. Some regulatory sections are divided among more than one phase, and some of the more extensive new requirements have been placed in later phases to allow facilities time to successfully prepare to achieve compliance. The total costs associated with implementing the new regulations have been absorbed into our general operating costs. Failure to comply with the new regulations could result in exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have substantially complied with the regulations imposed through the Phase 1 and Phase 2 implementation. Proposed Rule On July 16, 2019, CMS announced a proposed rule to remove requirements of participation identified as unnecessary, obsolete, or excessively burdensome on long-term care facilities. The rule is part of the agencys five-part approach to ensuring a high-quality long-term care facility system that focuses on strengthening requirements for such facilities, working with states to enforce statutory and regulatory requirements, increasing transparency of facility performance, and promoting improved health outcomes for facility residents. This proposed rule would increase facilities ability to devote their resources to improving resident care. This would be achieved by the elimination or reduction in the hours and resources that clinicians and providers spend on obsolete and redundant requirements that could impede or divert resources away from the provision of high-quality resident care. Many of the proposed provisions would simplify and/or streamline the Medicare health and safety standards long-term care facilities must meet in order to serve their residents. Importantly, in identifying opportunities for reducing burden, CMS would maintain resident health and safety standards. In order to give facilities enough time to respond to these proposed changes, CMS also proposes to delay the implementation of certain Phase 3 quality assurance and performance improvement program and compliance and ethics related requirements that are directly impacted by the proposed changes in the regulation to one year following the effective date of this proposed rule, if finalized, to avoid confusion and promote transparency. Key Performance and Valuation Measures In order to assess our financial performance between periods, we evaluate certain key performance and valuation measures for each of our operating segments separately for the periods presented. Results and statistics may not be comparable period-over-period due to the impact of acquisitions and dispositions, or the impact of new and lost therapy contracts. The following is a glossary of terms for some of our key performance and valuation measures and non-GAAP measures: Actual Patient Days is defined as the number of residents occupying a bed (or units in the case of an assisted/senior living center) for one qualifying day in that period. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA adjusted for newly acquired or constructed businesses with start-up losses and other adjustments to provide a supplemental performance measure. See Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with, non-GAAP measures. 49 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDAR is defined as EBITDAR adjusted for newly acquired or constructed businesses with start-up losses and other adjustments to provide a supplemental valuation measure. See Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with, non-GAAP measures. Available Patient Days is defined as the number of available beds (or units in the case of an assisted/senior living center) multiplied by the number of days in that period. Average Daily Census or ADC is the number of residents occupying a bed (or units in the case of an assisted/senior living center) over a period of time, divided by the number of calendar days in that period. EBITDA is defined as EBITDAR less lease expense. See Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with non-GAAP measures. EBITDAR is defined as net income or loss attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. before net income or loss of non-controlling interests, net income or loss from discontinued operations, depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense and lease expense. See Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with non-GAAP measures. Insurance refers collectively to commercial insurance and managed care payor sources, including Medicare Advantage beneficiaries, but does not include managed care payors serving Medicaid residents, which are included in the Medicaid category. Occupancy Percentage is measured as the percentage of Actual Patient Days relative to the Available Patient Days. Skilled Mix refers collectively to Medicare and Insurance payor sources. Therapist Efficiency is computed by dividing billable labor minutes related to patient care by total labor minutes for the period. Key performance and valuation measures for our businesses are set forth below, followed by a comparison and analysis of our financial results: Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financial Results (in thousands) Financial Performance Measures: Net revenues (GAAP) $ 1,123,705 $ 1,217,271 $ 3,430,397 $ 3,790,703 Net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. (GAAP) 46,097 (58,128) 26,015 (166,278) EBITDA (Non-GAAP) 130,360 75,612 267,138 251,533 Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP) 34,683 113,520 150,552 362,281 Valuation Measure: Adjusted EBITDAR (Non-GAAP) $ 134,701 $ 439,217 50 Table of Contents INPATIENT SEGMENT: Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Occupancy Statistics - Inpatient Available licensed beds in service at end of period 43,769 51,634 43,769 51,634 Available operating beds in service at end of period 41,912 49,553 41,912 49,553 Available patient days based on licensed beds 4,026,748 4,750,328 11,939,391 14,096,082 Available patient days based on operating beds 3,856,927 4,555,745 11,437,918 13,522,878 Actual patient days 3,367,241 3,838,454 10,011,691 11,424,759 Occupancy percentage - licensed beds 83.6 % 80.8 % 83.9 % 81.0 % Occupancy percentage - operating beds 87.3 % 84.3 % 87.5 % 84.5 % Skilled mix 17.6 % 17.9 % 18.4 % 19.1 % Average daily census 36,600 41,722 36,673 41,849 Revenue per patient day (skilled nursing facilities) Medicare Part A $ 523 $ 522 $ 525 $ 525 Insurance 465 456 460 458 Private and other 368 337 367 336 Medicaid 233 223 232 223 Medicaid (net of provider taxes) 213 204 213 204 Weighted average (net of provider taxes) $ 277 $ 270 $ 279 $ 274 Patient days by payor (skilled nursing facilities) Medicare 319,656 378,968 999,535 1,203,234 Insurance 239,060 273,200 735,736 854,666 Total skilled mix days 558,716 652,168 1,735,271 2,057,900 Private and other 188,157 222,890 545,584 670,908 Medicaid 2,425,249 2,758,817 7,150,761 8,098,284 Total Days 3,172,122 3,633,875 9,431,616 10,827,092 Patient days as a percentage of total patient days (skilled nursing facilities) Medicare 10.1 % 10.4 % 10.6 % 11.1 % Insurance 7.5 % 7.5 % 7.8 % 8.0 % Skilled mix 17.6 % 17.9 % 18.4 % 19.1 % Private and other 5.9 % 6.1 % 5.8 % 6.2 % Medicaid 76.5 % 76.0 % 75.8 % 74.7 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Facilities at end of period Skilled nursing facilities Leased 280 337 280 337 Owned 30 44 30 44 Joint Venture 38 5 38 5 Managed * 12 33 12 33 Total skilled nursing facilities 360 419 360 419 Total licensed beds 43,712 51,543 43,712 51,543 Assisted/Senior living facilities: Leased 21 19 21 19 Owned 1 4 1 4 Joint Venture 1 1 1 1 Managed 1 2 1 2 Total assisted/senior living facilities 24 26 24 26 Total licensed beds 1,941 2,209 1,941 2,209 Total facilities 384 445 384 445 Total Jointly Owned and Managed (Unconsolidated) 13 15 13 15 REHABILITATION THERAPY SEGMENT**: Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Revenue mix %: Company-operated 35.3 % 37.2 % 35.9 % 37.1 % Non-affiliated 64.7 % 62.8 % 64.1 % 62.9 % Sites of service (at end of period) 1,185 1,327 1,185 1,327 Revenue per site $ 149,357 $ 152,273 $ 459,411 $ 476,010 Therapist efficiency % 70.5 % 67.5 % 71.6 % 67.8 % * 2018 includes 20 facilities located in Texas for which the real estate was owned by Genesis ** Excludes respiratory therapy services. 51 Table of Contents Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure The following discussion includes references to Adjusted EBITDAR, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures (collectively, Non-GAAP Financial Measures). A Non-GAAP Financial Measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position and cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of operations, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the registrant; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable financial measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. We have provided reconciliations of the Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. We believe the presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because these financial measures are useful for trending, analyzing and benchmarking the performance and value of our business. By excluding certain expenses and other items that may not be indicative of our core business operating results, these Non-GAAP Financial Measures: allow investors to evaluate our performance from managements perspective, resulting in greater transparency with respect to supplemental information used by us in our financial and operational decision making; facilitate comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which management monitors financial performance; facilitate comparisons with the performance of others in the post-acute industry; provide better transparency as to the measures used by management and others who follow our industry to estimate the value of our company; and allow investors to view our financial performance and condition in the same manner as our significant landlords and lenders require us to report financial information to them in connection with determining our compliance with financial covenants. We use two Non-GAAP Financial Measures primarily (EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA) as performance measures and believe that the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to them is net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. We use one Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted EBITDAR) as a valuation measure. We use Non-GAAP Financial Measures to assess the value of our business and the performance of our operating businesses, as well as the employees responsible for operating such businesses. Non-GAAP Financial Measures are useful in this regard because they do not include such costs as interest expense, income taxes and depreciation and amortization expense which may vary from business unit to business unit depending upon such factors as the method used to finance the original purchase of the business unit or the tax law in the state in which a business unit operates. By excluding such factors when measuring financial performance, many of which are outside of the control of the employees responsible for operating our business units, we are better able to evaluate value and the operating performance of the business unit and the employees responsible for business unit performance. Consequently, we use these Non-GAAP Financial Measures to determine the extent to which our employees have met performance goals, and therefore the extent to which they may or may not be eligible for incentive compensation awards. We also use Non-GAAP Financial Measures in our annual budget process. We believe these Non-GAAP Financial Measures facilitate internal comparisons to historical operating performance of prior periods and external comparisons to competitors historical operating performance. The presentation of these Non-GAAP Financial Measures is consistent with our past practice and we believe these measures further enable investors and analysts to compare current non-GAAP measures with non-GAAP measures presented in prior periods. Although we use Non-GAAP Financial Measures as financial measures to assess value and the performance of our business, the use of these Non-GAAP Financial Measures is limited because they do not consider certain material costs necessary to operate the business. These costs include our lease expense (only in the case of Adjusted EBITDAR), the cost to service debt, the depreciation and amortization associated with our long-lived assets, losses on early extinguishment of debt, transaction costs, long-lived asset 52 Table of Contents impairment charges, federal and state income tax expenses, the operating results of our discontinued businesses and the income or loss attributable to noncontrolling interests. Because Non-GAAP Financial Measures do not consider these important elements of our cost structure, a user of our financial information who relies on Non-GAAP Financial Measures as the only measures of our performance could draw an incomplete or misleading conclusion regarding our financial performance. Consequently, a user of our financial information should consider net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. as an important measure of our financial performance because it provides the most complete measure of our performance. Other companies may define Non-GAAP Financial Measures differently and, as a result, our Non-GAAP Financial Measures may not be directly comparable to those of other companies. Non-GAAP Financial Measures do not represent net income (loss), as defined by GAAP. Non-GAAP Financial Measures should be considered in addition to, not a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP Financial Measures. We use the following Non-GAAP Financial Measures that we believe are useful to investors as key valuation and operating performance measures: EBITDA We believe EBITDA is useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because it helps investors evaluate and compare the results of our operations from period to period by removing the impact of our capital structure (interest expense) and our asset base (depreciation and amortization expense) from our operating results. In addition, financial covenants in our debt agreements use EBITDA as a measure of compliance. Adjustments to EBITDA We adjust EBITDA when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance, in the case of Adjusted EBITDA. We believe that the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA, when combined with GAAP net loss attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc., and EBITDA, is beneficial to an investors complete understanding of our operating performance. In addition, such adjustments are substantially similar to the adjustments to EBITDA provided for in the financial covenant calculations contained in our lease and debt agreements. We adjust EBITDA for the following items: Loss on early extinguishment of debt. We recognize gains or losses on the early extinguishment of debt when we refinance our debt prior to its original term, requiring us to write-off any unamortized deferred financing fees. We exclude the effect of losses or gains recorded on the early extinguishment of debt because we believe these gains and losses do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. Other income. We primarily use this income statement caption to capture gains and losses on the sale or disposition of assets. We exclude the effect of such gains and losses because we believe they do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. Transaction costs. In connection with our restructuring, acquisition and disposition transactions, we incur costs consisting of investment banking, legal, transaction-based compensation and other professional service costs. We exclude restructuring, acquisition and disposition related transaction costs expensed during the period because we believe these costs do not reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. Long-lived asset impairments. We exclude non-cash long-lived asset impairment charges because we believe including them does not reflect the ongoing performance of our operating businesses. Additionally, such impairment charges represent accelerated depreciation expense, and depreciation expense is also excluded from EBITDA. Goodwill and identifiable intangible asset impairments. We exclude non-cash goodwill and identifiable intangible asset impairment charges because we believe that including them does not reflect the ongoing operating performance of our operating businesses. 53 Table of Contents Severance and restructuring. We exclude severance costs from planned reduction in force initiatives associated with restructuring activities intended to adjust our cost structure in response to changes in the business environment. We believe these costs do not reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. We do not exclude severance costs that are not associated with such restructuring activities. Loss of newly acquired, constructed or divested businesses. The acquisition and construction of new businesses is an element of our growth strategy. Many of the businesses we acquire have a history of operating losses and continue to generate operating losses in the months that follow our acquisition. Newly constructed or developed businesses also generate losses while in their start-up phase. We view these losses as both temporary and an expected component of our long-term investment in the new venture. We adjust these losses when computing Adjusted EBITDA in order to better analyze the performance of our mature ongoing business. The activities of such businesses are adjusted when computing Adjusted EBITDA until such time as a new business generates positive Adjusted EBITDA. The divestiture of underperforming or non-strategic facilities is also an element of our business strategy. We eliminate the results of divested facilities beginning in the quarter in which they become divested. We view the income or losses associated with the wind-down of such divested facilities as not indicative of the performance of our ongoing operating business. Stock-based compensation. We exclude stock-based compensation expense because it does not result in an outlay of cash and such non-cash expenses do not reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. Regulatory defense and related costs. We exclude the costs of investigating and defending the inherited legal matters associated with prior transactions. We believe these costs are non-recurring in nature as they will no longer be recognized following the final settlement of these matters. Also, we do not believe the excluded costs reflect underlying performance of our operating businesses. Other non-recurring costs. In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we excluded an insurance recovery and costs related to the hurricane events of fiscal year 2017. In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we excluded $8.5 million of costs attributable to the write down of receivables in our non-core physician services business and the impairment of unrealized incentives associated with a government program rewarding the meaningful use of technology in delivery of healthcare. This incentive was estimated to have been earned and recognized between 2015 and 2016 within our physician services line of business. We do not believe the excluded costs reflect the performance of our ongoing operating business. Adjusted EBITDAR We use Adjusted EBITDAR as one measure in determining the value of our business and the value of prospective acquisitions or divestitures. Adjusted EBITDAR is also a commonly used measure to estimate the enterprise value of businesses in the healthcare and other industries. In addition, financial covenants in our lease agreements use Adjusted EBITDAR as a measure of compliance. The adjustments made and previously described in the computation of Adjusted EBITDA are also made when computing Adjusted EBITDAR. 54 Table of Contents See the reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. to Non-GAAP financial information included herein (in thousands): Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. $ 46,097 $ (58,128) $ 26,015 $ (166,278) Adjustments to compute EBITDA: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 12,801 (33,773) (1,182) (97,153) Depreciation and amortization expense 34,932 53,038 101,395 168,036 Interest expense 37,099 115,695 141,590 348,687 Income tax expense (benefit) (569) (1,220) (680) (1,759) EBITDA $ 130,360 $ 75,612 267,138 251,533 Adjustments to compute Adjusted EBITDA: Loss on early extinguishment of debt 2,460 2,436 9,785 Other income (131,811) (20,207) (172,141) (42,360) Transaction costs 12,941 11,361 23,025 26,567 Long-lived asset impairments 16,037 32,390 16,937 88,008 Goodwill and identifiable intangible asset impairments 929 2,061 Severance and restructuring 2,751 1,023 4,870 7,357 Loss of newly acquired, constructed, or divested businesses 67 1,385 2,811 3,560 Stock-based compensation 1,878 2,176 5,713 6,732 Regulatory defense and related costs 463 603 Other non-recurring costs 8,388 (237) 8,435 Adjusted EBITDA $ 34,683 $ 113,520 $ 150,552 $ 362,281 Lease Expense 100,018 32,366 288,665 97,548 Adjusted EBITDAR $ 134,701 $ 439,217 Total cash lease payments made pursuant to operating leases, finance leases and financing obligations $ 100,500 $ 105,980 $ 314,516 $ 323,658 Results of Operations Same-store Presentation We continue to execute on a strategic plan which includes expansion in core markets and operating segments which we believe will enhance the value of our business in the ever-changing landscape of national healthcare. We are also focused on right-sizing our operations to fit that new environment and to divest underperforming and non-strategic assets, many of which were consolidated as part of larger acquisitions in recent years to achieve the net overall growth strategy. We define our same-store inpatient operations as those skilled nursing and assisted living centers which have been operated by us, in a steady-state, for each comparable period in this Results of Operations discussion. We exclude from that definition those skilled nursing and assisted living facilities recently acquired that were not operated by us for the entire period, as well as those that were divested prior to or during the most recent period presented. In cases where we are developing new skilled nursing or assisted living centers, those operations are excluded from our same-store inpatient operations until the revenue driven by operating patient census is stable in the comparable periods. Since the nature of our rehabilitation therapy services operations experiences high volume of both new and terminated contracts in an annual cycle, and the scale and significance of those contracts can be very different to both the revenue and operating expenses of that business, a same-store presentation based solely on the contract or gym count does not provide an accurate depiction of the business. Accordingly, we do not reference same-store figures in this MD&A with regard to that business. The volume of services delivered in our other services businesses can also be affected by strategic transactional activity. To the extent there are businesses to be excluded to achieve same-store comparability those will be noted in the context of the Results of Operations discussion. 55 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 A summary of our unaudited results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018 follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three months ended September 30, 2019 2018 Increase / (Decrease) Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Revenues: Inpatient services: Skilled nursing facilities $ 941,722 83.8 % $ 1,029,453 84.6 % $ (87,731) (8.5) % Assisted/Senior living facilities 23,057 2.1 % 23,974 2.0 % (917) (3.8) % Administration of third party facilities 1,980 0.2 % 2,025 0.2 % (45) (2.2) % Elimination of administrative services (748) (0.1) % (784) (0.1) % 36 (4.6) % Inpatient services, net 966,011 86.0 % 1,054,668 86.7 % (88,657) (8.4) % Rehabilitation therapy services: Total therapy services 183,898 16.4 % 214,421 17.6 % (30,523) (14.2) % Elimination of intersegment rehabilitation therapy services (67,598) (6.0) % (82,257) (6.8) % 14,659 (17.8) % Third party rehabilitation therapy services, net 116,300 10.4 % 132,164 10.8 % (15,864) (12.0) % Other services: Total other services 55,532 4.9 % 38,526 3.2 % 17,006 44.1 % Elimination of intersegment other services (14,138) (1.3) % (8,087) (0.7) % (6,051) 74.8 % Third party other services, net 41,394 3.6 % 30,439 2.5 % 10,955 36.0 % Net revenues $ 1,123,705 100.0 % $ 1,217,271 100.0 % $ (93,566) (7.7) % Three months ended September 30, 2019 2018 Increase / (Decrease) Margin Margin Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage EBITDA: Inpatient services $ 151,923 15.7 % $ 101,865 9.7 % $ 50,058 49.1 % Rehabilitation therapy services 19,006 10.3 % 26,432 12.3 % (7,426) (28.1) % Other services 8,518 15.3 % (7,916) (20.5) % 16,434 (207.6) % Corporate and eliminations (49,087) % (44,769) % (4,318) 9.6 % EBITDA $ 130,360 11.6 % $ 75,612 6.2 % $ 54,748 72.4 % 56 Table of Contents A summary of our unaudited condensed consolidating statement of operations follows (in thousands): Three months ended September 30, 2019 Rehabilitation Inpatient Therapy Other Services Services Services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated Net revenues $ 966,759 $ 183,898 $ 55,515 $ 17 $ (82,484) $ 1,123,705 Salaries, wages and benefits 437,508 152,793 30,192 620,493 Other operating expenses 394,115 11,779 16,421 (82,874) 339,441 General and administrative costs 35,930 35,930 Lease expense 98,987 320 384 327 100,018 Depreciation and amortization expense 29,263 2,934 176 2,559 34,932 Interest expense 12,363 14 9 24,713 37,099 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 2,460 2,460 Investment income (2,071) (2,071) Other income (131,811) (131,811) Transaction costs 12,941 12,941 Long-lived asset impairments 16,037 16,037 Equity in net loss (income) of unconsolidated affiliates 2,932 (3,025) (93) Income (loss) before income tax benefit 110,297 16,058 8,333 (79,774) 3,415 58,329 Income tax benefit (569) (569) Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 110,297 $ 16,058 $ 8,333 $ (79,205) $ 3,415 $ 58,898 Three months ended September 30, 2018 Rehabilitation Inpatient Therapy Other Services Services Services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated Net revenues $ 1,055,452 $ 214,421 $ 38,463 $ 63 $ (91,128) $ 1,217,271 Salaries, wages and benefits 480,345 175,098 25,161 680,604 Other operating expenses 428,398 12,891 20,902 (91,127) 371,064 General and administrative costs 35,482 35,482 Lease expense 31,732 316 318 32,366 Depreciation and amortization expense 46,472 3,147 172 3,247 53,038 Interest expense 91,106 14 9 24,566 115,695 Investment income (2,178) (2,178) Other income (20,207) (20,207) Transaction costs 11,361 11,361 Long-lived asset impairments 32,390 32,390 Goodwill and identifiable intangible asset impairments 929 929 Equity in net (income) loss of unconsolidated affiliates (523) 371 (152) (Loss) income before income tax benefit (35,713) 23,271 (8,097) (72,210) (372) (93,121) Income tax benefit (1,220) (1,220) (Loss) income from continuing operations $ (35,713) $ 23,271 $ (8,097) $ (70,990) $ (372) $ (91,901) Net Revenues Net revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $93.6 million, or 7.7%, as compared with the three months ended September 30, 2018. Inpatient Services Revenue decreased $88.7 million, or 8.4%, in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. On a same-store basis, inpatient services revenue increased $12.6 million, or 1.4%, excluding 77 divested underperforming facilities and the acquisition or development of 12 additional facilities. This same-store increase is due to increasing census volume and payor rates, primarily in our Medicaid population, partially offset by continued decline in the skilled mix of our inpatient facilities. For the past several years, census and skilled mix trends have been affected by healthcare reforms resulting in lower lengths of stay among our skilled patient population and lower admissions caused by initiatives among acute care providers, managed care payors and conveners to divert certain skilled nursing referrals to home health or other community-based care settings. While overall census is recovering as compared with the preceding year, the skilled mix continued to deteriorate. We believe population demographics will present opportunities in the near future to recapture census, and to some extent skilled mix, where it was lost through reform measures. As recently as the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, we saw the decline of overall occupancy rates moderate and approximate those of the comparable period in 2017, and in the three months ended September 30, 2019, we saw overall same-store occupancy rates exceed that of the same period in 2018 by 90 basis points. However, at the same time, same-store skilled mix in the three months ended September 30, 2019 lagged the same period in 2018 by 80 basis points. 57 Table of Contents For an expanded discussion regarding the factors influencing our census decline, see Item 1, Business Recent Legislative, Regulatory and other Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, as well as Key Performance and Valuation Measures in this MD&A for quantification of the census trends and revenue per patient day. Rehabilitation Therapy Services Revenue decreased $15.9 million, or 12.0% comparing the three months ended September 30, 2019 with the same period in 2018. Of that decrease, $16.1 million is due to lost contract business, offset by $4.9 million attributed to new contracts. The remaining decrease of $4.7 million is principally due to reduced volume of services provided and lower rates to existing customers. PDPM has not yet had an impact on rehabilitation therapy revenues, but beginning October 1, 2019, the pricing in our contracts with customers of our rehabilitation services will reflect the change in payment model. Additionally, as a result of the decline in therapist treatment hours, utilizing more group and concurrent therapy sessions, we anticipate that rehabilitation therapy revenue will decline by 6.5% as compared with periods prior to the implementation of PDPM. Other Services Revenue increased $11.0 million, or 36.0% in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Our other services revenue is comprised mainly of our physician services and staffing services businesses, in addition to our ACO. In the three months ended September 30, 2019, the ACO recognized revenue under the MSSP, with $2.3 million achievement pertaining to the 2018 service savings, $4.2 million estimated achievement for the first half of 2019 and $2.1 million estimated achievement for savings earned during the three months ended September 30, 2019. There was no MSSP revenue recognized in the comparable three month period in 2018. Revenue in our physician services business increased $2.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. The remaining decrease of revenue of $0.3 million is in our staffing services business, which has shifted its recent focus to developing its services to our affiliated nursing facilities and therapy gyms, with its external revenue flat period over period. Further penetration of the internal staffing needs is a strategic goal for our staffing business, and provides a benefit to our inpatient and rehabilitation therapy segments as record low unemployment nationally makes recruiting difficult. EBITDA EBITDA for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased by $54.7 million, or 72.4%, as compared with the three months ended September 30, 2018. Excluding the impact of loss on early extinguishment of debt, other income, transaction costs, long-lived asset impairments, and goodwill and identifiable intangible asset impairments, EBITDA decreased $70.1 million, or 70.0% when compared with the same period in 2018. The contributing factors for this net decrease are described in our discussion below of segment results and corporate overhead. Inpatient Services EBITDA increased by $50.1 million, or 49.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Excluding the impact of other income, long-lived asset impairments and goodwill and identifiable intangible asset impairments, EBITDA as adjusted decreased $78.8 million, or 68.6% when compared with the same period in 2018. On a same-store basis, the inpatient EBITDA as adjusted decreased $68.4 million. Of that same-store decline, lease expense increased $61.5 million, principally resulting from the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 842, Leases (Topic 842) effective January 1, 2019. The impact to our financial position and statements of operation from the adoption of this accounting standard is more fully described in Note 1 General Information - Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements. See also Note 8 Leases . Our self-insurance programs, including general and professional liability, workers compensation and health insurance benefits, resulted in an increase of $3.4 million EBITDA as adjusted in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. While our self-insurance programs are performing as anticipated with reduced volumes related to the implementation of our portfolio optimization strategies, we are also seeing reduced pressures particularly in our general and professional liability claims experience. The reduction in the provision for general and professional liability for the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018 is the result of favorable prior year claim development and lower current year loss exposures. The favorable development is due to the combination of the ongoing impact of tort reform, claim settlements, and other risk management initiatives. Offsetting some of the positive trends in professional liability experience, self-insured health benefits on the same-store population saw an increase over the prior year quarter due to some singularly large claims that presented early in 2019. Same-store staffing costs, net of nursing agency and other purchased services, increased $15.8 million. Nursing wage inflation increased 5.9%, while non-nursing wage inflation increased 1.1% in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018, respectively. The remaining $5.5 million increase in same-store EBITDA, as adjusted, of the segment is attributed to ongoing expense management and increased census volume in our skilled nursing facilities, partially offset by the continued pressures on skilled mix of our inpatient facilities described above under Net Revenues. 58 Table of Contents Rehabilitation Therapy Services EBITDA decreased by $7.4 million, or 28.1%, for the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Of this decrease, $4.4 million is principally attributed to reduced revenue volume and pricing from existing customers, and partially offset with overhead cost reductions and reductions of start-up losses in our operations in China. Higher costs of labor was largely offset with therapist efficiency which improved to 70.5% in the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared with 67.5% in the comparable period in the prior year. In addition, EBITDA decreased by $3.0 million due to lost therapy contracts exceeding new contracts in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. PDPM has not yet had a direct impact on the EBITDA of our rehabilitation therapy service business. Once it is implemented on October 1, 2019, and our service delivery model is completely transitioned, we anticipate the impact will be relatively neutral to our operating results with reduced labor costs offsetting the lost revenue previously described. Other Services EBITDA increased $16.4 million, or 207.6%, for the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Of this amount, the ACO contributed $6.0 million, most of which was due to the low cost structure and no MSSP revenue recognition in that business in the comparable 2018 period. The EBITDA of our staffing services business increased $0.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018, principally due to growth in its services with affiliated customers. The remaining increase of $9.8 million pertains to our physician services business. The three months ended September 30, 2018 included charges of $8.5 million to write down accounts receivable to its realizable fair value. Those charges did not recur in 2019, and in fact collections under a new third party contractor are continuing to trend favorably. The remaining increase in our physician services business was principally driven by increased physician and nurse practitioner encounters, coupled with improved reimbursement rates, partially offset by increased administrative costs of practice management. Corporate and Eliminations EBITDA decreased $4.3 million, or 9.6%, for the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. EBITDA of our corporate function includes gain on early extinguishment of debt and losses associated with transactions that, in our chief operating decision makers view, are outside of the scope of our reportable segments. These other transactions, which are separately captioned in our consolidated statements of operations and described more fully above in our Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure, contributed $4.1 million of the net decrease in EBITDA. Corporate overhead costs increased $0.4 million, or 1.3%, in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. The remaining increase in EBITDA of $0.2 million is primarily the result of an increase in investment earnings from our unconsolidated affiliates accounted for on the equity method and other investments. Other income Consistent with our strategy to divest assets in non-strategic markets, we incur losses and generate gains resulting from the sale, transition or closure of underperforming operations and assets. Other income for the three month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 principally represents non-cash gains on leases exited or modified and gains on the sale of owned assets in the period. See also Note 12 Other Income . Transaction costs In the normal course of business, we evaluate strategic acquisition, disposition and business development opportunities. The costs to pursue these opportunities, when incurred, vary from period to period depending on the nature of the transaction pursued and if those transactions are ever completed. Transaction costs incurred for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $12.9 million and $11.4 million, respectively. Long-lived asset impairments In the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recognized impairments of property and equipment, and ROU assets of $16.0 million and $32.4 million, respectively. For more information about the conditions of the business which contributed to these impairments, see Industry Trends and Recent Regulatory Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue and Financial Condition and Liquidity Considerations in this MD&A, as well as Note 13 Asset Impairment Charges - Long-Lived Assets with a Definite Useful Life. Other Expense The following discussion applies to the consolidated expense categories between consolidated EBITDA and net income (loss) from continuing operations of all reportable segments, corporate and eliminations in our consolidating statement of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Depreciation and amortization Each of our reportable segments and corporate overhead have depreciating property, plant and equipment, including amortization of finance lease ROU assets. Our rehabilitation therapy services and other services have 59 Table of Contents identifiable intangible assets which amortize over the estimated life of those identifiable assets. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $18.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. On a same-store basis, depreciation and amortization decreased $8.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Of this decrease, approximately $4.8 million resulted from the adoption of Topic 842, which was effective on January 1, 2019 for us. The impact to our financial position and statements of operation from the adoption of this accounting standard is more fully described in Note 1 General Information - Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements and Note 8 Leases . In the inpatient services segment, $3.6 million of the decrease is principally due to prior year acceleration related to multiple lease transactions. The remaining $0.3 million of decrease is principally due to asset impairments and assets reaching the end of their depreciable term. Interest expense Interest expense includes the cash interest and non-cash adjustments required to account for our debt instruments, as well as the expense associated with leases accounted for as finance leases or financing obligations. Interest expense decreased $78.6 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period 2018. On a same-store basis, interest expense is down $74.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Of this decrease, approximately $78.3 million resulted from the adoption of Topic 842, which was effective on January 1, 2019 for us. The impact to our financial position and statements of operation from the adoption of this accounting standard is more fully described in Note 1 General Information - Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements and Note 8 Leases . The remaining increase of $4.3 million is principally the result of consolidating debt and associated interest expense of a real-estate partnership in the first quarter of 2019, which was determined to be a VIE. See Note 1 General Information Basis of Presentation. Income tax benefit For three months ended September 30, 2019, we recorded income tax benefit of $0.6 million from continuing operations representing an effective tax rate of (1.0)% compared to an income tax benefit of $1.2 million from continuing operations, representing an effective tax rate of 1.3% for the same period in 2018. There is a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, excluding our deferred tax asset on our Bermuda captive insurance companys discounted unpaid loss reserve. Previously, in assessing the requirement for, and amount of, a valuation allowance in accordance with the standard, we determined it was more likely than not we would not realize our deferred tax assets and established a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets. As of September 30, 2019, we have determined that the valuation allowance is still necessary. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. The following discussion applies to categories between net income (loss) from continuing operations and net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. in our consolidated statements of operations for three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests On February 2, 2015, FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC (FC-GEN) combined with Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. and the combined results were consolidated with approximately 42.0% direct noncontrolling economic interest shown as noncontrolling interest in the financial statements of the combined entity. The direct noncontrolling economic interest is in the form of Class C common stock of FC-GEN that are exchangeable on a 1-to-1 basis to our public shares. The direct noncontrolling economic interest will continue to decrease as Class C common stock of FC-GEN are exchanged for public shares. Since the combination, there have been conversions of 7.9 million Class C common stock, leaving a remaining direct noncontrolling economic interest of approximately 34.1%. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, income (loss) of $19.9 million and $(34.3) million, respectively, has been attributed to the Class C common stock. In addition to the noncontrolling interests attributable to the Class C common stock holders, our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all entities controlled by us through our ownership of a majority voting interest and the accounts of any VIEs where we are subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the VIE's activities, or entitled to receive a majority of the entity's residual returns, or both. We adjust net income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. to exclude the net income attributable to the third party ownership interests of the VIEs. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, (loss) income of $(7.1) million and $0.5 million, respectively, has been attributed to these unaffiliated third parties. 60 Table of Contents Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 A summary of our unaudited results of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018 follows (in thousands, except percentages): Nine months ended September 30, 2019 2018 Increase / (Decrease) Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Revenues: Inpatient services: Skilled nursing facilities $ 2,888,659 84.1 % $ 3,190,065 84.2 % $ (301,406) (9.4) % Assisted/Senior living facilities 70,408 2.1 % 71,220 1.9 % (812) (1.1) % Administration of third party facilities 6,281 0.2 % 6,577 0.2 % (296) (4.5) % Elimination of administrative services (2,347) (0.1) % (2,254) (0.1) % (93) 4.1 % Inpatient services, net 2,963,001 86.3 % 3,265,608 86.2 % (302,607) (9.3) % Rehabilitation therapy services: Total therapy services 571,875 16.7 % 685,672 18.1 % (113,797) (16.6) % Elimination of intersegment rehabilitation therapy services (213,800) (6.2) % (263,890) (7.0) % 50,090 (19.0) % Third party rehabilitation therapy services, net 358,075 10.5 % 421,782 11.1 % (63,707) (15.1) % Other services: Total other services 143,139 4.2 % 124,300 3.3 % 18,839 15.2 % Elimination of intersegment other services (33,818) (1.0) % (20,987) (0.6) % (12,831) 61.1 % Third party other services, net 109,321 3.2 % 103,313 2.7 % 6,008 5.8 % Net revenues $ 3,430,397 100.0 % $ 3,790,703 100.0 % $ (360,306) (9.5) % Nine months ended September 30, 2019 2018 Increase / (Decrease) Margin Margin Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage EBITDA: Inpatient services $ 313,045 10.6 % $ 323,995 9.9 % $ (10,950) (3.4) % Rehabilitation therapy services 71,360 12.5 % 81,090 11.8 % (9,730) (12.0) % Other services 9,444 6.6 % (6,733) (5.4) % 16,177 (240.3) % Corporate and eliminations (126,711) % (146,819) % 20,108 (13.7) % EBITDA $ 267,138 7.8 % $ 251,533 6.6 % $ 15,605 6.2 % A summary of our unaudited condensed consolidating statement of operations follows (in thousands): Nine months ended September 30, 2019 Rehabilitation Inpatient Therapy Other Services Services Services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated Net revenues $ 2,965,348 $ 571,875 $ 142,905 $ 234 $ (249,965) $ 3,430,397 Salaries, wages and benefits 1,336,298 464,740 88,024 1,889,062 Other operating expenses 1,185,684 34,866 44,312 (250,355) 1,014,507 General and administrative costs 107,024 107,024 Lease expense 285,510 985 1,064 1,106 288,665 Depreciation and amortization expense 83,463 9,210 524 8,198 101,395 Interest expense 68,454 41 26 73,069 141,590 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 2,436 2,436 Investment income (6,078) (6,078) Other (income) loss (172,126) (76) 61 (172,141) Transaction costs 23,025 23,025 Long-lived asset impairments 16,937 16,937 Equity in net loss (income) of unconsolidated affiliates 4,318 (4,496) (178) Income (loss) before income tax benefit 161,128 62,109 8,894 (212,864) 4,886 24,153 Income tax benefit (680) (680) Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 161,128 $ 62,109 $ 8,894 $ (212,184) $ 4,886 $ 24,833 61 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30, 2018 Rehabilitation Inpatient Therapy Other Services Services Services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated Net revenues $ 3,267,862 $ 685,672 $ 124,184 $ 116 $ (287,131) $ 3,790,703 Salaries, wages and benefits 1,477,153 562,875 82,100 2,122,128 Other operating expenses 1,323,423 41,707 47,780 (287,131) 1,125,779 General and administrative costs 114,404 114,404 Lease expense 95,660 959 929 97,548 Depreciation and amortization expense 147,552 9,479 509 10,496 168,036 Interest expense 277,753 41 27 70,866 348,687 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 9,785 9,785 Investment income (4,856) (4,856) Other (income) loss (42,438) 78 (42,360) Transaction costs 26,567 26,567 Long-lived asset impairments 88,008 88,008 Goodwill and identifiable intangible asset impairments 2,061 2,061 Equity in net (income) loss of unconsolidated affiliates (1,029) 1,135 106 (Loss) income before income tax benefit (101,310) 71,570 (7,269) (227,046) (1,135) (265,190) Income tax benefit (1,759) (1,759) (Loss) income from continuing operations $ (101,310) $ 71,570 $ (7,269) $ (225,287) $ (1,135) $ (263,431) Net Revenues Net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $360.3 million, or 9.5%, as compared with the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Inpatient Services Revenue decreased $302.6 million, or 9.3%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. On a same-store basis, inpatient services revenue increased $26.1 million, or 1.0%, excluding 97 divested underperforming facilities and the acquisition or development of 12 additional facilities. This same-store increase is due to increasing census volume and payor rates, primarily in our Medicaid population, partially offset by continued decline in the skilled mix of our inpatient facilities. For the past several years, census and skilled mix trends have been affected by healthcare reforms resulting in lower lengths of stay among our skilled patient population and lower admissions caused by initiatives among acute care providers, managed care payors and conveners to divert certain skilled nursing referrals to home health or other community-based care settings. While overall census is recovering as compared with the preceding year, the skilled mix continued to deteriorate. We believe population demographics will present opportunities in the near future to recapture census where it was lost through reform measures. As recently as the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, we saw the decline of overall occupancy rates moderate and approximate those of the comparable period in 2017, and in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we saw overall same-store occupancy rates exceed that of the same period in 2018 by 100 basis points. However, at the same time, same-store skilled mix in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 lagged the same period in 2018 by 100 basis points. For an expanded discussion regarding the factors influencing our census decline, see Item 1, Business Recent Legislative, Regulatory and other Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, as well as Key Performance and Valuation Measures in this MD&A for quantification of the census trends and revenue per patient day. Rehabilitation Therapy Services Revenue decreased $63.7 million, or 15.1% comparing the nine months ended September 30, 2019 with the same period in 2018. Of that decrease, $61.7 million is due to lost contract business, offset by $16.4 million attributed to new contracts. The remaining decrease of $18.4 million is principally due to reduced volume of services provided and lower rates to existing customers. PDPM has not yet had an impact on rehabilitation therapy revenues, but beginning October 1, 2019, the pricing in our contracts with customers of our rehabilitation services will reflect the change in payment model. Additionally, as a result of the decline in therapist treatment hours, utilizing more group and concurrent therapy sessions, we anticipate that rehabilitation therapy revenue will decline by 6.5% as compared with periods prior to the implementation of PDPM. Other Services Revenue increased $6.0 million, or 5.8% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Our other services revenue is comprised mainly of our physician services and staffing services businesses, in addition to our ACO. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the ACO recognized revenue under the MSSP, with $2.3 million achievement pertaining to the 2018 service savings, $6.3 million estimated achievement for savings earned during the nine months ended September 30, 2019. There was no MSSP revenue recognized in the comparable three month period in 2018. Revenue in our physician services business increased $1.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with 62 Table of Contents the same period in 2018. The remaining decrease of revenue of $4.3 million is in our staffing services business, which has shifted its focus to developing its services to our affiliated nursing facilities and therapy gyms. While the staffing business gross revenue has increased 11.7% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018, its revenue from external customers has decreased 6.2% over that same period. Further penetration of the internal staffing needs is a strategic goal for our staffing business, and provides a benefit to our inpatient and rehabilitation therapy segments as record low unemployment nationally makes recruiting difficult. EBITDA EBITDA for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased by $15.6 million, or 6.2%, as compared with the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Excluding the impact of loss on early extinguishment of debt, other (income) loss, transaction costs, long-lived asset impairments, and goodwill and identifiable intangible asset impairments, EBITDA decreased $198.2 million, or 59.1% when compared with the same period in 2018. The contributing factors for this net decrease are described in our discussion below of segment results and corporate overhead. Inpatient Services EBITDA decreased by $11.0 million, or 3.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Excluding the impact of other (income) loss, long-lived asset impairments and goodwill and identifiable intangible asset impairments, EBITDA as adjusted decreased $213.8 million, or 57.5% when compared with the same period in 2018. On a same-store basis, the inpatient EBITDA as adjusted decreased $180.2 million. Of that same-store decline, lease expense increased $189.6 million, principally resulting from the adoption of Topic 842, which became effective on January 1, 2019. The impact to our financial position and statements of operation from the adoption of this accounting standard is more fully described in Note 1 General Information - Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements . See also Note 8 Leases . Our self-insurance programs, including general and professional liability, workers compensation and health insurance benefits, resulted in an increase of $9.2 million EBITDA as adjusted in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. While our self-insurance programs are performing as anticipated with reduced volumes related to the implementation of our portfolio optimization strategies and within normal claims reporting patterns of our same-store operations, we are also seeing reduced pressures particularly in our general and professional liability claims experience. The reduction in the provision for general and professional liability for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018 is the result of favorable prior year claim development and lower current year loss exposures. The favorable development is due to the combination of the ongoing impact of tort reform, claim settlements, and other risk management initiatives. Offsetting some of the positive trends in professional liability experience, self-insured health benefits on the same-store population saw an increase over the prior year quarter due to some singularly large claims that presented early in 2019. Same-store staffing costs, net of nursing agency and other purchased services, increased $21.6 million. Nursing wage inflation increased 4.6% while non-nursing wage inflation increased 0.2% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018, respectively. The remaining $21.8 million increase in EBITDA, as adjusted, of the segment is attributed to ongoing expense management and increased census volume in our skilled nursing facilities, partially offset by the continued pressures on skilled mix of our inpatient facilities described above under Net Revenues . Rehabilitation Therapy Services EBITDA decreased by $9.7 million, or 12.0%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Lost therapy contracts exceeded new contracts by $9.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. The remaining decrease of $0.6 million is principally attributed to reduced service volume and pricing to existing customers and increased labor costs, partially offset by overhead cost reductions and reductions of start-up losses in our operations in China. Higher costs of labor was largely offset with therapist efficiency which improved to 71.6% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared with 67.8% in the comparable period in the prior year. PDPM has not yet had a direct impact on the EBITDA of our rehabilitation therapy service business. Once it is implemented on October 1, 2019, and our service delivery model is completely transitioned, we anticipate the impact will be relatively neutral to our operating results with reduced labor costs offsetting the lost revenue previously described. Other Services EBITDA increased $16.2 million, or 240.3%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Of this amount, the ACO contributed $5.2 million, most of which was due to the low cost structure and no MSSP revenue recognition in that business in the comparable 2018 period. The EBITDA of our staffing services business increased $0.8 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018, principally due to growth in its services with affiliated customers. The remaining increase of $10.2 million pertains to our physician services business. The nine months ended September 30, 2018 included charges of $8.5 million to write down accounts receivable to its realizable fair value. Those charges did not recur in 2019, and in fact collections under a new third party contractor are continuing to trend 63 Table of Contents favorably. The remaining increase in our physician services business was principally driven by increased physician and nurse practitioner encounters, coupled with improved reimbursement rates, partially offset by increased administrative costs of practice management. Corporate and Eliminations EBITDA increased $20.1 million, or 13.7%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. EBITDA of our corporate function includes loss on early extinguishment of debt and losses associated with transactions that, in our chief operating decision makers view, are outside of the scope of our reportable segments. These other transactions, which are separately captioned in our consolidated statements of operations and described more fully above in our Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure, contributed $10.7 million of the net increase in EBITDA. Corporate overhead costs decreased $7.4 million, or 6.5%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. This decrease is principally due to the focus on cost containment to address market pressures on our business. The remaining increase in EBITDA of $2.0 million is primarily the result of an increase in investment earnings from our unconsolidated affiliates accounted for on the equity method and other investments. Other income Consistent with our strategy to divest assets in non-strategic markets, we incur losses and generate gains resulting from the sale, transition or closure of underperforming operations and assets. Other income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 principally represents non-cash gain on leases exited or modified and gains on the sale of owned assets in the period. See also Note 12 Other Income . Transaction costs In the normal course of business, we evaluate strategic acquisition, disposition and business development opportunities. The costs to pursue these opportunities, when incurred, vary from period to period depending on the nature of the transaction pursued and if those transactions are ever completed. Transaction costs incurred for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $23.0 million and $26.6 million, respectively. Long-lived asset impairments In the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recognized impairments of property and equipment, and ROU assets of $16.9 million and $88.0 million, respectively. For more information about the conditions of the business which contributed to these impairments, see Industry Trends and Recent Regulatory Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue and Financial Condition and Liquidity Considerations in this MD&A, as well as Note 13 Asset Impairment Charges - Long-Lived Assets with a Definite Useful Life. Other Expense The following discussion applies to the consolidated expense categories between consolidated EBITDA and net income (loss) from continuing operations of all reportable segments, corporate and eliminations in our consolidating statement of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Depreciation and amortization Each of our reportable segments and corporate overhead have depreciating property, plant and equipment, including amortization of finance lease ROU assets. Our rehabilitation therapy services and other services have identifiable intangible assets which amortize over the estimated life of those identifiable assets. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $66.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. On a same-store basis, depreciation and amortization decreased $44.8 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Of this decrease, approximately $37.7 million resulted from the adoption of Topic 842, which was effective on January 1, 2019 for us. The impact to our financial position and statements of operation from the adoption of this accounting standard is more fully described in Note 1 General Information - Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements and Note 8 Leases . In the inpatient services segment, $3.3 million of the decrease is principally due to prior year acceleration offset by current year acceleration related to multiple lease transactions. The remaining $3.8 million of decrease is principally due to asset impairments and assets reaching the end of their depreciable term. Interest expense Interest expense includes the cash interest and non-cash adjustments required to account for our debt instruments, as well as the expense associated with leases accounted for as finance leases or financing obligations. Interest expense decreased $207.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period 2018. On a same-store basis, interest expense is down $187.8 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Of this decrease, approximately $200.5 million resulted from the adoption of Topic 842, which was effective on January 1, 2019 for us. The impact to our financial position and statements of operation from the adoption of this accounting standard is more fully described in Note 1 General Information - Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements and Note 8 Leases . The 64 Table of Contents remaining increase of $12.7 million is principally the result of higher rates of interest incurred in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 on the debt instruments impacted by the financial restructuring, which was not fully realized in the prior year period, in addition to consolidating debt and the associated interest expense of a real-estate partnership in the first quarter of 2019, which was determined to be a VIE. See Note 1 General Information Basis of Presentation and Note 9 Long-Term Debt. Income tax benefit For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we recorded income tax benefit of $0.6 million from continuing operations representing an effective tax rate of (2.8)% compared to an income tax benefit of $1.8 million from continuing operations, representing an effective tax rate of 0.7% for the same period in 2018. There is a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, excluding our deferred tax asset on our Bermuda captive insurance companys discounted unpaid loss reserve. Previously, in assessing the requirement for, and amount of, a valuation allowance in accordance with the standard, we determined it was more likely than not we would not realize our deferred tax assets and established a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets. As of September 30, 2019, we have determined that the valuation allowance is still necessary. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. The following discussion applies to categories between net income (loss) from continuing operations and net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. in our consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests On February 2, 2015, FC-GEN combined with Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. and the combined results were consolidated with approximately 42.0% direct noncontrolling economic interest shown as noncontrolling interest in the financial statements of the combined entity. The direct noncontrolling economic interest is in the form of Class C common stock of FC-GEN that are exchangeable on a 1-to-1 basis to our public shares. The direct noncontrolling economic interest will continue to decrease as Class C common stock of FC-GEN are exchanged for public shares. Since the combination, there have been conversions of 7.9 million Class C common stock, leaving a remaining direct noncontrolling economic interest of approximately 34.1%. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, a loss of $7.7 million and $98.7 million, respectively, has been attributed to the Class C common stock. In addition to the noncontrolling interests attributable to the Class C common stock holders, our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all entities controlled by us through our ownership of a majority voting interest and the accounts of any VIEs where we are subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the VIE's activities, or entitled to receive a majority of the entity's residual returns, or both. We adjust net income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. to exclude the net income attributable to the third party ownership interests of the VIEs. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, (loss) income of $(8.9) million and $1.5 million, respectively, has been attributed to these unaffiliated third parties. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow and Liquidity The following table presents selected data from our consolidated statements of cash flows (in thousands): Nine months ended September 30, 2019 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 15,758 $ 14,066 Net cash used in investing activities (393,034) (54,877) Net cash provided by financing activities 363,069 110,273 Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and equivalents (14,207) 69,462 Beginning of period 142,276 58,638 End of period $ 128,069 $ 128,100 Net cash provided by operating activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $1.7 million compared with the same period in 2018. The nine months ended September 30, 2019 are highlighted by an increase in cash provided of $15.9 million for the collection of outstanding accounts receivable partially offset by an increase in cash used of $1.1 million for payments on accounts payable and other accrued expenses and other. Net cash used in investing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $393.0 million compared to net cash used in investing activities of $54.9 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Routine capital expenditures for the nine 65 Table of Contents months ended September 30, 2019 increased by $5.7 million as compared with the same period in the prior year. Net sales and maturities of marketable securities of $8.8 million in 2019 exceeded net purchases of marketable securities of $12.6 million in 2018, resulting in a net change in cash provided of $21.4 million. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, there were asset purchases of $252.5 million as a result of the consolidation of the Next Partnership and its acquisition of 22 skilled nursing facilities and asset sale proceeds of $79.0 million resulting from the simultaneous sale of seven skilled nursing facilities as described in Significant Transaction and Events Strategic Partnerships Next Partnership. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, there were asset purchases of $339.2 million as a result of the consolidation of the Vantage Point Partnership and its acquisition of 18 skilled nursing facilities as described in Significant Transaction and Events Strategic Partnerships Vantage Point Partnership. The nine months ended September 30, 2019 also included $66.9 million in proceeds from the sale of seven facilities in California as well as $91.7 million in proceeds from the sale of eight facilities in Georgia, New Jersey, Virginia and Maryland. In comparison, the nine months ended September 30, 2018 had no asset purchases or sales. The remaining incremental source of cash in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year of $0.1 million was due primarily to net joint venture investment and restricted deposit activity. Net cash provided by financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $363.1 million compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $110.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The net increase in cash provided by financing activities of $252.8 million is principally attributed to debt borrowings exceeding debt repayments in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we had proceeds from the issuance of debt of $480.9 million primarily resulting from the consolidation of the Next Partnership and Vantage Point Partnership. In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we had proceeds from the issuance of debt of $563.7 million, which includes $438.0 million from the ABL Credit Facilities, $73.0 million from the MidCap Real Estate Loans, $40.0 million from the expanded Term Loan Agreement and $10.9 million from the refinancing of a bridge loan with a HUD insured loan. Repayment of long-term debt in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $133.9 million compared to $462.1 million in the same period of the prior year. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we repaid $39.8 million in MidCap Real Estate Loans and $42.2 million in HUD-insured loans using proceeds from the sale of 12 facilities and reduced the term loan facility of the ABL Credit Facilities by $40.0 million while increasing the revolving credit facilities by the same amount. In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we paid $363.2 million in the retirement of our terminated revolving credit facilities, $69.8 million in the paydown of Welltower Real Estate Loans and $9.9 million in the payoff of a bridge loan with the proceeds from a HUD-insured refinancing. The remaining decrease in cash used to repay long-term debt of $7.3 million relates to a decrease in routine debt payments. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we had net borrowings under the revolving credit facilities of $3.5 million as compared with $27.1 million of net borrowings under the revolving credit facilities in the same period in 2018. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we paid debt issuance costs of $8.3 million resulting from the consolidation of the Next Partnership and the Vantage Point Partnership. In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we paid debt issuance costs of $16.7 million, which includes $13.6 million in fees for the ABL Credit Facilities and $2.9 million in fees for the MidCap Real Estate Loans. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we received contributions from a noncontrolling interest for $18.5 million and $8.5 million resulting from the consolidation of the aforementioned Next Partnership and Vantage Point Partnership, respectively. The remaining net increase in cash used in financing activities of $4.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 is primarily due to an increase in distributions to noncontrolling interests and repayments of finance lease obligations offset by a reduction in debt settlement costs. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and borrowings under our ABL Credit Facilities. The objectives of our capital planning strategy are to ensure we maintain adequate liquidity and flexibility. Pursuing and achieving those objectives allows us to support the execution of our operating and strategic plans and weather temporary disruptions in the capital markets and general business environment. Maintaining adequate liquidity is a function of our results of operations, restricted and unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and our available borrowing capacity. At September 30, 2019, we had total liquidity of $80.6 million consisting of cash on hand of $68.3 million and available borrowings under our ABL Credit Facilities of $12.3 million. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we maintained liquidity sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and development activities. 66 Table of Contents Financing Activities Welltower Loan Extensions On May 9, 2019, we entered into two loan amendments with Welltower to (1) extend the maturity date of the Term Loan Agreement from July 29, 2020 to November 30, 2021 and (2) extend the maturity date of one of the notes payable from October 30, 2020 to December 15, 2021. ABL Credit Facilities Amendment On June 5, 2019, the ABL Credit Facilities were amended to simultaneously increase the aggregate revolving credit facility commitment by $40.0 million and partially prepay the first lien term loan facility by $40.0 million. The resulting commitment levels of the revolving credit facility and first lien term loan facility were $240.0 million and $285.0 million, respectively. Divestiture of Non-Strategic Facilities Consistent with our strategy to divest assets in non-strategic markets, we have exited 43 inpatient operations, including 40 skilled nursing facilities, two assisted/senior living facility and one behavioral health center in 10 states beginning January 1, 2019 through November 1, 2019, including: The sale and lease termination of nine skilled nursing facilities located in New Jersey and Ohio between January 31, 2019 and February 7, 2019 that were subject to a master lease agreement with Welltower. A loss was recognized totaling $3.3 million. The closure of one skilled nursing facility located in Ohio on February 26, 2019. The facility remains subject to a master lease agreement. A loss was recognized totaling $0.2 million. The lease expiration of one behavioral health center located in California on April 1, 2019. A loss was recognized totaling $0.1 million. The sale and lease termination of two skilled nursing facilities located in Connecticut on May 1, 2019 that were subject to a master lease agreement with Welltower. A loss was recognized totaling $0.8 million. The sale of five owned skilled nursing facilities located in California on May 1, 2019. A gain was recognized totaling $25.0 million. The sale and lease termination of one skilled nursing facility located in Ohio on June 30, 2019. A loss was recognized totaling $0.3 million. The closure of one skilled nursing facility located in Massachusetts on July 1, 2019. The facility remains subject to a master lease agreement with Omega. A loss was recognized totaling $0.2 million. The sale and lease termination of three skilled nursing facilities located in Ohio on July 1, 2019 that were subject to a master lease with Omega. A loss was recognized totaling $0.8 million. The sale and lease termination of six skilled nursing facilities located in Ohio on August 1, 2019, marking an exit from the inpatient business in this state. A loss was recognized totaling $1.5 million. The sale of one owned assisted/senior living facility located in California on August 1, 2019. A gain was recognized totaling $0.1 million. The sale and lease termination of one skilled nursing facility located in Utah on August 1, 2019. A loss was recognized totaling $0.2 million. The sale of one owned skilled nursing facility located in Virginia on August 15, 2019. A gain was recognized totaling $16.5 million. The sale of one owned skilled nursing facility located in Maryland on August 15, 2019 and transfer of operations on September 1, 2019. A gain was recognized totaling $3.9 million. The sale of two owned skilled nursing facilities, one assisted/senior living facility and the lease termination of one skilled nursing facility located in Georgia on August 19, 2019. A gain was recognized totaling $7.6 million. The sale and lease termination of one skilled nursing facility located in Idaho on September 1, 2019. A loss was recognized totaling $0.2 million. The sale of one owned skilled nursing facility located in New Jersey on September 1, 2019. A gain was recognized totaling $11.1 million. 67 Table of Contents The sale of one owned skilled nursing facility located in California on September 17, 2019. A gain was recognized totaling $1.0 million. The sale of one owned skilled nursing facility located in New Jersey on September 27, 2019. A gain was recognized totaling $11.2 million. The sale of one owned skilled nursing facility located in New Jersey on August 27, 2019 and transfer of operations on October 1, 2019. A gain was recognized totaling $7.8 million. The sale and lease termination of one skilled nursing facility located in California on October 1, 2019. A loss was recognized totaling $0.4 million. Financial Covenants The ABL Credit Facilities, the Term Loan Agreement and the Welltower Real Estate Loans (collectively, the Credit Facilities) each contain a number of financial, affirmative and negative covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and maximum capital expenditures. At September 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all of the financial covenants contained in the Credit Facilities. We have master lease agreements with Welltower, Sabra Health Care REIT, Inc., Omega and Second Spring Healthcare Investments (collectively, the Master Lease Agreements). Our Master Lease Agreements each contain a number of financial, affirmative and negative covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and minimum liquidity. At September 30, 2019, we were in compliance with the covenants contained in the Master Lease Agreements. We have two master lease agreements with Cindat Best Years Welltower JV LLC involving 28 of our facilities. We did not meet certain financial covenants contained in one of the master lease agreements involving five of our facilities at September 30, 2019. On November 4, 2019, we received a waiver for these covenant breaches through January 1, 2021. At September 30, 2019, we are in compliance with the financial covenants contained in the other master lease agreement. At September 30, 2019, we did not meet certain financial covenants contained in three leases related to five of our facilities. We are, and expect to continue to be, current in the timely payment of our obligations under such leases. These leases do not have cross default provisions, nor do they trigger cross default provisions in any of our other loan or lease agreements. We will continue to work with the related credit parties to amend such leases and the related financial covenants. We do not believe the breach of such financial covenants has a material adverse impact on us at September 30, 2019. Our ability to maintain compliance with our covenants depends in part on managements ability to increase revenue and control costs. Due to continuing changes in the healthcare industry, as well as the uncertainty with respect to changing referral patterns, patient mix, and reimbursement rates, it is possible that future operating performance may not generate sufficient operating results to maintain compliance with our quarterly covenant compliance requirements. Should we fail to comply with our covenants at a future measurement date, we would, absent necessary and timely waivers and/or amendments, be in default under certain of our existing credit agreements. To the extent any cross-default provisions may apply, the default would have an even more significant impact on our financial position. Concentration of Credit Risk We are exposed to the credit risk of our third-party customers, many of whom are in similar lines of business as us and are exposed to the same systemic industry risks of operations as we are, resulting in a concentration of risk. These include organizations that utilize our rehabilitation services, staffing services and physician service offerings, engaged in similar business activities or having economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations, including those to us, to be similarly affected by changes in regulatory and systemic industry conditions. Management assesses its exposure to loss on accounts at the customer level. The greatest concentration of risk exists in our rehabilitation therapy services business where it has over 160 distinct customers, many being chain operators with more than one location. One customer, which is a related party of ours, comprises $32.5 million, approximately 35%, of the gross outstanding contract receivables in the rehabilitation services business at September 30, 2019. See Note 11 Related Party Transactions. One former customer comprises $8.0 million, approximately 9%, of the gross outstanding contract receivables in the rehabilitation services business at September 30, 2019. An adverse event impacting the solvency of these large customers resulting in their insolvency or other economic distress would have a material impact on us. 68 Table of Contents Financial Condition and Liquidity Considerations The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis that we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. In evaluating our ability to continue as a going concern, management considered the conditions and events that could raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for 12 months following the date our financial statements were issued (November 8, 2019). Management considered the recent results of operations as well as our current financial condition and liquidity sources, including current funds available, forecasted future cash flows and our conditional and unconditional obligations due before November 8, 2020. Based upon such considerations, management determined that there are no known or knowable conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for 12 months following the date of issuance of these financial statements (November 8, 2019). Our results of operations continue to be negatively impacted by the persistent pressure of healthcare reforms enacted in recent years. This challenging operating environment has been most acute in our inpatient segment, but also has had a detrimental effect on our rehabilitation therapy segment and its customers. In recent years, we have implemented a number of cost mitigation strategies to offset the negative financial implications of this challenging operating environment. These strategies have been successful in recent years, however, the negative impact of continued reductions in skilled patient admissions, shortening lengths of stay, escalating wage inflation and professional liability losses, combined with the increased cost of capital through escalating lease payments, persists. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we amended, or obtained waivers related to, the financial covenants of all of our material debt and lease agreements to account for these ongoing changes in our capital structure and business conditions. Although we are and project to be in compliance with all of our material debt and lease covenants through November 8, 2020, the ongoing uncertainty related to the impact of healthcare reform initiatives may have an adverse impact on our ability to remain in compliance with the covenants. Should we fail to comply with our debt and lease covenants at a future measurement date we could, absent necessary and timely waivers and/or amendments, be in default under certain of our existing debt and lease agreements. To the extent any crossdefault provisions apply, the default could have a more significant impact on our financial position. Risk and Uncertainties Although we are in compliance and project to be in compliance with our material debt and lease covenants, the ongoing uncertainty related to the impact of healthcare reform initiatives may have an adverse impact on our ability to remain in compliance with our covenants. Such uncertainty includes, changes in reimbursement patterns, patient admission patterns, bundled payment arrangements, as well as potential changes to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, among others. There can be no assurance that the confluence of these and other factors will not impede our ability to meet our debt and lease covenants in the future. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future impact on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expense, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.