Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview . Operations As of December 31, 2018, we offered inpatient services through our network of 425 skilled nursing and assisted/senior living facilities across 29 states, consisting of 399 skilled nursing facilities and 26 stand-alone assisted/senior living facilities. Of the 425 facilities, 359 are leased, 45 are owned, 15 are managed and 6 are joint ventures. Collectively, these skilled nursing and assisted/senior living facilities have 50,957 licensed beds, approximately 68% of which are concentrated in the states of California, Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. See Item 2. Properties for the full count of facilities by state. Our skilled nursing and assisted/senior living facilities are generally clustered in large urban or suburban markets. We leased 84% of our facilities as of December 31, 2018. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we generated approximately 84% of our revenue from our skilled nursing facilities. The remainder of our revenue is primarily generated from our assisted/senior living services, rehabilitation therapy services provided to third-party facilities, and other ancillary services. Our services focus primarily on the medical and physical issues facing elderly patients and are provided by the employees of our skilled nursing facilities, assisted/senior living communities, integrated and third-party rehabilitation therapy business, and other ancillary services. 1 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2018, we had three reportable operating segments: (1) inpatient services, which includes the operation of skilled nursing facilities and assisted/senior living facilities and is the largest portion of our business; (2) rehabilitation therapy services, which includes our integrated and third-party rehabilitation and respiratory therapy services; and (3) all other services. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the inpatient services segment generated approximately 86% of our revenue, the rehabilitation therapy services segment generated approximately 11% of our revenue and all other services accounted for the remaining balance of our revenue. For additional information regarding the financial performance of our reportable operating segments, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 7 " Segment Information," in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Inpatient Services Segment Skilled Nursing Facilities As of December 31, 2018, our skilled nursing facilities provided skilled nursing care at 399 regionally clustered facilities, having 47,536 licensed beds, in 29 states. We have developed programs for, and actively market our services to, high-acuity patients who are typically admitted to our facilities as they recover from strokes, other neurological conditions, cardiovascular and respiratory ailments, joint replacements and other muscular or skeletal disorders. We also provide 24-hour long-term care services for elderly residents and people with a chronic condition or a prolonged illness. Our staff is devoted to the creation of a comforting environment and focused on helping each person achieve their highest level of independence and vitality. We use interdisciplinary teams of experienced medical professionals to provide services prescribed by physicians. These teams include registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, certified nursing assistants and other professionals who provide individualized comprehensive nursing care to our short-stay and long-stay patients. Many of our skilled nursing facilities are equipped to provide specialty care, such as on-site dialysis, ventilator care, cardiac and pulmonary management. We also provide standard services to each of our skilled nursing patients, including room and board, special nutritional programs, social services, recreational activities and related healthcare and other services. Our PowerBack Rehabilitation branded facilities are designed to provide short-stay skilled nursing facilities that deliver a comprehensive rehabilitation regimen in accommodations specifically designed to serve high-acuity patients. We believe that having PowerBack Rehabilitation facilities enables us to more effectively serve higher acuity patients and achieve a higher skilled mix than a traditional hybrid skilled nursing facility, which in turn results in higher reimbursement rates. Skilled mix is the average daily number of Medicare and insurance patients we serve at our skilled nursing facilities divided by the average daily number of total patients we serve at our skilled nursing facilities. Insurance as a payor source includes both traditional commercial insurance programs as well as managed care plans, including Medicare Advantage plans. As of December 31, 2018, we operated 10 PowerBack Rehabilitation facilities with 1,075 beds. As of December 31, 2018, we have 21 facilities subject to management agreements with unaffiliated or jointly owned skilled nursing facility operators. The income associated with the management services provided to the third-party facility operator is included in inpatient services in our segment reporting as services are performed primarily by personnel supporting the inpatient services segment. Our administrative service company provides a full complement of administrative and consultative services to our affiliated operators to allow them to better focus on the delivery of healthcare services. Assisted/Senior Living Facilities We complement our skilled nursing care business by providing assisted/senior living services at 26 stand-alone facilities with 2,209 beds and offer an additional 1,212 assisted/senior living beds within our skilled nursing facilities as of December 31, 2018. Our assisted/senior living facilities provide residential accommodations, activities, meals, security, housekeeping and assistance in the activities of daily living to seniors who are independent or who require some support, but not the level of nursing care provided in a skilled nursing facility. Rehabilitation Therapy Services As of December 31, 2018, we provided rehabilitation therapy services, including speech-language pathology (SLP), physical therapy (PT), occupational therapy (OT) and respiratory therapy, to more than 1,400 healthcare locations in 46 states and the District of Columbia, including 396 facilities operated by us. We provide rehabilitation therapy services at our skilled nursing facilities and assisted/senior living facilities as part of an integrated service offering in connection with our skilled nursing care. We believe that an integrated approach to treating high-acuity patients enhances our ability to achieve successful patient outcomes and enables us to 2 Table of Contents identify and treat patients who can benefit from our rehabilitation therapy services. We believe hospitals and physician groups often refer high-acuity patients to our skilled nursing facilities because they recognize the value of an integrated approach to providing skilled nursing care and rehabilitation therapy services. We believe that we have also established a strong reputation as a premium provider of rehabilitation therapy services to third-party skilled nursing operators in our local markets, with a recognized ability to provide these services to high-acuity patients. Our approach to providing rehabilitation therapy services for third-party operators emphasizes quality treatment and successful clinical outcomes. In addition to our rehabilitation therapy services in the United States, we have a presence in the Chinese and Hong Kong markets with initiatives to develop a rehabilitation therapy care delivery model and other services. The revenues generated and long-lived assets associated with this expansion are immaterial as of December 31, 2018. Other Services As of December 31, 2018, we provided an array of other specialty medical services, including physician services, staffing services, and other healthcare related services. Industry Trends Healthcare Reforms . In recent years, reforms under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (PPACA) and other policy changes are reshaping all aspects of healthcare payment and delivery systems in the United States. A significant objective of these reforms is to transform delivery of and payment for healthcare services by holding providers accountable for the cost and quality of care provided. Medicare and many commercial third party payors are implementing Accountable Care Organization (ACO) models in which groups of providers share in the benefit and risk of providing care to an assigned group of individuals. Other reimbursement methodology reforms include value-based purchasing, in which a portion of provider reimbursement is redistributed based on relative performance on designated economic, clinical quality and patient satisfaction metrics. In addition, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) is implementing demonstration and mandatory programs to bundle acute care and post-acute care reimbursement to hold providers accountable for costs across a broader continuum of care. These reimbursement methodologies and similar programs are likely to continue and expand, both in public and commercial health plans. As alternative payment models seek to incentivize delivery of better care at lower costs, providers are making fundamental changes in their day-to-day operations to better coordinate and manage the care of patients, improve care transitions, reduce lengths of stay and prevent avoidable rehospitalizations. In recent years, these healthcare reform trends, among other factors, have resulted in a decline in the occupancy and skilled mix of our skilled nursing facilities and have reduced the utilization of rehabilitation therapy services. Reimbursement Trends . In recent years, continuing efforts of governmental and private third party payors to contain the rate of payment for the provision of healthcare services has impacted providers like us. Federal Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates in many states are based upon fixed payment systems. Generally, these rates are adjusted annually for inflation. In recent years, those adjustments have not reflected actual increases in the cost of providing healthcare services. In addition to rate pressure, in recent years we have continued to see a shift from traditional Fee-for-Service ( FFS) Medicare patients to Medicare Advantage patients. Reimbursement rates and average lengths of stay are generally lower for services provided to Medicare Advantage patients than they are for the same services provided to traditional FFS Medicare patients, negatively impacting our profitability. In addition to the federal Medicare program, a number of states use managed care to coordinate long term care support services and many states are interested in implementing or expanding existing ones. The emergence of managed Medicaid programs has resulted in lower rates of reimbursement for our services and has introduced new challenges and complexities with respect to billings and collections. We expect further migration towards managed Medicare and Medicaid programs. 3 Table of Contents Accordingly, in recent years, these reimbursement-related trends, along with other factors, have resulted in lower operating margins in each of our business segments despite our significant efforts to conform both our clinical operations and overall expense structure to these emerging payment trends. Revenue Sources We derive revenue primarily from the following programs: Medicaid, Medicaid Managed Care, Medicare, Medicare Advantage Plans, commercial insurance payors and private pay patients. Medicaid Medicaid typically covers patients that require standard room and board services, and provides reimbursement rates that are generally lower than rates earned from other sources. Medicaid is a program financed by state funds and matching federal funds administered by the states and their political subdivisions. Medicaid programs generally provide health benefits for qualifying individuals, and may supplement Medicare benefits for the disabled and for persons aged 65 and older meeting financial eligibility requirements. Medicaid reimbursement formulas are established by each state with the approval of the federal government in accordance with federal guidelines. Seniors who enter skilled nursing facilities as private pay clients can become eligible for Medicaid once they have substantially depleted their assets. Medicaid is the largest source of funding for skilled nursing facilities. Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to state and is based upon a number of different systems, including cost-based, prospective payment; case mixed adjusted payments and negotiated rate systems. Rates are subject to a states annual budgetary requirements and funding, statutory and regulatory changes and interpretations and rulings by individual state agencies and State Plan Amendments approved by CMS. Medicaid Managed Care Medicaid Managed Care is a health care delivery system of Medicaid health benefits and additional services through contracted arrangements between state Medicaid agencies and managed care organizations (MCOs) designed to manage cost, utilization and quality of care. The delivery of long term care services is provided through capitated payment programs known as Managed Long Term Services and Support (MLTSS). These MLTSS programs use a strategy for expanding home and community based services, ensuring quality and increasing efficiency. The number of states with MLTSS programs in 2018 is 22. Genesis has operations in 13 states that have MLTSS programs. States may implement a Medicaid MLTSS program under multiple federal authorities with the approval of CMS. Medicare Medicare is a federal program that provides healthcare benefits to individuals who are 65 years of age or older or are disabled. To achieve and maintain Medicare certification, a skilled nursing facility must sign a Medicare provider agreement and meet the CMS Requirements for Participation on an ongoing basis, as determined in periodic facility inspections or surveys conducted primarily by the state licensing agency in the state where the facility is located. Medicare pays for inpatient skilled nursing facility services under the prospective payment system (PPS). The prospective payment for each beneficiary is based upon the medical condition of and care needed by the beneficiary. Medicare Part A skilled nursing facility coverage is limited to 100 days per episode of illness for those beneficiaries who require daily care following discharge from an acute care hospital. Medicare Part A provides for inpatient services including hospital care, skilled nursing care, hospice and home healthcare. Medicare Part B provides for outpatient services including physician services, diagnostic services, durable medical equipment, skilled therapy services and medical supplies. Medicare Part C is a managed care option (Medicare Advantage) for beneficiaries who are entitled to Part A and enrolled in Part B and are administered by commercial health insurers that contract with Medicare or Medicaid. Medicare Part D is a benefit that provides prescription drug benefits for both Medicare and Medicare/Medicaid dual 4 Table of Contents eligible patients. Medicare reimburses our skilled nursing facilities under PPS for a defined bundle of inpatient covered services. Medicare coverage criteria require that a beneficiary spend at least three qualifying days in an inpatient acute setting before Medicare will cover the skilled nursing service. While beneficiaries are eligible for up to 100 days per episode of illness of skilled nursing care services (defined as requiring daily skilled nursing and/or skilled rehabilitation services), current law imposes a daily co-payment after the 20 th day of covered services. Under PPS, facilities are paid a predetermined amount per patient, per day, for certain services based on the anticipated costs of treating patients. The amount to be paid is determined by classifying each patient into a resource utilization group (RUG) category that is based upon each patient's acuity level. For Medicare beneficiaries who qualify for the Medicare Part A coverage, rehabilitation services are included in the per diem payment. For beneficiaries who do not meet the coverage criteria for Part A services, rehabilitation services may be provided under Medicare Part B. As discussed above, there are specific coverage and payment requirements. Part B Rehabilitation Requirements One of the more challenging rehabilitation requirements is that covered Part B services are limited with a payment cap by combined SLP and PT services and a separate annual cap for OT services. These caps were implemented under the authority of the Balanced Budget Amendments of 1997. On multiple occasions during the past two decades, Congress has interceded to suspend the therapy caps offering an exceptions process so claims in excess of the annualized cap can be processed. The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 extended the therapy exceptions process but added a second tier cap mandating manual medical review (MMR) for claims submitted that exceeded $3,700 for PT and SLP services combined and another threshold of $3,700 for OT services. The Medicare Access & CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (MACRA), which authorized payment reforms for physicians and other professional services, including the three rehabilitative therapies, included provisions not only stabilizing the professional fee schedules, but also extending the therapy cap exceptions process through December 31, 2017. On February 9, 2018, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 was signed into law, which provides for the repeal of all therapy caps retroactively to January 1, 2018. The law requires post-pay MMR in certain instances, once claims for SLP and PT reach $3,000 and OT reaches $3,000. Medicare Annual Market Basket Current law requires CMS to calculate an annual market basket update to the payment rates. Provisions of PPACA directed the agency to reduce that payment level by a calculated multi-factor productivity adjustment. The agency also retains the authority to review and adjust payments for corrections to previous year market baskets where over/under payment exceeded 0.05% between the projected market basket and the actual performance. Annually, on a federal fiscal year basis (October 1), the agency makes its payment changes. Normally, CMS issues proposed rules during April providing 60-days for stakeholder input, and issues finalized rules 60 days prior to the start of the fiscal year. If there are no substantive changes in rules and regulations, the agency has the authority to issue rate adjustments in a notice, rather than a proposed rule. The notice must be issued 60 days before the beginning of the fiscal year. On July 29, 2016, CMS issued a final rule for fiscal year 2017 outlining a net increase of 2.4% to Medicare reimbursement rates for skilled nursing facilities attributable to a 2.7% market basket increase, reduced by a 0.3% multi-factor productivity adjustment required by law. On July 31, 2017, CMS issued a final rule for fiscal year 2018 outlining Medicare payment rates for skilled nursing facilities. The final rule uses a market basket percentage of 1.0% effective October 1, 2017. On August 8, 2018, CMS issued a final rule for fiscal year 2019 outlining Medicare payment rates for skilled nursing facilities. A market basket increase of 2.4% was mandated by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 effective October 1, 2018. Reimbursement for fiscal year 2019 is based on the current payment methodology using the Resource Utilization Group, Version IV (RUG-IV) model with one significant change, the addition of the Skilled Nursing Facility Value-Based Purchasing (see below) incentive multiplier. 5 Table of Contents Skilled Nursing Facility - Quality Measures Reporting Program (SNF QRP): The Improving Medicare Post-Acute Care Transformation Act of 2014 (IMPACT Act) imposed new data reporting requirements for certain Post-Acute-Care (PAC) providers. The IMPACT Act requires that each skilled nursing facility submit their quality measures data. Beginning with fiscal year 2018, and each subsequent year, if a skilled nursing facility does not submit required quality data, their payment rates for the year are reduced by 2.0% points for that fiscal year. Application of the 2.0% reduction may result in payment rates for a fiscal year being less than the preceding fiscal year. In addition, reporting-based reductions to the market basket increase factor will not be cumulative; they will only apply for the fiscal year involved. A skilled nursing facility will receive a notification letter from its Medicare administrator contractor if it was non-compliant with the Quality Reporting Program reporting requirements and is subject to the payment reduction. Current performance measures mandated for the SNF QRP for fiscal year 2019 were established in the final SNF PPS rules adopted on August 4, 2017 (FY 2018 SNF PPS Rules). The final rules summarize these requirements, finalize adoption of a new measure removal factor for previously adopted SNF QRP measures, review the quality measures currently adopted for the fiscal year 2020 SNF QRP and finalize the intention to specify new measures to be adopted no later than October 1, 2019 for the fiscal year 2020 SNF QRP. The SNF QRP applies to freestanding skilled nursing facilities, skilled nursing facilities affiliated with acute care facilities, and all non-critical access hospital swing-bed rural hospitals. Under the SNF QRP, a skilled nursing facilitys annual market basket percentage is reduced by 2.0% points if the skilled nursing facility does not submit quality measure data in accordance with thresholds set by the IMPACT Act. Final fiscal year 2019 SNF PPS rules (FY 2019 SNF PPS Rules) specified that skilled nursing facilities that do not meet the SNF QRP requirements for a program year will receive a notice of non-compliance. Skilled Nursing Facility Value-Based Purchasing (SNF-VBP) Program The Protecting Access to Medicare Act (PAMA) of 2014, enacted into law on April 1, 2014, authorized a SNF-VBP Program that requires CMS to adopt a SNF-VBP payment adjustment for skilled nursing facilities effective October 1, 2018. CMS issued the fiscal year 2018 skilled nursing facility PPS Final Rule on August 4, 2017, which included instructions for the SNF-VBP Program. The PPS Final Rule adopts the Skilled Nursing Facility Readmission Measure as the skilled nursing facility 30-day all-cause readmission measure for the SNF-VBP Program. Effective October 1, 2018, skilled nursing facilities will have an opportunity to receive incentive payments based on their performance under the SNF-VBP Program. All skilled nursing facilities receive two scores, one for achievement and the other for improvement of their hospital readmission measure over the designated reporting period. All skilled nursing facilities are ranked from high to low based on the higher of the two scores. The highest ranked facilities will receive the highest payments, and the lowest ranked facilities will receive payments that are less than what they otherwise would have received without the SNF-VBP Program. CMS began to withhold 2.0% of Medicare payments starting October 1, 2018, to fund the incentive payment pool and will redistribute 60% of the withheld payments back to skilled nursing facilities through the SNF-VBP Program. All skilled nursing facilities will receive an incentive multiplier to apply to each of their RUG rates for the fiscal year that will either provide an incentive payment, a full RUG payment, or a reduction. In addition to setting the payment rules for skilled nursing facility services using the SNF-VBP Program, CMS annually adjusts its payment rules for other acute and post-acute service providers including hospitals and home health agencies using a similar SNF-VBP Program. It is important to understand the Medicare program and its reimbursement rates and rules are subject to frequent change. These include statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments (including retroactive adjustments), administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates at which Medicare reimburses us for our services. Budget pressures often lead the federal government to reduce or place limits on reimbursement rates under Medicare. Implementation of these and other types of measures has in the past, and could in the future, result in substantial reductions in our revenue and operating margins. The FY 2019 SNF PPS Rules reiterate the SNF-VBP program instructions and affirm that effective October 1, 2018, skilled nursing facilities now experience a 2.0% withholding to fund the incentive payment pool. Simultaneously, based upon performance, skilled nursing facilities have an opportunity to have their reimbursement rates adjusted for incentive payments based on their performance under the SNF-VBP Program. Of the 2.0% withheld under the SNF-VBP Program, we expect to retain 1.3% based on performance. 6 Table of Contents The FY 2019 SNF PPS Rules also account for social risk factors in the SNF-VBP Program and finalize the numerical values for the skilled nursing facility 30-day all-cause readmission measure for the fiscal year 2021 SNF-VBP Program based on the fiscal year 2017 baseline period. In addition, the FY 2019 SNF PPS Rules finalize scoring policy for skilled nursing facilities without sufficient baseline period data, finalize SNF-VBP Program scoring adjustment for low-volume skilled nursing facilities and establish an extraordinary circumstances exception policy for the SNF-VBP Program. Patient-Driven Payment Model (PDPM) The FY 2019 SNF PPS Rules include a new case-mix classification system called the Patient-Driven Payment Model (PDPM) that will replace the existing case-mix classification system, RUG-IV, effective October 1, 2019. PDPM is designed to increase focus on patients conditions and clinical needs, as opposed to the volume of services provided, thereby improving payment accuracy and encouraging a more patient-driven care model. Under PDPM, there are only two required minimum data set (MDS) assessments, the admission assessment and discharge assessment, with one optional MDS assessment, the interim payment assessment. PDPM utilizes a combination of six components to determine the amount of the per diem payment. Five of the components are case-mix adjusted, meaning they are intended to cover the utilization of skilled nursing facility resources that vary according to patient characteristics. These components are as follows: PT, OT, SLP, non-therapy ancillary (NTA) services, and nursing. The sixth component is non-case-mix adjusted, meaning it is intended to cover those skilled nursing facility resources that do not vary by patient. The PT, OT, and NTA components are also subject to a variable adjustment factor that serves to adjust the per diem payment over the course of the patients stay. PT and OT services have variable per diem adjustments beginning on the 21 st day of the Medicare stay and further adjusted every seven days thereafter. NTA services have variable per diem adjustments beginning on the 4th day of the Medicare stay. PDPM utilizes patient specific, data-driven characteristics to classify patients into payment groups within each of the six components, which are used as the basis for the payment amount. PDPM also revises the limits on group and concurrent therapy. RUG-IV included a 25% limit per discipline (PT, OT, SLP), for group therapy and did not impose a limit for concurrent therapy. PDPM includes a 25% limit per discipline (PT, OT, SLP), for both combined group and concurrent therapy. Decisions Regarding Skilled Nursing Facility Payment In addition to setting the payment rules for skilled nursing facility services using the SNF-VBP Program, CMS annually adjusts its payment rules for other acute and post-acute service providers including hospitals and home health agencies using a similar SNF-VBP Program. It is important to understand the Medicare program and that its reimbursement rates and rules are subject to frequent change. These include statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments (including retroactive adjustments), administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates at which Medicare reimburses us for our services. Budget pressures often lead the federal government to reduce or place limits on reimbursement rates under Medicare. Implementation of these and other types of measures has in the past, and could in the future, result in substantial reductions in our revenue and operating margins. Sequestration of Medicare Rates The Budget Control Act of 2011 requires a mandatory, across the board reduction in federal spending, called a sequestration. Medicare FFS claims with dates of service or dates of discharge on or after April 1, 2013 incur a 2.0% reduction in Medicare payments. All Medicare rate payments and settlements have incurred this mandatory reduction and it will continue to remain in place through at least 2023, unless Congress takes further action. Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Advantage Plans, sometimes called Medicare Part C or MA Plans, are offered by private companies that are approved by CMS. Medicare Advantage Plans cover all Medicare services and manage care of patients through a network of doctors, hospitals and other providers. Reimbursement rates for nursing care are negotiated with the plans and are not set by skilled nursing facility PPS rules of payments. CMS has indicated that Medicare Advantage Plans can determine whether any aspects of PDPM, which is effective October 1, 2019, will be incorporated into their reimbursement methodology. 7 Table of Contents Commercial Insurance A different type of insurance, commercial long-term care insurance, is also available to consumers. However, its role as a significant contributor to industry revenues has not been fully realized. Factors contributing to the lack of revenues include high premium costs and intermittent, often significant premium rate increases throughout the life of the policy and denials of coverage. Private and Other Payors Private and other payors consist primarily of self-pay individuals, family members or other third parties who directly pay for the services we provide. Reimbursement for our Services Reimbursement for Skilled Nursing Facilities The majority of skilled nursing facility revenues in the U.S. come from Medicare and Medicaid, with the remainder of revenues derived from managed care and commercial insurance, other third-party sources and private pay. Typically, all patients that enter a skilled nursing facility begin as a short-term acute care patient and either get discharged or become long-term care residents. After a patient no longer qualifies for skilled care under Medicare, the reimbursement of costs incurred by a skilled nursing facility patient will be shifted to private pay (out of pocket) resources and then Medicaid if the patient qualifies. Historically, adjustments to reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid have had a significant effect on our revenue and results of operations. Recently enacted, pending and proposed legislation and administrative rulemaking at the federal and state levels could have similar effects on our business. Efforts to impose reduced reimbursement rates, greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any delay or default by the federal or state governments in making Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement payments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reimbursement for Assisted/Senior Living Facilities Assisted/senior living facilities generate revenues primarily from private pay sources, including third-party insurance and self-pay, with only a small portion derived from government sources. Reimbursement for Rehabilitation Services Outside of therapy received during a Medicare Part A covered stay of up to 100 days, most of our rehabilitation therapy services are typically reimbursed under the Medicare Part B program. The payments made to our rehabilitation therapy services segment for services it provides to skilled nursing facilities are determined by negotiated patient per diem rates or a negotiated fee schedule based on the type of service rendered. In addition, this segment is also directly reimbursed from the Medicare Part B program and other insurance companies through its certified outpatient rehabilitation agencies and group practices for services provided in assisted living facilities, homes and the community. Recent Legislative, Regulatory and other Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue The revenue and operating environment for the post-acute and long term care services we deliver has been significantly shaped by a series of healthcare laws passed by Congress and implemented by government entities. The broad healthcare reforms enacted as part of PPACA have been among the most significant of revisions. Embedded in this complex legislation were provisions redesigning the private insurance market place, expanding the obligations of Medicaid, 8 Table of Contents empowering changes in Medicare and stimulating innovations in payment and care delivery. The implementation of the provisions of PPACA has shaped the policy landscape. Our operating environment has been further influenced by specific provisions in other legislation. Provisions of PAMA mandated implementation of skilled nursing facilities value-based incentives based on hospital readmission performance; provisions including a 2% payment withholding and performance incentive provisions are being implemented through the annual skilled nursing facilities PPS update rules. Provisions of the IMPACT Act established standardized patient assessment and quality performance measures for post-acute providers; provisions which are being implemented through specific regulations and instructions. This legislation mandated studies examining the feasibility of a unified post-acute care payment methodology. Provisions of MACRA revised the payment methodology for physician and non-physician professional services stimulating the development of alternative payment models. Included in this legislation was a provision limiting the fiscal year 2018 skilled nursing facility market basket increase to 1%, a provision implemented in the fiscal year 2018 skilled nursing facilities PPS rules. Provisions of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 that required government agencies to update and annually index civil monetary penalties (CMPs). This provision has been implemented by rule making. Provisions of the Notice of Observation Treatment and Implications for Care Eligibility Act implemented in 2016 requiring hospitals to inform Medicare beneficiaries whether services would qualify for the three-day inpatient requirement. Provisions of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which, among other provisions, repeals effective January 1, 2018 the Medicare Part B Therapy Caps for PT/SLP and OT services. As signed into law, this legislation has provisions restricting the Medicare skilled nursing facilities PPS market basket index for fiscal year 2019 to 2.4%, limits the physician/non-physician fee schedules update for the coming year, and alters payment beginning in 2022 for services provided by therapy assistants. Skilled Nursing Facilities Healthcare Reform Initiatives We believe we are transforming our business and operations for success in a post-healthcare reform environment. As healthcare reform continues to be implemented, we believe post-acute healthcare providers who provide quality diversified care, have density and strong reputations in local markets, have good relationships with acute care hospitals and payors and operate with scale will have a competitive advantage in an episodic payment environment. We believe our business strategies should position us to become a valuable partner to acute care hospitals and managed care organizations that are seeking to increase care coordination, reduce lengths of stay and hospital readmissions, more effectively manage healthcare costs and develop new care delivery and payment models. As the industry and its regulators engage in this new environment, we are positioning ourselves to adapt to changes that are ultimately made to the delivery system. Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP): Effective January 1, 2016, we entered our physician services subsidiary into MSSP as an ACO. Successful participation requires us to carefully document delivery, meet specific performance criteria and meet specific savings targets. While savings were generated for the 2016 performance year, they were not enough to meet the minimum savings target, and therefore, we did not share in any of the savings. In 2017, savings were not generated. The program continued into 2018 and 2019 and is expected to continue into the foreseeable future. The program is designed so that when savings targets are met participating providers will receive a share of the savings. CMS Bundling Demonstrations: We had been successful in managing multiple sites participating in the CMS Bundled Payment for Care Improvement (BPCI) demonstration. Based on the BPCI quarterly reconciliations, accumulated historical data and current data, our performance was within expectations. The demonstration term for the current bundling models expired on September 30, 2018. In late January 2018, CMS revised its program design by proposing a new model called BPCI Advanced. This new BPCI Advanced model, which commenced on October 1, 2018, precludes post-acute providers from participating in a 9 Table of Contents manner similar to the original demonstration program. Accordingly, we are evaluating whether this new program offers opportunities for participation. Competitive Strengths We believe that the following competitive strengths support our business strategy: Quality Patient Care, Differentiated Clinical Capabilities and Clinical Specialization : To ensure clinical oversight and continuity of patient care, we employ physicians, physician assistants and nurse practitioners that are primarily involved in providing medical direction and/or direct patient care. This medical staff structure allows for significant involvement of physicians at all levels of the organization, thus ensuring an emphasis on quality care is maintained. In an effort to further enhance the quality of care we provide to our patients, we have made significant investments to expand rehabilitation gym capacity and develop clinical specialty units. The development of clinical specialty units in our facility portfolio has allowed us to better meet the needs of our patients. These specialty units, along with our advanced capabilities in post-acute cardiac and pulmonary management, differentiate us in local areas, as competitors often do not offer these programs. Our focus on quality patient care, differentiated clinical capabilities and clinical specialization allows us to care for higher acuity patients who are typically reimbursed by Medicare or managed care payors. Strong Geographic Density in Regional Markets : We have developed geographic density in markets with 68% of our total licensed skilled nursing beds located in nine states: California, Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Within these and other states, we seek to cluster our facilities to create a dense, localized footprint. By clustering our facilities, we are able to provide a larger and more diverse number of clinical services within a regional market. As a result, we are often the leading skilled nursing facility operator in many of the regional markets in which we operate, based on number of beds. Strategically clustered facilities in single or contiguous markets also allow us to achieve lower operating costs through greater purchasing power and operating efficiencies, facilitate the development of strong relations with state and local regulators and provide us with the ability to coordinate sales and marketing strategies. Our strong reputation and operating performance in regional markets also allows us to develop relationships with key referral sources, including hospitals and other managed care payors. Experienced Management Team with Proven Operating Performance : We have an experienced management team with deep post-acute experience. Our management team has demonstrated an ability to adapt to a rapidly changing business climate, providing a distinct competitive advantage in navigating the complex and evolving post-acute care industry. Key Partnerships and Relationships : We have partnered with hospitals in our local markets to enhance the coordination of patient care during and after a post-acute rehabilitation stay. The goal of these relationships is to provide quality care while lowering hospital readmission rates and reducing overall healthcare costs. Further, these relationships allow us to manage patient outcomes and coordinate care once a patient leaves the acute care setting and enters one of our facilities. We have also forged key relationships with managed care payors to better align quality goals and reimbursement, resulting in a more coordinated care approach that reduces hospital readmissions. As an increasing number of patients gain access to health insurance through healthcare reform or move to managed Medicare and Medicaid programs, we are poised to capture additional market share as managed care companies look to match quality patient care with a cost efficient setting. Leading Post-Acute Provider Well Positioned for Increased Demand for Post-Acute Care: As life expectancy continues to increase in the United States and seniors account for a higher percentage of the U.S. population, we believe overall demand for the services we provide will increase. As the largest operator of skilled nursing facilities and the largest provider of post-acute rehabilitation therapy services in the U.S., we are well positioned to benefit from these trends by delivering cost effective, high quality services. Strategy We believe that we are well positioned to succeed in what will be an increasingly integrated healthcare delivery system. Our core strategy is to provide superior clinical outcomes with an approach that is patient-centered and focused on lowering costs by reducing lengths of stay and improving outcomes by developing programs to prevent avoidable rehospitalizations. 10 Table of Contents The key elements of our business strategy include: Commitment to quality care. We are focused on qualitative and quantitative clinical performance measures in order to enhance and improve the care provided in our facilities. We continually seek to enhance our reputation for providing clinical capabilities and favorable outcomes. Among other things, we have and will continue to increase our professional nursing mix and integrate nurse practitioners and employed physicians into our clinical model. We have incentivized our management team to improve clinical performance to further ensure accountability for the quality of care. Position ourselves for success in a value based environment. As healthcare reform continues to be implemented, we believe post-acute healthcare providers who provide quality diversified care, have density and strong reputations in local markets, have good relationships with acute care hospitals and operate with scale will have a competitive advantage in an episodic payment environment. Our ongoing clinical and operational initiatives position us as a valuable partner to acute care hospitals and managed care organizations that are seeking to increase care coordination, reduce lengths of stay, more effectively manage healthcare costs and develop new care delivery and payment models . Improve operating efficiency. We are continually focused on improving operating efficiency and controlling costs, while maintaining quality patient care. Investments in information systems, the development of tools to more effectively manage operating costs and the reengineering of key business and operating processes are an effective way to grow cash flow and improve operating margins. Such investments involve significant upfront costs that must be assessed on a long-term cost-benefit basis and can be limited due to our available liquidity. Focusing on core markets by optimizing our facility portfolio. We are continually evaluating the long-term strategic value of our portfolio of facilities and other operating businesses. In this regard, we will continue to pursue the sale, divestiture, closure or reconfiguration of facilities or businesses that are unprofitable, located in unattractive or saturated markets, physically obsolete or not core to our business strategy. Shedding non-core or non-strategic assets increases our focus and resources to assets in markets where we have geographic density, strong hospital partnerships and the greatest growth potential. Grow through selective acquisitions and successful integration. The post-acute care industry is highly fragmented. The vast majority of skilled nursing facilities are owned by local and regional groups, providing an opportunity for consolidation. We seek strategic acquisitions in selected target markets with strong demographic trends for growth in our service population. Expansion of existing facility clusters and the creation of new clusters in local markets will allow us to leverage existing operations and to achieve greater operating efficiencies. Government Regulation General Healthcare is an area of extensive and frequent regulatory change. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws may have a significant impact on our methods and costs of doing business. Our subsidiaries that provide healthcare services are subject to federal, state and local laws relating to, among other things, licensure, delivery, quality and adequacy of care, physical plant requirements, life safety, personnel and operating policies. In addition, our provider subsidiaries are subject to federal and state laws that govern billing and reimbursement, relationships with vendors and business relationships with physicians. Such laws include the Anti-Kickback Statue, the federal False Claims Act (FCA), the Stark Law and state corporate practice of medicine statutes. Governmental and other authorities periodically inspect our skilled nursing facilities, assisted/senior living facilities and outpatient rehabilitation agencies to verify that we continue to comply with the applicable regulations and standards. We must pass these inspections to remain licensed under state laws, to comply with our Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements, and, in some instances, to continue our participation in the Veterans Administration program. We can only participate in these third-party payment programs if inspections by regulatory authorities reveal that our facilities and agencies are in substantial compliance with applicable requirements. In the ordinary course of business, we may receive notices from federal or state regulatory authorities alleging deficiencies in certain regulatory practices. These statements of deficiency may require us to take corrective action to regain and maintain compliance. In some cases, federal or state regulators may impose other remedies including imposition of CMPs, temporary payment bans, loss of certification as a provider in the Medicare and/or Medicaid program or revocation of a state operating license. 11 Table of Contents We believe that the regulatory environment surrounding the healthcare industry subjects providers to intense scrutiny. In the ordinary course of business, providers are subject to inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies related to compliance with participation and payment rules under government payment programs. These inquiries may originate from the HHS Office of the Inspector General (OIG) audits, state Medicaid agencies, local and state ombudsman offices and CMS Recovery Audit Contractors, among other agencies. In response to the inquiries, investigations and audits, the federal and state governments continue to impose citations for regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory penalties, including demands for refund of overpayments, expanded CMPs that extend over long periods of time and date back to incidents long before surveyor visits, Medicare and Medicaid payment bans and terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We vigorously contest these matters where appropriate; however, there are significant legal and other expenses involved that consume our financial and personnel resources. Expansion of enforcement activity could adversely affect our business, financial condition or the results of our operations. Five-Star Quality Rating In 2008, CMS created the Five-Star Quality Rating System (the Star Ratings) to help consumers, families and caregivers compare skilled nursing facilities and choose providers more easily. Skilled nursing facilities receive an overall star rating from one to five stars based on three components: health inspection rating (survey results), quality measure calculations and staffing data. Each of the components receives star rankings as well. Skilled nursing facilities with five stars are considered to have much above average quality and skilled nursing facilities with one star are considered to have quality much below average. Families are increasingly consulting the Star Ratings prior to placing a family member in a skilled nursing facility and hospital referral partners are increasingly narrowing their panels of skilled nursing facilities to include only those with at least a three-star overall rating. However, CMS has acknowledged that there are limitations in using the Star Ratings to make inferences about nursing center quality, including (i) variations by state in survey processes, (ii) the use of payroll based data that may not fully reflect actual staffing patterns and (iii) quality measures do not represent all aspects of care that could be important to consumers. The foundation of the Star Rating is the annual survey. In April 2016, CMS added six quality measures to the Nursing Home Compare website. These quality measures include: successful discharges to the community; visits to the emergency department; rehospitalizations; improvements in function; long-stay residents whose ability to move independently worsened; and antianxiety or hypnotic medications. Five quality measures were used to compute Star Ratings in July 2016 (antianxiety or hypnotic medications were excluded). Starting in January 2017, the five quality measures have the same weight as the other quality measures. This change was the largest addition of quality measures to Nursing Home Compare since 2003 and nearly doubles the number of short-stay measures about key short-stay outcomes. Short-stay measures reflect care provided to residents who are in the nursing home for 100 days or less, while long-stay measures reflect care for residents who are in the nursing home for more than 100 days. The health inspection star rating for surveys was frozen and did not reflect surveys conducted between November 28, 2017 through the first quarter of 2019. This freeze was in anticipation of the phase 2 implementation of the Requirements for Participation on the same date, as well as the implementation of the new Long-Term Care Survey Process. CMS has notified providers that the freeze to the health inspection star for surveys will be lifted within the first quarter of 2019 and all surveys conducted during the freeze will be incorporated into the health inspection star. The table below summarizes the Star Rating given to our qualified skilled nursing facilities: Year ended December 31, 2018 2017 Number of skilled nursing facilities 393 438 Number of 3, 4 and 5-Star skilled nursing facilities 251 231 Percentage of 3, 4 and 5-Star skilled nursing facilities 64 % 53 % Payroll-Based Journal One of the CMS initiatives authorized by the PPACA was to improve the accuracy of nursing home staffing data. CMS initiated and rolled-out an electronic payroll-based journal (PBJ) requirement effective July 1, 2016. This system allows staffing and census information to be collected on a regular and more frequent basis than previously collected. It is also auditable to ensure accuracy. All long-term care facilities have access to this system at no cost to facilities. Effective January 2018, the Staffing Star component of 5 star is calculated using the data collected from PBJ coupled with MDS data. 12 Table of Contents Requirements for Participation On October 4, 2016, CMS published a final rule to make major changes to improve the care and safety of residents in long-term care facilities that participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The policies in this final rule are targeted at reducing unnecessary hospital readmissions and infections, improving the quality of care, and strengthening safety measures for residents in these facilities. Changes finalized in this rule include: Strengthening the rights of long-term care facility residents. Ensuring that long-term care facility staff members are properly trained on caring for residents with dementia and in preventing elder abuse. Ensuring that long-term care facilities take into consideration the health of residents when making decisions on the kinds and levels of staffing a facility needs to properly take care of its residents. Ensuring that staff members have the right skill sets and competencies to provide person-centered care to residents. The care plans developed for residents will take into consideration their goals of care and preferences. Improving care planning, including discharge planning for all residents with involvement of the facilitys interdisciplinary team and consideration of the caregivers capacity, giving residents information they need for follow-up after discharge, and ensuring that instructions are transmitted to any receiving facilities or services. Updating the long-term care facilitys infection prevention and control program, including requiring an infection prevention and control officer and an antibiotic stewardship program that includes antibiotic use protocols and a system to monitor antibiotic use. The regulations became effective on November 28, 2016. CMS is implementing the regulations using a phased approach. The phases are as follows: Phase 1: The regulations included in Phase 1 were implemented by November 28, 2016. Phase 2: The regulations included in Phase 2 were implemented by November 28, 2017. Phase 3: The regulations included in Phase 3 must be implemented by November 28, 2019. Some regulatory sections are divided among more than one phase, and some of the more extensive new requirements have been placed in later phases to allow facilities time to successfully prepare to achieve compliance. The total costs associated with implementing the new regulations is not known at this time. Failure to comply with the new regulations could result in exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have substantially complied with the regulations imposed through the Phase 1 and Phase 2 implementations. We are currently preparing for Phase 3 and anticipate substantial compliance on or before November 28th, 2019. Civil and Criminal Fraud and Abuse Laws and Enforcement Federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws regulate both the provision of services to government program beneficiaries and the methods and requirements for submitting claims for services rendered to such beneficiaries. Under these laws, individuals and organizations can be penalized for submitting claims for services that are not provided; that have been inadequately provided; billed in an incorrect manner, intentionally or accidentally, or other than as actually provided; not medically necessary; provided by an improper person; accompanied by an illegal inducement to utilize or refrain from utilizing a service or product; or billed or coded in a manner that does not otherwise comply with applicable governmental requirements. Penalties also may be imposed for violation of anti-kickback and patient referral laws. Federal and state governments have a range of criminal, civil and administrative sanctions available to penalize and remediate healthcare fraud and abuse, including exclusion of the provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, imposition of civil and criminal fines, suspension of payments and, in the case of individuals, imprisonment. We have internal policies and procedures, including a program designed to facilitate compliance with and to reduce exposure for violations of these and other laws and regulations. However, because enforcement efforts presently are widespread within the industry and may vary from region to region, there can be no assurance that our internal policies and procedures will significantly reduce or eliminate exposure to civil or criminal sanctions or adverse administrative determinations. 13 Table of Contents Anti-Kickback Statute Federal law commonly referred to as the Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of anything of value, directly or indirectly, in return for the referral of patients or arranging for the referral of patients, or in return for the recommendation, arrangement, purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by a federal healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid. Violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute is a felony, and sanctions for each violation include imprisonment of up to five years, significant criminal fines, significant CMPs plus three times the amount claimed or three times the remuneration offered, and exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Additionally, violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim under the FCA. Many states have adopted similar prohibitions against kickbacks and other practices that are intended to induce referrals applicable to all payors. We are required under the Medicare Requirements for Participation and some state licensing laws to contract with numerous healthcare providers and practitioners, including physicians, hospitals and hospice agencies and to arrange for these individuals or entities to provide services to our residents and patients. In addition, we have contracts with other suppliers, including pharmacies, laboratories, x-ray companies, ambulance services and medical equipment companies. Some of these individuals or entities may refer, or be in a position to refer, patients to us, and we may refer, or be in a position to refer, patients to these individuals or entities. Certain safe harbor provisions have been created so that although a relationship could potentially implicate the federal anti-kickback statute, it would not be treated as an offense under the statute. We attempt to structure these arrangements in a manner that falls within one of the safe harbors. Some of these arrangements may not ultimately satisfy the applicable safe harbor requirements, but failure to meet the safe harbor does not necessarily mean an arrangement is illegal. We believe that our arrangements with providers, practitioners and suppliers are in compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. However, if any of our arrangements with third parties were to be challenged and found to be in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute, we could be required to repay any amounts we received, subject to criminal penalties, and we could be excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Stark Law Federal law commonly known as the Stark Law prohibits a physician from making referrals for particular healthcare services to entities with which the physician (or an immediate family member of the physician) has a financial relationship if the services are payable by Medicare or Medicaid. If an arrangement is covered by the Stark Law, the requirements of a Stark Law exception must be met for the physician to be able to make referrals to the entity for designated health services and for the entity to be able to bill for these services. Although the term designated health services does not include long-term care services, some of the services provided at our skilled nursing facilities and other related business units are classified as designated health services, including PT, SLP and OT services. The term financial relationship is defined very broadly to include most types of ownership or compensation relationships. The Stark Law also prohibits the entity receiving the referral from seeking payment from the patient or the Medicare and Medicaid programs for services rendered pursuant to a prohibited referral. The Stark Law contains exceptions for certain physician ownership or investment interests in, and certain physician compensation arrangements with, certain entities. If a compensation arrangement or investment relationship between a physician, or immediate family member, and an entity satisfies the applicable requirements for a Stark Law exception, the Stark Law will not prohibit the physician from referring patients to the entity for designated health services. The exceptions for compensation arrangements cover employment relationships, personal services contracts and space and equipment leases, among others. If an entity violates the Stark Law, it could be subject to significant civil penalties. The entity also may be excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. If the Stark Law were found to apply to our relationships with referring physicians and no exception under the Stark Law were available, we would be required to restructure these relationships or refuse to accept referrals for designated health services from these physicians. If we were found to have submitted claims to Medicare or Medicaid for services provided pursuant to a referral prohibited by the Stark Law, we would be required to repay any amounts we received from Medicare or Medicaid for those services and could be subject to CMPs. Further, we could be excluded from participating in Medicare and Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. If we were required to repay any amounts to Medicare or Medicaid, subjected to fines, or excluded from the Medicare and Medicaid Programs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed significantly. As directed by PPACA, in 2010 CMS released a self-referral disclosure protocol (SRDP) for potential or actual violations of the Stark Law. Under SRDP, CMS states that it may, but is not required to, reduce the amounts due and owing for a Stark Law violation, and will consider the following factors in deciding whether to grant a reduction: (1) the nature and extent of the improper or illegal 14 Table of Contents practice; (2) the timeliness of the self-disclosure; (3) the cooperation in providing additional information related to the disclosure; (4) the litigation risk associated with the matter disclosed; and (5) the financial position of the disclosing party. Many states have physician relationship and referral statutes that are similar to the Stark Law. These laws generally apply regardless of the payor. We believe that our operations are structured to comply with the Stark Law and applicable state laws with respect to physician relationships and referrals. However, any finding that we are not in compliance with these laws could require us to change our operations or could subject us to penalties. This, in turn, could significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. False Claims Act Federal and state laws prohibit the submission of false claims and other acts that are considered fraudulent, wasteful or abusive. Under the federal FCA, actions against a provider can be initiated by the federal government or by a private party on behalf of the federal government. These private parties, who are often referred to as qui tam relators or relators, are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government. Both direct enforcement activity by the government and qui tam relator actions have increased significantly in recent years. The use of private enforcement actions against healthcare providers has increased dramatically, in part because the relators are entitled to share in a portion of any settlement or judgment. An FCA violation occurs when a provider knowingly submits a claim for items or services not provided. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 expanded the scope of the FCA by creating liability for knowingly retaining an overpayment received from the government and broadening protections for whistleblowers. The submission of false claims or the failure to timely repay overpayments may lead to the imposition of significant CMPs, significant criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in state and federally-funded healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Allegations of poor quality of care can also lead to FCA actions under a theory of worthless services. Worthless services cases allege that although care was provided it was so deficient that it was tantamount to no service at all. In recent years, prosecutors and relators are increasingly bringing FCA claims based on the implied certification theory as an expansion of the scope of the FCA. Under the implied certification theory, a violation of the FCA occurs when a providers request for payment implies a certification of compliance with the applicable statutes, regulations or contract provisions that are preconditions to payment. This development has increased the risk that a healthcare company will have to defend a false claims action, pay fines and treble damages or settlement amounts or be excluded from the federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of the FCA. Many states have enacted similar laws providing for imposition of civil and criminal penalties for the filing of fraudulent claims. Because we submit thousands of claims to Medicare each year, and there is a relatively long statute of limitations under the FCA, there is a risk that intentional, or even negligent or recklessly submitted claims that prove to be incorrect, or even billing errors, cost reporting errors or lapses in statutory or regulatory compliance with regard to the provision of healthcare services (including, without limitation the Anti-Kickback Statue and the federal self-referral law discussed above), could result in significant civil or criminal penalties against us. For information regarding matters in which the government is pursuing, or has expressed an intent to pursue, legal remedies against us under the FCA and similar state laws, see Note 22 " Commitment and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings ." We believe that our operations comply with the FCA and similar state laws. However, if our claims practices were challenged and found to violate the applicable laws, any finding that we are not in compliance with these laws could require us to change our operations or could subject us to penalties or make us ineligible to participate in certain government funded healthcare programs, which could in turn significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Patient Privacy and Security Laws There are numerous legislative and regulatory requirements at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy and security of health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) contains provisions that require us to adopt and maintain business procedures designed to protect the privacy, security and integrity of patients' individual health information. States also have laws that apply to the privacy of healthcare information. We must comply with these state privacy laws to the extent that they are more protective of healthcare information or provide additional protections not afforded by HIPAA. HIPAA's security standards were designed to protect specified information against reasonably anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of the information and to protect the information against unauthorized use or disclosure. These standards have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on the healthcare industry because they impose extensive requirements and restrictions on the use and disclosure of identifiable patient information. In addition, HIPAA established uniform standards governing 15 Table of Contents the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protecting the privacy and security of certain individually identifiable health information. The Health Information Technology for Clinical Health Act of 2009 (HITECH Act) expanded the requirements and noncompliance penalties under HIPAA and require correspondingly intensive compliance efforts by companies such as ours, including self-disclosures of breaches of unsecured health information to affected patients, federal officials, and, in some cases, the media. These laws make unauthorized employee access illegal and subject to self-disclosure and penalties. Other states may adopt similar or more extensive breach notice and privacy requirements. Compliance with these regulations could require us to make significant investments of money and other resources. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable state and federal regulations relating to privacy and security of patient information. However, if we fail to comply with the applicable regulations, we could be subject to significant penalties and other adverse consequences. Certificates of Need (CON) and Other Regulatory Matters There are CON programs in 35 states and the District of Columbia, many of which are states in which we operate skilled nursing facilities. We are required in these jurisdictions to obtain CON approval or exemption prior to certain changes including without limitation, change in ownership, capital expenditures over certain limits, development of a new facility or expansion of services of an existing facility or service in order to control overdevelopment of healthcare projects. Certain states that do not have CON programs may have other laws or regulations that limit or restrict the development or expansion of healthcare projects. In the event we choose to develop or expand the operations of our subsidiaries, the development or expansion could be affected adversely by the inability to obtain the necessary approvals, changes in the standards applicable to such approvals or possible delays and expenses associated with obtaining such approvals. Failure to comply with state requirements with CON or other regulations that address development or expansion of services could adversely affect the progress or completion of a healthcare project. State Operating License Requirements We are required to obtain state licenses, certificates or permits to operate each of our skilled nursing facilities. Many states require similar licenses or certificates for assisted/senior living facilities, and some states require a license to operate outpatient agencies. Medicare requires compliance with applicable state laws as a requirement of participation. In addition, healthcare professionals and practitioners are required to be licensed in most states. We take measures to ensure that our healthcare professionals are properly licensed and participate in required continuing education programs. We believe that our operating companies and personnel that provide these services have required licenses or certifications necessary for our current operations. Failure to obtain, maintain or renew a required license, permit or certification could adversely affect our ability to bill for services or operate in the ordinary course of business. Federal Health Care Reform In addition to the matters described above affecting Medicare and Medicaid participating providers, PPACA enacted several reforms with respect to skilled nursing facilities, including payment measures to realize significant savings of federal and state funds by deterring and prosecuting fraud and abuse in both the Medicare and Medicaid programs. While many of the provisions of PPACA will not take effect for several years or are subject to further refinement through the promulgation of regulations, some key provisions of PPACA are presently effective. Expanded CMPs and Escrow Provisions . PPACA includes expanded CMP and related provisions applicable to all Medicare and Medicaid providers. CMS rules adopted to implement applicable provisions of PPACA also provide that assessed CMPs may be collected and placed in whole or in part into an escrow account pending final disposition of the applicable administrative and judicial appeals processes. To the extent our businesses are assessed large CMPs that are collected and placed into an escrow account pending lengthy appeals, such actions could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. Nursing Home Transparency Requirements . In addition to expanded CMP provisions, PPACA imposes new transparency requirements for Medicare-participating nursing facilities. In addition to previously required disclosures regarding a facility's owners, management and secured creditors, PPACA expanded the required disclosures to include information regarding the facility's organizational structure, additional information on officers, directors, trustees and "managing employees" of the facility (including their names, titles, and start dates of services), and information regarding certain parties affiliated with the facility. The transparency provisions could result in the potential for greater government scrutiny and oversight of the 16 Table of Contents ownership and investment structure for skilled nursing facilities, as well as more extensive disclosure of entities and individuals that comprise part of skilled nursing facilities' ownership and management structure. Suspension of Payments During Pending Fraud Investigations . PPACA provides the federal government with expanded authority to suspend Medicare and Medicaid payments if a provider is investigated for allegations or issues of fraud. This suspension authority creates a new mechanism for the federal government to suspend both Medicare and Medicaid payments for allegations of fraud, independent of whether a state exercises its authority to suspend Medicaid payments pending a fraud investigation. To the extent the suspension of payments provision is applied to one of our businesses for allegations of fraud, such a suspension could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. Overpayment Reporting and Repayment; Expanded False Claims Act Liability . PPACA enacted several important changes that expand potential liability under the federal FCA. Overpayments related to services provided to both Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries must be reported and returned to the applicable payor within specified deadlines, or else they are considered obligations of the provider for purposes of the federal FCA. This new provision substantially tightens the repayment and reporting requirements generally associated with operations of healthcare providers to avoid FCA exposure. Home- and Community-Based Services . PPACA provides that states can provide home- and community-based attendant services and supports through the Community First Choice State plan option. States choosing to provide home- and community-based services under this option must make such services available to assist with activities of daily living and health related tasks under a plan of care agreed upon by the individual and his/her representative. PPACA also includes additional measures related to the expansion of home- and community-based services and authorizes states to expand coverage of home- and community-based services to individuals who would not otherwise be eligible for them. The expansion of home- and community-based services could reduce the demand for the facility-based services that we provide. Health Care-Acquired Conditions . PPACA provides that the Secretary of HHS must prohibit payments to states for any amounts expended for providing medical assistance for certain medical conditions acquired during the patient's receipt of healthcare services. The CMS regulation implementing this provision of PPACA prohibits states from making payments to providers under the Medicaid program for conditions that are deemed to be reasonably preventable. It uses Medicare's list of preventable conditions in inpatient hospital settings as the base (adjusted for the differences in the Medicare and Medicaid populations) and provides states the flexibility to identify additional preventable conditions and settings for which Medicaid payment will be denied. The provisions of PPACA discussed above are examples of recently enacted federal health reform provisions that we believe may have a material impact on the long-term care industry generally and on our business. However, the foregoing discussion is not intended to constitute, nor does it constitute, an exhaustive review and discussion of PPACA. It is possible that other provisions of PPACA may be interpreted, clarified, or applied to our businesses in a way that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similar federal and/or state legislation that may be adopted in the future could have similar effects. Competition Our skilled nursing facilities compete primarily on a local and regional basis with other skilled nursing facilities and with assisted/senior living facilities, from national and regional chains to smaller providers owning as few as a single facility. Competitors include other for-profit providers as well as non-profits, religiously-affiliated facilities, and government-owned facilities. We also compete under certain circumstances with inpatient rehabilitation facilities (IRF) and long-term acute care (LTAC) hospitals. Increasingly, we are competing with home health and community based providers who have developed programs designed to provide services to seniors outside an institutional setting, extending the time period before they need the higher level of care provided in a skilled nursing facility. In addition, some competitors are implementing vertical alignment strategies, such as hospitals who provide long-term care services. Our ability to compete successfully varies from location to location and depends on a number of factors, including the number of competing facilities in the local market and the types of services available at those facilities, our local reputation for quality care of patients, the commitment and expertise of our caregivers, our local service offerings and treatment programs, the cost of care in each locality, and the physical appearance, location, age and condition of our facilities. We seek to compete effectively in each market by establishing a reputation within the local community for quality of care, attractive and comfortable facilities, and providing specialized healthcare with an emphasized focus on high-acuity patients. Programs targeting high-acuity patients, including our PowerBack Rehabilitation facilities, generally have a higher staffing level per patient than our other inpatient facilities and compete more directly with an IRF or LTAC hospitals, in addition to other skilled nursing facilities. We believe that the average cost to a third-party payor for the treatment of our typical high-acuity patient is lower if that patient is treated in one of our skilled nursing facilities than if that same patient were to be treated in an IRF or LTAC hospital. 17 Table of Contents Our other services, such as assisted/senior living facilities and rehabilitation therapy provided to third-party facilities, also compete with local, regional, and national companies. The primary competitive factors in these businesses are similar to those for our skilled nursing facilities and include reputation, cost to provide the services, quality of clinical services, responsiveness to patient/resident needs, location and the ability to provide support in other areas such as information management and patient recordkeeping. Increased competition could limit our ability to attract and retain patients, attract and retain employees or to expand our business. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, may have greater brand recognition and may be more established in their respective communities than we are. Competing companies may also offer newer facilities or different programs or services than we do and may as a result be more attractive to our current patients, to potential patients and to referral sources. Employees and Labor Relations As of December 31, 2018, we employed an aggregate of approximately 61,300 active employees as follows: 40,700 in our inpatient services segment, 14,000 (primarily therapists) in our rehabilitation therapy segment, and 6,600 in our all other services segment, which includes our administrative services subsidiary. Our most significant operating cost is labor, which accounted for approximately 66% of our operating expenses from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2018. We seek to manage our labor costs by improving staffing retention, maintaining competitive labor rates, and reducing reliance on overtime compensation and temporary staffing services. Managing labor costs is proving to be difficult as reimbursement rate increases are often significantly lower than annual inflationary wage increases. The issue is compounded by the shift in payor mix to lower reimbursed Medicaid as well as increasing state-mandated minimum staffing requirements. As of December 31, 2018, we had 103 collective bargaining agreements with unions covering approximately 6,100 active employees at our skilled nursing facilities. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Insurance and Related Risks We maintain a variety of types of insurance, including general and professional liability, workers' compensation, fiduciary liability, property, cyber/privacy liability, directors' and officers' liability, crime, boiler and machinery, automobile liability, employment practices liability and earthquake and flood. We believe that our insurance programs are adequate and where there has been a direct transfer of risk to the insurance carrier, our risk is limited to the cost of the premium. We self-insure a significant portion of our potential liabilities for several risks, including certain types of general and professional liability, workers compensation, automobile liability and health benefits. To the extent our insurance coverage is insufficient or unavailable to cover losses that would otherwise be insurable, or to the extent that our estimates of anticipated liabilities that we self-insure are significantly lower than the actual self-insured liabilities that we incur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For additional information regarding our insurance programs, see Note 22 Commitments and Contingencies Loss Reserves for Certain Self-Insured Programs, in the financial statements included elsewhere in this report. We have developed a risk management program intended to control our insurance and professional liability costs. As part of this program, we have implemented an arbitration agreement program at each of our nursing facilities under which, upon admission and to the extent permitted under existing regulations, patients are requested (but not required) to execute an agreement that requires disputes to be arbitrated instead of litigated in court. We believe that this program accelerates resolution of disputes and reduces our liability exposure and related costs. We have also established an incident reporting process that involves the provision of tracking and trending data to our facility administrators for purposes of quality assurance and improvement. We apply an enterprise risk management program to continually evaluate risks and opportunities impacting the business. Environmental Matters We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. As a healthcare provider, we face regulatory requirements in areas of air and water quality control, medical and low-level radioactive waste management and disposal, asbestos management, response to mold and lead-based paint in our facilities and employee safety. In our role as owner of subsidiaries which operate our facilities (including our leased facilities), we also may be required to investigate and remediate hazardous substances that are located on the property, including any such substances that may have migrated off, or discharged or transported from the property. Part of our operations involves the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and/or discharge of hazardous, infectious, toxic, flammable and other hazardous materials, wastes, pollutants or contaminants. These activities may result in damage to individuals, property or the environment; may interrupt operations and/or increase costs; may result in legal liability, damages, injunctions or fines; may result in investigations, administrative proceedings, penalties or other governmental 18 Table of Contents agency actions; and may not be covered by insurance. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety requirements. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur environmental liabilities in the future, and such liabilities may result in material adverse consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Customers With the exception of our rehabilitation therapy services segment, no individual customer or client accounts for a significant portion of our revenue. We do not expect that the loss of a single customer or client within our inpatient services segment would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Within the rehabilitation services business, there are over 180 distinct customers, many of which are chain operators with more than one location. At December 31, 2018, the four largest customer accounts receivable balances comprised $55.8 million, approximately 52%, of the net outstanding contract receivables in the rehabilitation services business. An adverse event impacting the solvency of one or more of these large customers resulting in their insolvency or other economic distress would have a material impact on us. In December 2017, we recorded a $55.0 million non-cash impairment charge to customer receivership and other related charges, related to a customer, which is a related party of ours. This charge reduced the net receivable of the customer to $32.0 million. The customer comprises $32.3 million, approximately 30%, of the net outstanding contract receivables in the rehabilitation services business at December 31, 2018. In the year ended December 31, 2018, gross accounts receivable of $58.9 million were converted to a note receivable. The $55.0 million reserve recorded in 2017 was posted against the note receivable. Including the charge above, in the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded customer receivership and other related charges of $90.9 million associated with three rehabilitation therapy services contracts. See Note 17 Related Party Transactions. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are filed with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by us with the SEC are available free of charge at the investor relations section of our website at www.genesishcc.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Copies are also available, without charge, by writing to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. Investor Relations, 101 East State Street, Kennett Square, PA 19348. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The inclusion of our website address in this annual report does not include or incorporate by reference the information on our website into this annual report. Company History Genesis Healthcare, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in October 2005 under the name of SHG Holding Solutions, Inc., and subsequently changed its name to Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. (Skilled). On February 2, 2015, Skilled combined its businesses and operations (the Combination) with FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (FC-GEN), pursuant to a Purchase and Contribution Agreement dated August 18, 2014. In connection with the Combination, Skilled changed its name to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. In 2007, private equity funds managed by affiliates of Formation Capital, LLC and certain other investors acquired all the outstanding shares of Genesis HealthCare Corporation (GHC). In 2011, (i) GHC transferred to FC-GEN its business of operating and managing senior housing and care facilities, its joint venture entities and its other ancillary businesses, (ii) all the outstanding shares of GHC were sold to Welltower Inc. (Welltower) for purposes of transferring the ownership of GHCs senior housing facilities to Welltower and (iii) FC-GEN entered into a master lease agreement with Welltower pursuant to which FC-GEN leased back the senior housing facilities that it had transferred ownership to Welltower. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this report to the "Company" include the predecessors of Genesis Healthcare, Inc., including GHC, prior to 2011. Item 1A. Risk Factor s In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity in future periods. We operate in a rapidly changing and highly regulated environment that involves a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are highlighted below and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, 19 Table of Contents prospects, operating results or cash flows. The following risk factors are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, natural disasters, general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may in the future materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and stock price. Risks Related to Reimbursement and Regulation of our Business Reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates, or changes in the rules governing the Medicare program could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. We receive a significant portion of our revenue from Medicare, which accounted for 20% of our consolidated revenue during 2018 and 21% in 2017. In addition, many private payors base their reimbursement rates on the published Medicare rates or, in the case of our rehabilitation therapy services customers, are themselves reimbursed by Medicare for the services we provide. Accordingly, if Medicare reimbursement rates are reduced or fail to increase as quickly as our costs, or if there are changes in the rules governing the Medicare program that are disadvantageous to our business or industry, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. The Medicare program and its reimbursement rates and rules are subject to frequent change. These include statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments (including retroactive adjustments), administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates at which Medicare reimburses us for our services. Budget pressures often lead the federal government to reduce or place limits on reimbursement rates under Medicare. Implementation of these and other types of measures has in the past and could in the future result in substantial reductions in our revenue and operating margins. For example, due to the federal sequestration, an automatic 2% reduction in Medicare spending took effect beginning in April 2013. Subsequent actions by Congress extended sequestration through 2023. In addition, CMS often changes the rules governing the Medicare program, including those governing reimbursement. Changes that could adversely affect our business include: administrative or legislative changes to base rates or the bases of payment; limits on the services or types of providers for which Medicare will provide reimbursement; changes in methodology for patient assessment and/or determination of payment levels; the reduction or elimination of annual rate increases; or an increase in co-payments or deductibles payable by beneficiaries. Among the important changes in statute that are being implemented by CMS include provisions of the IMPACT Act. This law imposes a stringent timeline for implementing benchmark quality measures and data metrics across post-acute care providers (Long Stay Hospitals, IRFs, Skilled Nursing Facilities and Home Health Agencies). The enactment also mandates specific actions to design a unified payment methodology for post-acute providers. CMS is in the process of promulgating regulations to implement provisions of this enactment. Depending on the final details, the costs of implementation could be significant. The failure to meet implementation requirements could expose providers to fines and payment reductions. Reductions in reimbursement rates or the scope of services being reimbursed could have a material, adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations or even result in reimbursement rates that are insufficient to cover our operating costs. Additionally, any delay or default by the government in making Medicare reimbursement payments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reductions in Medicaid reimbursement rates or changes in the rules governing the Medicaid program could have a material, adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of reimbursement for long-term care services comes from Medicaid, a joint federal-state program purchasing healthcare services for the low income and indigent as well as certain higher-income individuals with significant health needs. Under broad federal criteria, states establish rules for eligibility, services and payment. Medicaid is our largest source of revenue, accounting for 49% of our consolidated revenue during 2018 and 48% in 2017. Medicaid is a state-administered program financed by both state 20 Table of Contents funds and matching federal funds. Medicaid spending has increased rapidly in recent years, becoming a significant component of state budgets. This, combined with slower state revenue growth, has led both the federal government and many states to institute measures aimed at controlling the growth of Medicaid spending, and in some instances reducing aggregate Medicaid spending. We expect these state and federal efforts to continue for the foreseeable future. The Medicaid program and its reimbursement rates and rules are subject to frequent change at both the federal and state level. These include statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments (including retroactive adjustments), administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates at which our services are reimbursed by state Medicaid plans. To generate funds to pay for the increasing costs of the Medicaid program, many states utilize financial arrangements commonly referred to as provider taxes. Under provider tax arrangements, states collect taxes from healthcare providers and then use the revenue to pay the providers as a Medicaid expenditure, which allows the states to then claim additional federal matching funds on the additional reimbursements. Current federal law provides for a cap on the maximum allowable provider tax as a percentage of the provider's total revenue. There can be no assurance that federal law will continue to provide matching federal funds on state Medicaid expenditures funded through provider taxes, or that the current caps on provider taxes will not be reduced. Any discontinuance or reduction in federal matching of provider tax-related Medicaid expenditures could have a significant and adverse effect on states' Medicaid expenditures, and as a result could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our revenue could be impacted by a shift to value-based reimbursement models, such as PDPM. On August 8, 2018, CMS issued a final rule to replace the existing case-mix classification system, RUG-IV, with a new case-mix classification system, PDPM, that will focus more on the clinical condition of the patient and less on the volume of services provided. PDPM is effective October 1, 2019. The following represent examples of potential risks associated with PDPM: Transition to a new reimbursement model . There is a short-term risk related to decreased accuracy due to the inherent learning curve associated with the implementation of a new reimbursement system and the corresponding process changes required to ensure that all the clinical conditions affecting the patient are accurately captured. During the initial transition from RUG IV to PDPM, it is possible that providers may not capture all aspects of a patients condition, resulting in lower reimbursement under PDPM. However, this risk should subside over time as providers gain experience with the new system. Future reimbursement levels . The final rule indicates that payments under PDPM will be budget neutral. CMS has made assumptions in the final rule as to the comparison of payments under RUG-IV to PDPM in fiscal year 2020. This estimate determined that a parity adjustment would be required to increase PDPM payments to bring them equal to what they would have been under RUG-IV payments. This increase, for fiscal year 2020, would achieve budget neutrality. However, the risk to providers is that going forward from fiscal year 2020 a lower parity adjustment could be applied to recapture any exceptional overpayments to providers caused by overestimating the parity adjustment. With the increased focus on therapy utilization under RUGs IV, there is concern as to the accuracy of the parity adjustment and how closely it will reflect the data that will be captured under PDPM where the focus is on the clinical condition of the patient in lieu of resource utilization. In addition, the entire parity adjustment could be removed by CMS and this would cause a drastic reduction in payments. Medicare Managed Care Programs and Rates. The introduction of PDPM could pose an indirect risk on existing Medicare Managed Care Plans. For example, many of the Medicare Managed Care Plans have relied upon the existing RUG-IV rates to set their own rates. Medicare Managed Care Plan contracts with providers may even make reference to RUG-IV rates. With the implementation of PDPM, CMS will no longer support the RUG-IV system after fiscal year 2020. This will leave providers to negotiate individual Medicare Managed Care reimbursement rates not based on the traditional Medicare Part A program. The risk is that the Medicare Managed Care Plans could negotiate much lower reimbursement rates and or leave providers without a contract for their Medicare Managed Care patients because the reimbursement rates would be too low to cover the cost of care. Impact on Medicaid Reimbursement . Various state Medicaid programs have used data collected using the MDS based on RUG-IV. With the shift to PDPM, some or all of that data will no longer be collected by CMS and made available to the states. In addition, CMS has notified state Medicaid programs that they will no longer support the RUG-IV system after fiscal year 2020 and recommended that states make changes to their Medicaid reimbursement programs to accommodate the upcoming changes. Consequently, there is a risk to providers that states may not have sufficient time to address the changes required to 21 Table of Contents transition to a different Medicaid reimbursement methodology. We may be adversely affected by the rates at which our services are reimbursed by state Medicaid plans. Reforms to the U.S. healthcare system have imposed new requirements upon us. PPACA and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the Reconciliation Act) included sweeping changes to how healthcare is paid for and furnished in the U.S. It has imposed new obligations on skilled nursing facilities, requiring them to disclose information regarding ownership, expenditures and certain other information. Moreover, the law requires skilled nursing facilities to electronically submit verifiable data on direct care staffing. CMS rules implementing these reporting requirements became effective on July 1, 2016. To address potential fraud and abuse in federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, PPACA includes provider screening and enhanced oversight periods for new providers and suppliers, as well as enhanced penalties for submitting false claims. It also provides funding for enhanced anti-fraud activities. PPACA imposes an enrollment moratoria in elevated risk areas by requiring providers and suppliers to establish compliance programs. PPACA also provides the federal government with expanded authority to suspend payment if a provider is investigated for allegations or issues of fraud. PPACA provides that Medicare and Medicaid payments may be suspended pending a credible investigation of fraud, unless the Secretary of HHS determines that good cause exists not to suspend payments. If one or more of our affiliated facilities were to experience an extended payment suspension for allegations of fraud, such a suspension could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and liquidity. PPACA gave authority to the HHS to establish, test and evaluate alternative payment methodologies for Medicare services. Various payment and services models have been developed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Innovations. Current models provide incentives for providers to coordinate patient care across the continuum and to be jointly accountable for an entire episode of care centered around a hospitalization. PPACA attempts to improve the healthcare delivery system through incentives to enhance quality, improve beneficiary outcomes and increase value of care. One of these key delivery system reforms is the encouragement of ACOs, which will facilitate coordination and cooperation among providers to improve the quality of care for Medicare beneficiaries and reduce unnecessary costs. Participating ACOs that meet specified quality performance standards will be eligible to receive a share of any savings if the actual per capita expenditures of their assigned Medicare beneficiaries are a sufficient percentage below their specified benchmark amount. Quality performance standards will include measures in such categories as clinical processes and outcomes of care, patient experience and utilization of services. Initiatives by managed care payors, conveners and referring acute care hospital systems to reduce lengths of stay and avoidable hospital readmissions and to divert referrals to home health or other community-based care settings may have an adverse impact on our census and length of stays. In addition, PPACA required HHS to develop a plan to implement a value-based purchasing program for Medicare payments to skilled nursing facilities, including measures and performance standards regarding preventable hospital readmissions. Beginning October 1, 2018, HHS withholds 2% of Medicare payments from all skilled nursing facilities and distributes this pool of payment to skilled nursing facilities as incentive payments for preventing readmissions to hospitals. In addition to the requirements that are being implemented, legislation is pending in Congress to broaden the value-based purchasing requirements featuring a payment withholding designed to fund the program across all post-acute services. We are unable to determine the degree to which our participation in innovative pay for value programs with other providers of service will affect our financial results versus traditional business models for the long-term care industry. The provisions of PPACA discussed above are examples of some federal health reform provisions that we believe may have a material impact on the long-term care industry and on our business. However, the foregoing discussion is not intended to constitute, nor does it constitute, an exhaustive review and discussion of PPACA. It is possible that these and other provisions of PPACA may be interpreted, clarified, or applied to our affiliated facilities or operating subsidiaries in a way that could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations. We currently cannot predict the full effect that all of these changes will have on our business, including the demand for our services or the amount of reimbursement available for those services. However, it is possible these laws may reduce reimbursement and adversely affect our business. 22 Table of Contents PPACA and the implementation of provisions not yet effective could impact our business. PPACA has resulted in and could continue to result in sweeping changes to the existing U.S. system for the delivery and financing of healthcare. As an employer, we must abide by the numerous reporting requirements imposed by the law and regulations implementing PPACA. These provisions could impact our compensation costs and force changes in how the company supports health benefits for its employees. The details for implementation of many of the requirements under PPACA will depend on the promulgation of regulations by a number of federal government agencies, including the HHS. It is impossible to predict the outcome of these changes, what many of the final requirements of PPACA will be, and the net effect of those requirements on us. As such, we cannot fully predict the impact of PPACA on our business, operations or financial performance. Our business may be materially impacted if certain aspects of PPACA are amended, repealed, or successfully challenged. A number of lawsuits have been filed challenging various aspects of PPACA and related regulations. In addition, the efficacy of PPACA is the subject of much debate among members of Congress and the public. The outcome of the 2016 election altered leadership in the executive branch of the government. New leaders in CMS have begun making revisions to some of the demonstrations supported by the previous leaders. These revisions could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our business and the health care industry. In the event that legal challenges are successful or PPACA is repealed or materially amended, particularly any elements of PPACA that are beneficial to our business or that cause changes in the health insurance industry, including reimbursement and coverage by private, Medicare or Medicaid payors, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, such changes could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, even if PPACA is not amended or repealed, the executive branch of the federal government has significant influence on the implementation of the provisions of PPACA, and the administration could make changes impacting the implementation and enforcement of PPACA, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are slow or unable to adapt to any such changes, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. PPACA significantly expanded Medicaid and it provided states incentives for broadening coverage beyond the traditional Medicaid program assisting eligible aged, blind and disabled individuals. Major Medicaid policy revisions under consideration could potentially alter fundamental structure of the Medicaid program; such revisions could be significantly challenging with the potential of undermining funding adequacy and essential coverage requirements. Revenue we receive from Medicare and Medicaid is subject to potential retroactive reduction. Payments we receive from Medicare and Medicaid can be retroactively adjusted after examination during the claims settlement process or as a result of post-payment audits. Payors may disallow our requests for reimbursement, or recoup amounts previously reimbursed, based on determinations by the payors or their third-party audit contractors that certain costs are not reimbursable because either adequate or additional documentation was not provided or because certain services were not covered or deemed to not be medically necessary. Significant adjustments, recoupments or repayments of our Medicare or Medicaid revenue, and the costs associated with complying with investigative audits by regulatory and governmental authorities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, from time to time we become aware, either based on information provided by third parties and/or the results of internal audits, of payments from payor sources that were either wholly or partially in excess of the amount that we should have been paid for the service provided. Overpayments may result from a variety of factors, including insufficient documentation supporting the services rendered or medical necessity of the services, other failures to document the satisfaction of the necessary requirements for payment, or in some cases for providing services that are deemed to be worthless. We are required by law in most instances to refund the full amount of the overpayment after becoming aware of it, and failure to do so within requisite time limits imposed by the law could lead to significant fines and penalties being imposed on us. Furthermore, our initial billing of and payments for services that are unsupported by the requisite documentation and satisfaction of any other requirements for payment, regardless of our awareness of the failure at the time of the billing or payment, could expose us to significant fines and penalties, including pursuant to the FCA and the Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law (FCMPL). Violations of the FCA could lead to any combination of a variety of criminal, civil and administrative fines and penalties. Beginning in 2018, CMPs under the FCA increased to a range of approximately $11,000 to $22,000 and are adjusted annually for inflation. Treble damages can be assessed on each claim that was submitted to the government for payment. We and/or certain of our operating companies could also be subject to exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs in some circumstances as well, in addition to any monetary or other fines, penalties or sanctions that we may incur 23 Table of Contents under applicable federal and/or state law. Our repayment of any such amounts, as well as any fines, penalties or other sanctions that we may incur, could be significant and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. From time to time we are also involved in various external governmental investigations, audits and reviews. Reviews, audits and investigations of this sort can lead to government actions, which can result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs. For example, the OIG conducts a variety of routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews across our industry. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, becoming subject to these governmental investigations, audits and reviews can also require us to incur significant legal and document production expenses as we cooperate with the government authorities, regardless of whether the particular investigation, audit or review leads to the identification of underlying issues. For example, as discussed in Note 22 Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings Settlement Agreement , in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report, on June 9, 2017, we and the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ) entered into a settlement agreement regarding four matters arising out of the activities of Skilled or Sun Healthcare Group, Inc. (Sun) prior to their operations becoming part of our operations (collectively, the Successor Matters). We have agreed to the settlement in order to resolve the allegations underlying the Successor Matters and to avoid the uncertainty and expense of litigation. The settlement agreement calls for payment of a collective settlement amount of $52.7 million (the Settlement Amount), including separate Medicaid repayment agreements with each affected state Medicaid program. We will continue to remit the remaining Settlement Amount balance of $37.4 million as of December 31, 2018 through 2022. Changes in Medicare reimbursements for physician and non-physician services could impact reimbursement for medical professionals. MACRA revised the payment system for physician and non-physician services. Section 1 of that law, the sustainable growth rate repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization will impact payment provisions for medical professional services. That enactment also extended for two years provisions that permit an exceptions process from therapy caps imposed on Medicare Part B outpatient therapy. There was a combined cap for PT and SLP and a separate cap for OT services that apply subject to certain exceptions. On February 9, 2018, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 was signed into law, which provides for the repeal of all therapy caps retroactively to January 1, 2018. The law provides for MMR, in certain instances, once claims for SLP and PT reach $3,000 and OT reaches $3,000. Prior to January 1, 2018, the MMR requirement generally provided that, on a per beneficiary basis and subject to limited exceptions, services above $3,700 for PT and SLP services combined and/or $3,700 for OT services would be subject to MMR. The reduction in the MMR services threshold could result in increased number of reviews, which could in turn have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and government regulations. If we are not operating in compliance with these laws and regulations or if these laws and regulations change, we could be required to make significant expenditures or change our operations in order to bring our facilities and operations into compliance. We, along with other companies in the healthcare industry, are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: licensure and certification; adequacy and quality of healthcare services; qualifications of healthcare and support personnel; quality of medical equipment; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and claims processing; relationships with physicians and other referral sources and recipients; constraints on protective contractual provisions with patients and third-party payors; operating policies and procedures; addition of facilities and services; and 24 Table of Contents billing for services. Many of these laws and regulations are expansive, and we do not always have the benefit of significant guidance or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. In addition, many of these laws and regulations evolve to include additional obligations and restrictions, sometimes with retroactive effect. Certain other regulatory developments, such as revisions in the building code requirements for assisted/senior living and skilled nursing facilities, mandatory increases in scope and quality of care to be offered to residents, revisions in licensing and certification standards, mandatory staffing levels, regulations regarding conditions for payment and regulations restricting those we can hire could also have a material adverse effect on us. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. In addition, federal and state government agencies have increased and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare companies, including skilled nursing facilities. This includes investigations of: fraud and abuse; quality of care; financial relationships with referral sources; and the medical necessity of services provided. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject regularly to inquiries, investigations, and audits by federal and state agencies that oversee applicable healthcare program participation and payment regulations. Audits may include enhanced medical necessity reviews pursuant to the Medicare, Medicaid, and the SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (the SCHIP Extension Act) and audits under the CMS Recovery Audit Contractor (RAC) program. We believe that the regulatory environment surrounding most segments of the healthcare industry remains intense. Federal and state governments continue to impose intensive enforcement policies resulting in a significant number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies, and other regulatory penalties, including demands for refund of overpayments, terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions, and CMPs. These enforcement policies, along with the costs incurred to respond to and defend reviews, audits, and investigations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. We vigorously contest such penalties where appropriate; however, these cases can involve significant legal and other expenses and consume our resources. Section 1877 of the Social Security Act, commonly known as the Stark Law, provides that a physician may not refer a Medicare or Medicaid patient for a designated health service to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship unless the financial arrangement meets an exception under the Stark Law or its regulations. Designated health services include inpatient and outpatient hospital services, PT, OT, SLP, durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics and supplies, diagnostic imaging, enteral and parenteral feeding and supplies, home health services, and clinical laboratory services. Under the Stark Law, a financial relationship is defined as an ownership or investment interest or a compensation arrangement. If such a financial relationship exists and does not meet a Stark Law exception, the entity is prohibited from submitting or claiming payment under the Medicare or Medicaid programs or from collecting from the patient or other payor. Many of the compensation arrangements exceptions permit referrals if, among other things, the arrangement is set forth in a written agreement signed by the parties, the compensation to be paid is set in advance, is consistent with fair market value and is not determined in a manner that takes into account the volume or value of any referrals or other business generated between the parties. Exceptions may have other requirements. Any funds collected for an item or service resulting from a referral that violates the Stark Law must be repaid to Medicare or Medicaid, any other third-party payor, and the patient. In addition, CMPs, which are adjusted for annual inflation, and treble damages may be imposed for presenting or causing to be presented, a claim for a service rendered in violation of the Stark Law. Many states have enacted healthcare provider referral laws that go beyond physician self-referrals or apply to a greater range of services than just the designated health services under the Stark Law. The Anti-Kickback Statute, Section 1128B of the Social Security Act (the Anti-Kickback Statute) prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce the referral of an individual, in return for recommending, or to arrange for, the referral of an individual for any item or service payable 25 Table of Contents under any federal healthcare program, including Medicare or Medicaid. The OIG has issued regulations that create safe harbors for certain conduct and business relationships that are deemed protected under the Anti-Kickback Statute. In order to receive safe harbor protection, all of the requirements of a safe harbor must be met. The fact that a given business arrangement does not fall within one of these safe harbors, however, does not render the arrangement per se illegal. Business arrangements of healthcare service providers that fail to satisfy the applicable safe harbor criteria, if investigated, will be evaluated based upon all facts and circumstances and risk increased scrutiny and possible sanctions by enforcement authorities. Potential fines under the Anti-Kickback Statute range from $25,000 to $100,000 per violation, up to ten years in prison, or both. We believe that business practices of providers and financial relationships between providers have become subject to increased scrutiny as healthcare reform efforts continue on the federal and state levels. State Medicaid programs are required to enact an anti-kickback statute. Many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the Medicaid program, to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients regardless of the source of payment for the care. The DOJ may bring an action under the FCA, alleging that a healthcare provider has defrauded the government by submitting a claim for items or services not rendered as claimed, which may include coding errors, billing for services not provided, and submitting false or erroneous cost reports. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 expanded the scope of the FCA by, among other things, creating liability for knowingly and improperly avoiding repayment of an overpayment received from the government and broadening protections for whistleblowers. The FCA clarifies that if an item or service is provided in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute, the claim submitted for those items or services is a false claim that may be prosecuted under the FCA as a false claim. C MPs under the FCA range from approximately $11,000 to $22,000 and are adjusted annually for inflation. Under the qui tam or whistleblower provisions of the FCA, a private individual with knowledge of fraud may bring a claim on behalf of the federal government and receive a percentage of the federal governments recovery. Due to these whistleblower incentives, lawsuits have become more frequent. In addition to the penalties described above, if we violate any of these laws, we may be excluded from participation in federal and/or state healthcare programs. These fraud and abuse laws and regulations are complex, and we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. While we do not believe we are in violation of these prohibitions, we cannot assure you that governmental officials charged with the responsibility for enforcing these prohibitions will not assert that we are violating the provisions of such laws and regulations. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, the intensity of federal and state enforcement actions or the extent and size of any potential sanctions, fines or penalties. Changes in the regulatory framework, our failure to obtain or renew required regulatory approvals or licenses or to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the suspension or revocation of our licenses or our disqualification from participation in federal and state reimbursement programs, or the imposition of other enforcement sanctions, fines or penalties could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, should we lose licenses or certifications for a number of our facilities or other businesses as a result of regulatory action, legal proceedings such as those described in Note 22 Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings, or otherwise, we could be deemed to be in default under some of our agreements, including agreements governing outstanding indebtedness and the report of such issues at one of our facilities could harm our reputation for quality care and lead to a reduction in our patient referrals and ultimately our revenue and operating income. Our physician services operations are subject to corporate practice of medicine laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. One line of our business that we continue to develop is physician services. Certain states have laws and regulations prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting, which generally prohibit business entities from owning or controlling medical practices or may limit the ability of clinical professionals to share professional service income with non-professional or business interests. These requirements may vary significantly from state to state. Compliance with applicable regulations may cause us to incur expenses that we have not anticipated, and if we are unable to comply with these additional legal requirements, we may incur liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 26 Table of Contents We face inspections, reviews, audits and investigations under federal and state government programs and contracts. These audits could have adverse findings that may negatively affect our business, including our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and reputation. As a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, we are subject to various governmental inspections, reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with these programs and applicable laws and regulations. Managed care payors may also reserve the right to conduct audits. We also periodically conduct internal audits and reviews of our regulatory compliance. An adverse inspection, review, audit or investigation could result in: refunding amounts we have been paid pursuant to the Medicare or Medicaid programs or from managed care payors; state or federal agencies imposing fines, penalties and other sanctions on us; temporary suspension of payment for new patients to the facility or agency; decertification or exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs or one or more managed care payor networks; self-disclosure of violations to applicable regulatory authorities; damage to our reputation; the revocation of a facility's or agency's license; and loss of certain rights under, or termination of, our contracts with managed care payors. We have in the past and will likely in the future be required to refund amounts we have been paid and/or pay fines and penalties, as a result of these inspections, reviews, audits and investigations. If adverse inspections, reviews, audits or investigations occur and any of the results noted above occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, the legal, document production and other costs associated with complying with these inspections, reviews, audits or investigations could be significant. Our operations are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety regulations, which could subject us to fines, penalties and increased operational costs. We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Regulatory requirements faced by healthcare providers such as us include those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, air and water quality control, occupational health and safety (such as standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics), management and disposal of low-level radioactive medical waste, biohazards and other wastes, management of explosive or combustible gases, such as oxygen, specific regulatory requirements applicable to asbestos, lead-based paints, polychlorinated biphenyls and mold, other occupational hazards associated with our workplaces, and providing notice to employees and members of the public about our use and storage of regulated or hazardous materials and wastes. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to fines, penalties and increased operational costs. Moreover, changes in existing requirements or more stringent enforcement of them, as well as discovery of currently unknown conditions at our owned or leased facilities, could result in additional cost and potential liabilities, including liability for conducting cleanup, and there can be no guarantee that such increased expenditures would not be significant. Risks Relating to Our Operations Our substantial indebtedness, scheduled maturities, lease obligations and disruptions in the U.S. and global financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing or to extend or refinance debt as it matures, which could negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and the market price of our common stock. We have now and will for the foreseeable future continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness and lease obligations. At December 31, 2018, our total indebtedness was approximately $1.2 billion, excluding debt issuance costs and other non-cash debt 27 Table of Contents discounts and premiums, and our total lease obligations are $12.5 billion. Our substantial indebtedness and lease obligations could have important consequences. For example, it could: increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and lease obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or lease obligations; increase the cost or limit the availability of additional financing, if needed or desired, to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan; require us to maintain debt coverage and financial ratios at specified levels, reducing our financial flexibility; and limit our ability to make strategic acquisitions and develop new or expanded facilities. Our ability to service our financial obligations, in addition to our ability to comply with the financial and restrictive covenants contained in our leases and loans is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to attain a sustainable capital structure. We have recently restructured agreements with certain of our landlord and lenders in an effort to attain a sustainable capital structure. However, there can be no assurance that the reduction in our annual fixed charges that we have projected in connection with such restructuring will be realized or will be sufficient to sustain us in the event our business suffers from further reductions in occupancy and/or inflation in costs continues to outpace the rate of third party reimbursement rate growth. If we are unable to extend (or refinance, as applicable) any of our maturing credit facilities prior to their scheduled maturity or accelerated maturity dates, our liquidity and financial condition will be adversely impacted. In addition, even if we are able to extend or refinance our maturing debt credit facilities, the terms of the new financing may be less favorable to us than the terms of the existing financing. Much of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates and/or payment in kind features. Changes in interest rates or discontinuation of payment in kind terms could result in increased interest payments, and accordingly, reduce our future earnings and cash flows limiting our ability to obtain additional financing. Payment in kind terms defer cash payment obligations until maturity of the debt instrument. Such a feature increases the debt obligation due at maturity, which could make it difficult to obtain additional financing. Our lease obligations often include annual fixed rent escalators ranging between 2.0% and 2.5% or variable rent escalators based on a consumer price index. These contractual obligation increases may outpace any increase in our results of our operations placing an additional burden on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position. Such a burden could limit our ability to obtain additional financing. In recent years, the United States stock and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing (including any refinancing or extension of our existing debt) on reasonable terms, which may negatively affect our business. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to further adjust our business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital, including through the issuance of common stock. Disruptions in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on us and our 28 Table of Contents business. If we are not able to obtain additional or replacement financing on favorable terms, we also may have to delay or abandon some or all of our growth strategies, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We lease a significant number of our facilities and may experience risks relating to lease termination, lease expense escalators, lease extensions and special charges. We face risks because of the number of facilities we lease. As of December 31, 2018, we leased approximately 84% of our centers; 55% were leased pursuant to master lease agreements with five landlords. The loss or deterioration of a favorable relationship with any of such landlords may adversely affect our business. Each of our lease agreements provides that the lessor may terminate the lease, subject to applicable cure provisions, for a number of reasons, including, the defaults in any payment of rent, taxes or other payment obligations or the breach of any other covenant or agreement in the lease. Termination of certain of our lease agreements could result in a cross-default under our debt agreements or other lease agreements. Our lease obligations often include annual fixed rent escalators ranging between 2.0% and 2.5% or variable rent escalators based on a consumer price index. These escalators could impact our ability to satisfy certain obligations and covenants, specifically coverage ratios. If the results of our operations do not increase at or above the escalator rates, it would place an additional burden on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position. Our annual rent escalators are oftentimes outpacing our annual reimbursement escalators. This issue is compounded by the shift in payor mix to lower reimbursed Medicaid. Our leases generally provide for renewal or extension options. There can be no assurance that these rights will be exercised in the future or that we will be able to satisfy the conditions precedent to exercising any such renewal or extension. In addition, if we are unable to renew or extend any of our master leases, we may lose all of the facilities subject to that master lease agreement. If we are not able to renew or extend our leases at or prior to the end of the existing lease terms, or if the terms of such options are unfavorable or unacceptable to us, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. Leasing facilities pursuant to master lease agreements may limit our ability to exit markets. For instance, if one facility under a master lease becomes unprofitable, we may be required to continue operating such facility or, if allowed by the landlord to close such facility, we may remain obligated for the lease payments on such facility. We could incur special charges relating to the closing of such facility, including lease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our profits and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our failure to pay the rent or otherwise comply with the provisions of any of our lease agreements could result in an event of default under such lease agreement and also could result in a cross default under other master lease agreements and agreements for our indebtedness. Upon an event of default, remedies available to our landlords generally include, without limitation, terminating such lease agreement, repossessing and reletting the leased properties and requiring us to remain liable for all obligations under such lease agreement, including the difference between the rent under such lease agreement and the rent payable as a result of reletting the leased properties, or requiring us to pay the net present value of the rent due for the balance of the term of such lease agreement. The exercise of such remedies would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to numerous covenants and requirements under our various credit and leasing agreements and a breach of any such covenants or requirements could, unless timely and effectively remediated, lead to default and potential cross default under such agreements. Our credit and leasing agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable loans and leases, in addition to any other indebtedness or leases cross-defaulted against such instruments. These defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur more debt. This could intensify the risks associated with this indebtedness. The terms of our credit facilities contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these exceptions could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. The more we become leveraged, the more we become exposed to the risks described above under Our substantial indebtedness, scheduled maturities, lease obligations and disruptions in the U.S. and global financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing or to extend or refinance debt as it matures, which could negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and the market price of our common stock. Our credit and leasing agreements may restrict our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. The terms of our credit and leasing agreements include a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; consolidate or merge; make or incur capital improvements; sell assets; and make investments, loans and acquisitions. These restrictions could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other opportunities. Floating rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase. We have significant indebtedness in multiple instruments that bear interest at variable rates. Interest rate changes could affect the amount of our interest payments, and accordingly, our future earnings and cash flows, assuming other factors are held constant. As a result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources for a description of the types and level of indebtedness. We may be adversely affected by changes in the method of determining LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate. In 2017, the United Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority announced that after 2021 it would no longer compel banks to submit the rates required to calculate the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). This announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021. We have a significant number of debt instruments with attributes that are dependent on LIBOR. The transition from LIBOR to an alternative reference rate could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We are presently operating under waivers of certain of our master leases. There can be no assurance such waivers will be received in future periods. In the event future waivers are not extended and our creditors accelerate our loan and lease obligations, it would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2018, we did not meet certain of the financial covenants contained under a number of our significant lease agreements. Although we have received waivers with our counterparties to these agreements related to our breach of financial covenants at December 31, 2018, there can be no assurance such waivers will be received in future periods. If future defaults are not 30 Table of Contents cured within applicable cure periods, if any, and if waivers or other forms of relief are not obtained, the defaults can cause acceleration of our financial obligations, which we may not be in a position to satisfy. In the event this occurs and we are unable to satisfy an acceleration of our financial obligations, we may be forced to seek reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Significant legal actions, which are commonplace in our industry, could subject us to increased operating costs, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and reputation. The long-term care industry has experienced an increasing trend in the number and severity of litigation claims. We believe that this trend is endemic to the industry and is a result of a variety of factors, including the number of large verdicts, including large punitive damage awards, against long-term care providers in recent years resulting in an increased awareness by plaintiffs' lawyers of potentially large recoveries. While some states have enacted tort reform legislation that limits plaintiffs' recoveries in some respects, should our professional liability and general liability costs increase significantly in the future our operating income could suffer. We also may be subject to lawsuits under the FCA and comparable state laws for submitting allegedly fraudulent or otherwise inappropriate bills for services to the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These lawsuits, which may be initiated by government authorities as well as private party relators, can involve significant monetary damages, fines, attorney fees and the award of bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits, as well as to the government programs. In recent years, government oversight and law enforcement have become increasingly active and aggressive in investigating and taking legal action against potential fraud and abuse. See Note 22 - Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings , in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for pending litigation and investigations which, based upon information currently available, could have a potentially material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We may incur significant liabilities in conjunction with legal actions against us, including as a result of damages, fines and penalties that may be assessed against us, as well as a result of the sometimes significant commitments of financial and management resources that are often required to defend against such legal actions. The incurrence of such liabilities and related commitments of resources could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance coverages, including professional liability coverage, may become increasingly expensive and difficult to obtain for healthcare companies, and our self-insurance may expose us to significant losses. It may become more difficult and costly for us to obtain coverage for patient care liabilities and certain other risks, including property and casualty insurance. Insurance carriers may require healthcare companies to increase significantly their self-insured retention levels and/or pay substantially higher premiums for reduced coverage for most insurance coverages, including workers' compensation, employee healthcare and patient care liability. We self-insure a significant portion of our potential liabilities for several risks, including certain types of professional and general liability, workers' compensation and employee healthcare benefits. Due to our self-insured retentions under many of our professional and general liability, workers' compensation and employee healthcare benefits programs, there is no limit on the maximum number of claims or amount for which we can be liable in any policy period. We base our loss estimates and related accruals on actuarial analyses, which determine expected liabilities on an undiscounted basis, including incurred but not reported losses, based upon the available information on a given date. It is possible, however, for the ultimate amount of losses to exceed our estimates and related accruals, as well as our insurance limits as applicable. In the event our actual liability exceeds our estimates for any given period, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Additionally, we may from time to time need to increase our accruals as a result of future actuarial reviews and claims that may develop. Such increases could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. An adverse determination in legal proceedings, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the acuity mix of patients as well as payor mix and payment methodologies may significantly reduce our profitability or cause us to incur losses. Our revenue is affected by our ability to attract a favorable patient acuity mix and by our mix of payment sources. Changes in the type of patients we attract, as well as our payor mix among private payors, managed care companies, Medicare (both traditional Medicare and Medicare Advantage) and Medicaid significantly affect our profitability because not all payors reimburse us at the same rates. Particularly, if we fail to maintain our proportion of high-acuity patients or if there is any significant increase in the percentage of 31 Table of Contents our population for which we receive Medicaid reimbursement, our financial position, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. Furthermore, in recent periods we have continued to see a shift from traditional FFS Medicare patients to Medicare Advantage patients. Reimbursement rates are generally lower for services provided to Medicare Advantage patients than they are for the same services provided to traditional FFS Medicare patients. This trend may continue in future periods. Our financial results have been negatively affected by this shift to date. Our financial results will continue to be negatively affected if the trend towards Medicare Advantage continues, and particularly if it accelerates. Federal, state and local employment-related laws and regulations could increase our cost of doing business and subject us to significant back pay awards, fines and lawsuits. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local employment-related laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, the Family Medical Leave Act, overtime pay, compensable time, recordkeeping and other working conditions, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the National Labor Relations Act, regulations of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, regulations of the Office of Civil Rights, regulations of the Department of Labor (DOL), regulations of state attorneys general, federal and state wage and hour laws, and a variety of similar laws enacted by the federal and state governments that govern these and other employment-related matters. Because labor represents such a large portion of our operating costs, compliance with these evolving federal and state laws and regulations could substantially increase our cost of doing business while failure to do so could subject us to significant back pay awards, fines and lawsuits. We are currently subject to employee-related claims in connection with our operations. These claims, lawsuits and proceedings are in various stages of adjudication or investigation and involve a wide variety of claims and potential outcomes. In addition, federal proposals to introduce a system of mandated health insurance and flexible work time and other similar initiatives could, if implemented, adversely affect our operations. Our failure to comply with federal and state employment-related laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. It can be difficult to attract and retain qualified nurses, therapists, healthcare professionals and other key personnel, which, along with a growing number of minimum wage and compensation related regulations, can increase our costs related to these employees. Our employees are our most important asset. We rely on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare professionals. The market for these key personnel is highly competitive, and we could experience significant increases in our operating costs due to shortages in their availability. Like other healthcare providers, we have at times experienced difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, especially center executive directors, nurses, therapists, certified nurses' aides and other important healthcare personnel. We may continue to experience increases in our labor costs, primarily due to higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified healthcare personnel, and such increases may adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, while we attempt to manage overall labor costs in the most efficient way, our efforts to manage them through wage freezes and similar means may have limited effectiveness and may lead to increased turnover and other challenges. Tight labor markets and high demand for such employees can contribute to high turnover among clinical professional staff. A shortage of qualified personnel at a facility could result in significant increases in labor costs and increased reliance on overtime and expensive temporary staffing agencies, and could otherwise adversely affect operations at the affected facilities. In addition, turnover of such employees will result in additional expenses related to recruiting and training replacement employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified professionals, our ability to provide adequate services to our residents and patients may decline and our ability to grow may be constrained. Our cost of labor may be influenced by unanticipated factors in certain markets or, with respect to collective bargaining agreements that we are a party to, we may experience above-market increases. A substantial number of our employees are hourly employees whose wage rates are affected by increases in the federal or state minimum wage rate. As collective bargaining agreements are renegotiated or minimum wage rates increase we may need to increase the wages paid to employees. This may be applicable to not only minimum wage employees but also to employees at wage rates which are currently above the minimum wage. The DOL adopted final rule changes to the Fair Labor Standards Act that would increase the minimum salary threshold for employees exempt from overtime along with an automatic annual increase to this salary threshold. A U.S. federal district court enjoined the DOL from implementing and enforcing these new rules, which were set to take effect on December 1, 2016. The DOL has since appealed the ruling. On August 31, 2017, a summary judgment against the DOL was granted invalidating the overtime rule in its 32 Table of Contents entirety. On October 30, 2017, the DOJ, on behalf of the DOL, appealed the summary judgment. The future of these new rules remains uncertain, but if these changes ultimately take effect, it could increase our cost of services provided. Because we are largely funded by government programs, we do not have an ability to pass such wage increases through to revenue sources. Any such mandated wage increases could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. If we are unable to comply with state minimum staffing requirements at one or more of our facilities, we could be subject to fines or other sanctions. In most of the states where we operate, our skilled nursing facilities are subject to state mandated staffing ratios that require minimum nursing hours of direct care per resident per day. Our ability to satisfy any minimum staffing requirements depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals, including nurses, certified nurse's assistants and other personnel. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel is difficult, given a tight labor market for these professionals in many of the markets in which we operate. Furthermore, if states do not appropriate additional funds (through Medicaid program appropriations or otherwise) sufficient to pay for any additional operating costs resulting from minimum staffing requirements, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. Failure to comply with these requirements can, among other things, jeopardize a facility's compliance with the Requirements for Participation under relevant state and federal healthcare programs. In addition, if a facility is determined to be out of compliance with these requirements, it may be subject to a notice of deficiency, a citation, or a significant fine or litigation risk. Deficiencies (depending on the level) may also result in the suspension of patient admissions and/or the termination of Medicaid participation, or the suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of the skilled nursing facility's license. If the federal or state governments were to issue regulations which materially change the way compliance with the minimum staffing standard is calculated or enforced, our labor costs could increase and the current shortage of healthcare workers could impact us more significantly. If we fail to attract patients and residents and to compete effectively with other healthcare providers, our revenue and profitability may decline and we may incur losses. The healthcare services industry is highly competitive. Our skilled nursing facilities compete primarily on a local and regional basis with other skilled nursing facilities and with assisted/senior living facilities, from national and regional chains to smaller providers owning as few as a single facility. Competitors include other for-profit providers as well as non-profits, religiously-affiliated facilities, and government-owned facilities. We also compete under certain circumstances with IRFs and LTAC hospitals. Increasingly, we are competing with home health and community based providers who have developed programs designed to provide services to seniors outside an institutional setting, extending the time period before they need the higher level of care provided in a skilled nursing facility. In addition, some competitors are implementing vertical alignment strategies, such as hospitals who provide long-term care services. Our ability to compete successfully varies from location to location and depends on a number of factors, including the number of competing facilities in the local market and the types of services available at those facilities, our local reputation for quality care of patients, the commitment and expertise of our caregivers, our local service offerings and treatment programs, the cost of care in each locality, and the physical appearance, location, age and condition of our facilities. If we are unable to attract patients, particularly high-acuity patients, to our facilities and agencies, our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. Some of our competitors may have greater recognition and be more established in their respective communities than we are, and may have greater financial and other resources than we have. Competing long-term care companies may also offer newer facilities or different programs or services than we do, which, combined with the foregoing factors, may result in our competitors being more attractive to our current patients, potential patients and referral sources. Furthermore, while we budget for routine capital expenditures at our facilities to keep them competitive in their respective markets, to the extent that competitive forces cause those expenditures to increase in the future, our financial condition may be negatively affected. We believe we adhere to a conservative approach in complying with laws prohibiting kickbacks and referral payments to referral sources. If our competitors use more aggressive methods than we do with respect to obtaining patient referrals, our competitors may from time to time obtain patient referrals that are not otherwise available to us. The primary competitive factors for our assisted/senior living and rehabilitation therapy services are similar to those for our skilled nursing businesses and include reputation, the cost of services, the quality of services, responsiveness to patient/resident needs and the ability to provide support in other areas such as third-party reimbursement, information management and patient recordkeeping. Furthermore, given the relatively low barriers to entry and continuing healthcare cost containment pressures, we expect that the markets 33 Table of Contents we service will become increasingly competitive in the future. Increased competition in the future could limit our ability to attract and retain patients and residents, maintain or increase our fees, or expand our business. If our referral sources fail to view us as an attractive healthcare provider, our patient base would likely decrease. We rely significantly on appropriate referrals from physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers in the communities in which we deliver our services to attract the kinds of patients we target. Our referral sources are not obligated to refer business to us and generally also refer business to other healthcare providers. We believe many of our referral sources refer business to us as a result of the quality of our patient care and our efforts to establish and build a relationship with them. If we lose, or fail to maintain, existing relationships with our referral resources, fail to develop new relationships or if we are perceived by our referral sources for any reason as not providing quality patient care, our volume of referrals would likely decrease, the quality of our patient mix could suffer and our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we do not achieve or maintain a reputation for providing quality of care, our business may be negatively affected. Our ability to achieve and to maintain a reputation for providing quality of care to our patients at each of our skilled nursing and assisted/senior living facilities, or through our rehabilitation therapy, is important to our ability to attract and retain patients, particularly high-acuity patients. In some instances, our referral sources are affiliated with healthcare systems that may have affiliated businesses that offer services that compete with ours, and the frequency of this occurring may increase in the future as ACOs are formed in the markets we serve. We believe that the perception of our quality of care by a potential patient or potential patient's family seeking to contract for our services is influenced by a variety of factors, including physician and other healthcare professional referrals, community information and referral services, newspapers and other print and electronic media, results of patient surveys, recommendations from family and friends, and quality care statistics or rating systems compiled and published by CMS or other industry data. Through our focus on retaining quality staffing, reviewing feedback and surveys from our patients and referral sources to highlight areas of improvement and integrating our service offerings at each of our facilities, we seek to maintain and to improve on the outcomes from each of the factors listed above in order to build and to maintain a strong reputation at our facilities. If we fail to achieve or to maintain a reputation for providing quality care, or are perceived to provide a lower quality of care than competitors within the same geographic area, our ability to attract and to retain patients would be adversely affected. If our businesses fail to maintain a strong reputation in the areas in which we operate, our business, revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. If we do not achieve and maintain competitive quality of care ratings from CMS and private organizations engaged in similar monitoring activities, or if the frequency of CMS surveys and enforcement sanctions increases, our business may be negatively affected. CMS, as well as certain private organizations engaged in similar monitoring activities, provides comparative data available to the public on its website, rating every skilled nursing facility operating in each state based upon quality of care indicators. These quality of care indicators include such measures as percentages of patients with infections, bedsores and unplanned weight loss. In addition, CMS previously increased the number of Medicaid and Medicare surveys and enforcement activities, to focus more survey and enforcement efforts on facilities with findings of substandard care or repeat violations of Medicaid and Medicare standards, and to require state agencies to use enforcement sanctions and remedies more promptly when substandard care or repeat violations are identified. We have found a correlation between negative Medicaid and Medicare surveys and the incidence of professional liability litigation. From time to time, we experience a higher than normal number of negative survey findings in some of our affiliated facilities. CMS publishes Star Ratings to help consumers, their families and caregivers compare nursing homes more easily. The Star Ratings give each nursing home a rating of between one and five stars for (i) staffing, (ii) health inspections, (iii) quality measures and (iv) overall score. In cases of acquisitions, the previous operator's clinical ratings are included in our overall Star Ratings. The prior operator's results will impact our rating until we have sufficient clinical measurements subsequent to the acquisition date. CMS from time to time revises the manner in which the Star Ratings are calculated, and such revisions could have a negative impact on our Star Ratings. If we are unable to achieve and to maintain Star Ratings that are comparable or superior to those of our competitors, our ability to attract and to retain patients could be adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. We produce our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, to help mitigate the risk of fraud and to operate successfully. We are required by federal securities laws to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Testing and maintaining our internal control over financial reporting can be expensive and divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with applicable law or if our independent registered public accounting firm does not issue an unqualified attestation report. See Item 9A . "