Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to assist in understanding and assessing the trends and significant changes in our results of operations and financial condition as of the dates and for the periods presented and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Item 1, Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. As used in this MD&A, the words we, our, us and the Company, and similar terms, refer collectively to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report, as well as the financial information and MD&A contained in our Annual Report (defined below). All statements included or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements contain words such as may, will, project, might, expect, believe, anticipate, intend, could, would, estimate, continue, pursue, plans or prospect, or the negative or other variations thereof or comparable terminology. They include, but are not limited to, statements about the Companys expectations and beliefs regarding its future operations and financial performance. Historical results may not indicate future performance. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events, and there can be no assurance that they will be achieved or occur, in whole or in part, in the timeframes anticipated by the Company or at all. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties that cannot be predicted or quantified and, consequently, the actual performance of the Company may differ materially from that expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, particularly in Item 1A, Risk Factors, which was filed with the SEC on March 16, 2020 (the Annual Report), and those discussed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2020, particularly in Item 1A Risk Factors, which was filed with the SEC on May 27, 2020 as well as others that are discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, natural disasters, general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operations, liquidity and stock price. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are made only as of the date of this report. The Company disclaims any obligation to update the forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Business Overview Genesis is a healthcare services holding company that, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities and a rehabilitation therapy business. We have an administrative services company that provides a full complement of administrative and consultative services that allows our affiliated operators and third-party operators with whom we contract to better focus on delivery of healthcare services. At June 30, 2020, we provided inpatient services through 361 skilled nursing, senior/assisted living and behavioral health centers located in 25 states. Revenues of our owned, leased and otherwise consolidated inpatient businesses constitute approximately 87% of our revenues. We also provide a range of rehabilitation therapy services, including speech pathology, physical therapy, occupational therapy and respiratory therapy. These services are provided by rehabilitation therapists and assistants employed or contracted at substantially all of the centers operated by us, as well as by contract to healthcare facilities operated by others. After the elimination of intercompany revenues, the rehabilitation therapy services business constitutes approximately 10% of our revenues. We provide an array of other specialty medical services, including management services, physician services, staffing services, and other healthcare related services, which comprise the balance of our revenues. Going Concern Considerations On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic. COVID-19 is a complex and previously unknown virus which disproportionately impacts older adults, particularly those having other underlying health conditions. 44 Table of Contents Our primary focus as the effects of COVID-19 began to impact the United States was the health and safety of our patients, residents, employees and their respective families. We implemented various measures to provide the safest possible environment within our sites of service during this pandemic and will continue to do so. The United States broadly continues to experience the pandemic caused by COVID-19, which has significantly disrupted, and likely will continue to disrupt for some period, the nations economy, the healthcare industry and our businesses. The rapid spread of the virus has led to the implementation of various responses, including federal, state and local government-imposed quarantines, shelter-in-place mandates, sweeping restrictions on travel, and substantial changes to selected protocols within the healthcare system across the United States. A significant number of our facilities and operations are geographically located and highly concentrated in markets with close proximity to areas of the United States that have experienced widespread and severe COVID-19 outbreaks. COVID-19 is having and will likely continue to have a material and adverse effect on our operations and supply chains, resulting in a reduction in our operating occupancy and related revenues, and an increase in our expenditures. We performed an assessment to determine whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date the financial statements are issued. Initially, this assessment does not consider the potential mitigating effect of managements plans that have not been fully implemented. When substantial doubt exists, management assesses the mitigating effect of our plans to determine if it is probable that (1) the plans will be effectively implemented within one year after the date the financial statements are issued, and (2) when implemented, the plans will mitigate the relevant conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entitys ability to continue as a going concern. In completing our going concern assessment, we considered the uncertainties around the impact of COVID-19 on our future results of operations as well as our current financial condition and liquidity sources, including current funds available, forecasted future cash flows and our conditional and unconditional obligations due within 12 months following the date our financial statements were issued. Without giving effect to the prospect, timing and adequacy of future governmental funding support and other mitigating plans, many of which are beyond our control, it is unlikely that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our required financial obligations, including our rent obligations, our debt service obligations and other obligations due to third parties. The existence of these conditions raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. In response to COVID-19, we have taken the following measures to improve our liquidity position: We applied for and received government-sponsored financial relief related to the pandemic; We are utilizing the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act of 2020 (CARES Act) payroll tax deferral program to delay payment of a portion of payroll taxes incurred through December 2020, with 50% to be repaid in December 2021 and the remaining 50% to be repaid in December 2022; While we vigorously advocate, for ourself and the skilled nursing industry, regarding the need for additional government sponsored funding, we continue to explore and take advantage of existing government sponsored funding programs implemented to support businesses impacted by COVID-19; We continue to implement measures to adapt successfully our operational model to function for the long-term in a COVID-19 environment; and We have pursued, and will continue to pursue, creative and accretive opportunities to sell assets and enter into joint venture structures in order to provide liquidity. These measures and other plans and initiatives of ours are designed to provide us with adequate liquidity to meet our obligations for at least the twelve-month period following the date our financial statements are issued. However, such plans and initiatives are dependent on factors that are beyond our control or may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Accordingly, management determined it could not be certain that the plans and initiatives would be effectively implemented within one year after the date the financial statements are issued. Further, even if we receive additional funding support from government sources and/or are able to execute successfully all of our plans and initiatives, given the current challenging environment our operating plans and resulting cash flows along with our cash and cash equivalents and other sources of liquidity may not be sufficient to fund operations for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued, which could force us to seek reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 45 Table of Contents Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. As such, the accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of assets and their carrying amounts, or the amount and classification of liabilities that may result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Significant Transactions and Events COVID-19 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has stated that older adults, such as our patients, are at a higher risk for serious illness and death from COVID-19 due to the prevalence of chronic medical conditions. In addition, our employees are at higher risk of contracting or spreading the disease due to the nature of the work environment when caring for patients. In an effort to prevent the introduction of COVID-19 into our facilities, and to help control further exposure to infections within communities, we have implemented policies restricting visitors at all of our facilities except for essential healthcare personnel and certain end-of-life situations. We also implemented policies for screening employees and anyone permitted to enter the building, implemented in-room only dining, activities programming and therapy. Upon confirmation of a positive COVID-19 exposure at a facility, our policy is to follow government guidance to minimize further exposure, including implementing personal protection protocols, restricting new admissions, and isolating patients. Due to the vulnerable nature of our patients, we expect many of these restrictions will continue at our facilities, even as federal, state, and local stay-at-home and social distancing orders and recommendations are relaxed. Notwithstanding these restrictions and our other response efforts, the virus has had, and likely will continue to have, introduction to, and transmission within, certain facilities due to the easily transmissible nature of COVID-19. COVID-19 has materially and adversely affected our operations and supply chains, resulting in a reduction in our operating occupancy and related revenues, and an increase in our expenditures. Although the ultimate impact of the pandemic remains uncertain, the following disclosures serve to outline the estimated impact of COVID-19 on our business through June 30, 2020, as well as further developments through the filing date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the impact of emergency legislation, temporary changes to regulations and reimbursements issued in response to COVID-19. Operations Our first report of a positive case of COVID-19 in one of our facilities occurred on March 16, 2020. Since that time, 241 of the our 361 facilities have experienced one or more positive cases of COVID-19 among patients and residents. Over 77% of the patient and resident positive COVID-19 cases in our facilities have occurred in the states of New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Maryland, which correspond to many of the largest community outbreak areas across the country. Our facilities in these five states represent 45% of its total operating beds. Despite the unprecedented challenges facing our operations, we reported that of the 897 focused infection control surveys conducted during the pandemic by state and federal officials at our centers, 94% achieved a zero deficiency rate. Our occupancy decreased in the early months of the pandemic following the efforts by referring hospitals to cancel or reschedule elective procedures in anticipation of an increasing number of COVID-19 cases in their communities. As the pandemic progressed, occupancy was further decreased by, among other things, implementation of self-imposed admission holds in facilities having exposure to positive cases of COVID-19 among patients, residents and employees. These self-imposed restrictions on admissions were instituted to limit risks of potential spread of the virus by individuals that either tested positive for COVID-19, exhibited symptoms of COVID-19 but had not yet been tested positive due to a severe shortage of testing materials, or were asymptomatic of COVID-19 but potentially positive and contagious. 46 Table of Contents Net Revenues Our net revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 were materially impacted by a significant decline in occupancy as a result of COVID-19. Our skilled nursing facility operating occupancy decreased from 88.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 to 77.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2020. However, the revenue lost from the decline in occupancy was partially offset by incremental state sponsored funding programs, changes in payor mix, and the enactment of COVID-19 relief programs, as discussed below. See Industry Trends and Recent Regulatory Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue - COVID-19 Regulatory and Reimbursement Relief. After considering a commensurate reduction in operating expenses, we estimate lost revenue caused by COVID-19 decreased earnings by approximately $67.0 million and $74.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, respectively. The impact of COVID-19 on our occupancy and net revenues for the remainder of 2020 will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the pace of recovery in occupancy, the future scope and severity of COVID-19 and the actions taken by public and private entities in response to the pandemic. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 were materially and adversely impacted due to increases in costs as a result of the pandemic, with more dramatic increases occurring at facilities with positive COVID-19 cases among patients, residents and employees. During the three months and six months ended June 30, 2020, we estimate we incurred approximately $145.3 million and $152.5 million, respectively, of incremental operating expenses to prepare for and respond to the pandemic. Increases in cost primarily stemmed from higher labor costs, including increased use of overtime and bonus pay, as well as a significant increase in both the cost and usage of personal protective equipment, medical equipment, food service supplies for staff, enhanced cleaning and environmental sanitation costs, the impact of utilizing less efficient modes of providing therapy in order to avoid the grouping of patients and workers compensation expense. We are not reasonably able to predict the total amount of costs we will incur related to the pandemic and to what extent such incremental costs can be reduced or will be borne by or offset by actions taken by public and private entities in response to the pandemic. Strategic Partnerships Vantage Point Partnership On January 10, 2020, Welltower, Inc. (Welltower) sold the real estate of one skilled nursing facility located in Massachusetts to the Vantage Point Partnership. The sale represents the final component of a transaction that occurred on September 12, 2019, whereby we acquired an approximately 30% membership interest in the partnership, which acquired the real estate of 18 facilities previously leased from Welltower and Second Spring Healthcare Investments (Second Spring). As a result of the January 10, 2020 transaction, we will receive an annual rent credit of $0.7 million from Welltower and recorded a gain of $0.2 million as a result of the lease termination. The Vantage Point Partnership acquired this skilled nursing facility for a purchase price of $9.1 million. The consolidation of this additional skilled nursing facility primarily resulted in property and equipment of $9.1 million, non-recourse debt of $7.3 million with the balance of the purchase price settled primarily with proceeds held in escrow from the September 12, 2019 closing. We operate all 19 facilities owned by the Vantage Point Partnership. NewGen Partnership On February 1, 2020, we transitioned operational responsibility for 19 facilities in the states of California, Washington and Nevada to a partnership with New Generation Health, LLC (the NewGen Partnership). We sold the real estate and operations of six skilled nursing facilities and transferred the operations to 13 skilled nursing, behavioral health and assisted living facilities for $78.7 million. Net transaction proceeds were used by us to repay indebtedness, including prepayment penalties, of $33.7 million, fund our initial 50% equity contribution and working capital requirement of $14.9 million, and provide financing to the partnership of $9.0 million. We recorded a gain on sale of assets and transition of leased facilities of $58.8 million and loss on early extinguishment of debt of $1.0 million. Concurrently, the facilities have entered, or will enter upon regulatory approval, into management services agreements with NewGen for the day-to-day operations of the facilities. We will continue to provide administrative and back office services to the facilities pursuant to administrative support agreements, as well as therapy services pursuant to therapy services 47 Table of Contents agreements. We do not hold a controlling financial interest in the NewGen Partnership. As such, we have applied the equity method of accounting for our 50% interest in the NewGen Partnership. Our investment in the NewGen Partnership, $20.5 million, is included within other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2020. On May 15, 2020, we transitioned operational responsibility for four additional leased facilities in the state of California to the NewGen Partnership. The four facilities generated annual revenues of $55.0 million and pre-tax loss of $0.5 million. Subsequent to May 15, 2020, we have applied the equity method of accounting for our 50% interest in these operations. CCGEN Partnership On July 2, 2020, we sold one facility to Cascade Capital Group, LLC (Cascade) for $26.1 million. Cascade also acquired eight facilities from Second Spring that we operated under a master lease agreement. We will continue to operate all nine of these facilities under a new master lease agreement with Cascade. The initial lease term is 10 years with one five-year renewal option available. Initial annual base rent will be $20.7 million. We hold a purchase option to acquire the nine facilities exercisable between the fourth and fifth lease year for a fixed price of $251.6 million. We executed a promisory note agreeing to pay Cascade $20.3 million. The promissory note represents capital we will contribute into a planned partnership with Cascade (CCGen Partnership). Once the requisite regulatory approvals are received, the prommisory note will be converted into a 49% membership interest in the CCGen Partnership. Divestiture of Non-Strategic Facilities On January 31, 2020, Omega Healthcare Investors, Inc. (Omega) sold the real estate of one skilled nursing facility located in Massachusetts. We leased the facility under a master lease agreement but closed the facility on July 1, 2019. The sale resulted in a gain on the lease termination of $0.2 million and an annual rent credit of $0.4 million. On February 1, 2020, we sold two owned skilled nursing facilities in North Carolina and one owned skilled nursing facility in Maryland for $61.8 million. Proceeds were used to retire $29.1 million of U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) financed debt. The three facilities generated revenues of $38.7 million and pre-tax income of $0.5 million. The transactions resulted in a gain on sale of $24.5 million and loss on early extinguishment of debt of $2.6 million. On February 26, 2020, we completed the sale of one owned HUD-insured skilled nursing facility in California for $20.8 million. The facility had been classified as an asset held for sale as of December 31, 2019. Proceeds were used to retire $20.5 million of HUD financed debt. The facility generated revenues of $14.0 million and pre-tax loss of $0.1 million. See Note 14 Assets Held for Sale . The transactions resulted in a gain on sale of $3.0 million and loss on early extinguishment of debt of $0.4 million. On March 4, 2020, we divested the operations of one leased assisted/senior living facility in Montana. The lease termination resulted in an annual rent credit of $0.7 million. The facility generated revenues of $2.5 million and pre-tax income of $0.1 million. On April 1, 2020, we sold two owned skilled nursing facilities in New Jersey and one owned skilled nursing facility in Maryland for $45.8 million. Proceeds were used to retire $15.2 million of HUD financed debt and $7.5 million of MidCap Real Estate Loans. The three facilities generated annual revenues of $35.8 million and pre-tax income was de minimis. The transactions resulted in a gain on sale of $21.8 million and loss on early extinguishment of debt of $1.4 million. On April 1, 2020, we divested the operations and terminated the lease of two skilled nursing facilties in Montana. The two facilities generated annual revenues of $18.8 million and pre-tax income of $0.4 million. The lease termination resulted in an annual rent credit of $1.1 million. On April 20, 2020, we divested the operations of four skilled nursing facilities in Florida and two skilled nursing facilities in Maryland that were subject to a master lease with Second Spring. The six facilities generated annual revenues of $62.0 million and pre-tax loss of $2.3 million. The lease termination resulted in a net annual rent credit of $8.5 million. On June 1, 2020, we divested the operations of four leased skilled nursing facilities in Idaho that were subject to a master lease with Omega. The four facilities generated annual revenues of $19.5 million and pre-tax income of $0.1 million. The lease termination resulted in an annual rent credit of $1.4 million. 48 Table of Contents On July 6, 2020, we sold a skilled nursing facility in Rhode Island for $10.5 million. Proceeds were used to retire $5.5 million of MidCap Real Estate Loans. The facility generated annual revenues of $9.9 million and pre-tax income of $0.2 million. The facility was classified as held for sale as of June 30, 2020. See Note 14 Assets Held For Sale . Industry Trends and Recent Regulatory Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue COVID-19 Regulatory and Reimbursement Relief On March 18, 2020, the Families First Coronavirus Response Act was enacted, which provided a temporary 6.2% increase to each qualifying states Medicaid Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) effective January 1, 2020. The temporary FMAP increase will extend through the last day of the calendar quarter of the COVID-19 public health emergency declared by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), including any extensions or termination, which currently expires October 25, 2020. As part of the requirements for receiving the temporary FMAP increase, states must cover testing services and treatments for COVID-19 and may not impose deductibles, copayments, coinsurance or other cost sharing charges for any quarter in which the temporarily increased FMAP is claimed. Further, a number of additional states in which we operate have implemented incremental FMAP related reimbursement provisions and other forms of support to assist providers. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, we recognized as net revenues in the consolidated statements of operations of $40.2 million and $45.7 million, respectively, of additional FMAP reimbursement relief. We cannot predict the extent to which further FMAP funding programs will be implemented in the states in which we operate. In further response to the pandemic, on March 27, 2020, the President signed into law the bipartisan CARES Act. The CARES Act allocates $100 billion to a Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund to reimburse, through grants or other mechanisms, eligible health care providers for health care related expenses or lost revenues that are attributable to coronavirus. Nursing facility operators participating in Medicare and Medicaid may be eligible to receive compensation for costs incurred in the course of providing medical services, such as those related to obtaining personal protective equipment, COVID-19 related testing supplies, and increased staffing or training, provided that such costs are not compensated by another source. The secretary of the HHS has broad authority and discretion to determine payment eligibility and the amount of such payments. Further, the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act was signed into law on April 24, 2020. Congress appropriated $75.0 billion for healthcare providers through the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act. HHS is distributing this money through the Provider Relief Fund, and these payments do not need to be repaid. While we believe that the relief funds received by us to date under the CARES Act have primarily benefited Medicare providers as opposed to Medicaid providers and have provided limited support to our rehabilitation therapy services segment, we cannot predict the extent to which any of our businesses will receive any such additional funds, and to what extent the financial impact of receiving such funds would effectively offset any shortfall in funds received to date as compared to the escalation in our costs and lost revenue as a result of the broad implications of the pandemic. We were impacted by certain provisions of the CARES Act, as summarized below. Temporary suspension of certain patient coverage criteria and documentation and care requirements . The CARES Act and a series of temporary waivers and guidance issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) suspend various Medicare patient coverage criteria as well as certain documentation and care requirements. These accommodations are intended to ensure patients have access to care notwithstanding the burdens placed on healthcare providers due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe these regulatory actions could contribute to an increase in census volumes and skilled mix that may not otherwise have occurred, but cannot provide any assurance as to the impact on our businesses. Relief Funds. During April and May 2020, we received $185.5 million of relief grants from CARES Act funds administered by the HHS. The grants are primarily related to the skilled nursing care provided through the Companys Inpatient Services segment. Grants received are subject to the terms and conditions of the program, including that such funds may only be used to prevent, prepare for, and respond to COVID-19 and will reimburse only for health care related expenses or lost revenues that are attributable to COVID-19. HHS continues to evaluate and provide allocations of, and issue regulation and guidance regarding, grants made under the CARES Act. Our relief funds payments are accounted for as government grants, which are recognized on a systematic and rational basis as other income once there is reasonable assurance that the applicable terms and conditions required to retain the funds will be met. We recognize grants once both of the following 49 Table of Contents conditions are met: (1) we are able to comply with the relevant conditions of the grant and (2) the grant will be received. The terms and conditions note that the relief funds received can be used for health care related expenses or lost revenues that are attributable to COVID-19. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, we recognized the entire amount of relief grants received within the Federal stimulus COVID-19 other income caption in the consolidated statements of operations. On June 9, 2020 as part of its ongoing efforts to provide financial relief to healthcare providers impacted by COVID-19, HHS announced the Phase 2 general distribution to Medicaid, Medicaid managed care, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and dental providers. HHS anticipates distributing approximately $15.0 billion to eligible providers that participate in state Medicaid and CHIP programs that did not receive a payment from the Provider Relief Fund General Allocation (Phase 1). Eligible applicants will receive 2% of Gross Revenues from Patient Care for calendar years 2017, 2018 or 2019 as selected by applicant. Applications have been submitted for four assisted living facilities which meet the eligibility criteria. On July 22, 2020, President Trump announced that an additional $5.0 billion of the Provider Relief Program funds will be allocated to Medicare-certified long term care facilities and state veterans homes (nursing homes), to build nursing home skills and enhance nursing homes response to COVID-19, including enhanced infection control. On August 7, 2020, HHS provided additional details indicating the $5 billion distribution will provide approximately $2.5 billion in upfront funding to support increased testing, staffing and personal protective equipment needs. There will also be funding available to providers who establish COVID-19 isolation facilities. At this time, we have insufficient information to estimate the amount or timing of such distributions. Medicare Accelerated and Advanced Payment Program. During the three months ended June 30, 2020, we applied for and received $156.8 million of advanced Medicare payments. The payments represent interest-free advances on future services to be provided to Medicare patients between August 2020 and November 2020. The advanced Medicare payments represent contract liabilities that are reported within accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2020. The $156.8 million in contract liabilities will be subsequently recouped over time as revenue is recognized for claims submitted for services provided to Medicare patients between August 2020 and November 2020. If there is a remaining balance owed after this period, we are required to repay the remaining advance. Payroll Tax Deferral . Under the CARES Act, we have elected to defer payment, on an interest free basis, of the employer portion of social security payroll taxes incurred from March 27, 2020 to December 31, 2020. One-half of such deferral amount will become due on each of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2022. We have presented the balance of deferred payroll taxes, $35.7 million, within other long term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2020. We estimate the total payroll tax deferral through December 31, 2020 to approximate $90 million. Temporary Suspension of Medicare Sequestration . The Budget Control Act of 2011 requires a mandatory, across the board reduction in federal spending, called a sequestration. Medicare fee for service claims with dates of service or dates of discharge on or after April 1, 2013 incur a 2.0% reduction in Medicare payments. All Medicare rate payments and settlements have incurred this mandatory reduction and it will continue to remain in place through at least 2023, unless Congress takes further action. In response to COVID-19, the CARES Act temporarily suspended the automatic 2.0% reduction of Medicare claim reimbursements for the period of May 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, the suspension of sequestration resulted in net revenues of approximately $2.0 million. We estimate the total increase in our revenue due to the suspension of sequestration for 2020 to be approximately $8.0 million. Employee Retention Tax Credit. The employer payroll tax credit provisions of the CARES Act grant eligible companies a credit against applicable payroll taxes for each calendar quarter in an amount equal to 50% of qualified wages with a maximum credit of $5,000 per employee. The refundable tax credit is available to employers that fully or partially suspend operations during any calendar quarter in 2020 due to orders from an appropriate governmental authority limiting commerce, travel, or group meetings due to COVID-19. Qualified employees are those who are not providing services as a result of such orders of a government authority. The impact of the employee retention tax credit program was not material for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020. 50 Table of Contents COVID-19 Testing Requirements On July 14, 2020, HHS announced rapid point-of-care diagnostic testing devices will be distributed to nursing homes to assist in testing. CMS will also begin requiring, rather than recommending, that all nursing homes in states with a 5% positivity rate or greater test all nursing home staff each week. It is hoped that this new staff testing requirement will enhance efforts to keep the virus from entering and spreading through nursing homes by identifying asymptomatic carriers. At this time, we cannot predict the extent to which any of our businesses will receive any such additional funds to reimburse us for this additional testing, and to what extent the financial impact of receiving such funds would effectively offset any shortfall in funds resulting from the performance of this testing. COVID-19 Reporting Requirements On April 19, 2020, CMS announced new regulatory requirements that will require skilled nursing homes to report cases of COVID-19 directly to the CDC. This information must be reported in accordance with existing privacy regulations and statues. In addition, skilled nursing homes are required to inform residents, their families and representatives of COVID-19 cases in their facilities; this notification is required to take place by 5 PM the next calendar day following the occurrence of a single confirmed infection of COVID-19, or of three or more residents or staff with new-onset of respiratory symptoms that occur within 72 hours of one another. Further, the CDC will be providing a reporting tool to skilled nursing homes that will support Federal efforts to collect nationwide data to assist in COVID-19 surveillance and response. There could be civil monetary penalties for not meeting these reporting requirements. On April 30, 2020, CMS announced that it would be convening an independent commission to conduct comprehensive assessments of nursing home responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. The commission will consist of skilled nursing facility residents, families, resident/patient advocates, industry experts, clinicians, medical ethicists, administrators, academicians, infection control and prevention professionals, state and local authorities, and other experts. The commission is expected to develop recommendations specific to (1) protecting residents from COVID-19 and improving the responsiveness of care delivery; (2) strengthening regulations to enable rapid and effective identification and mitigation of COVID-19 transmissions in nursing homes; and (3) enhancing enforcement strategies to improve compliance with infection control policies. Recommendations from the commission will be delivered to CMS and may be incorporated into the regulatory framework applicable to nursing facilities. Provider Relief Fund Reporting Requirement On July 20, 2020, HHS informed Provider Relief Fund (PRF) recipients that received one or more payments exceeding $10,000 in the aggregate from the PRF of the timing of future reporting requirements. The reports shall be in such form, with such content, as specified by the Secretary of HHS in future program instructions directed to all recipients and will provide directions on reporting obligations. The reporting system will become available to recipients for reporting on October 1, 2020. All recipients must report within 45 days of the end of calendar year 2020 on their expenditures through the period ending December 31, 2020. Recipients who have expended funds in full prior to December 31, 2020 may submit a single final report at any time during the window that begins October 1, 2020, but no later than February 15, 2021. Recipients with funds unexpended after December 31, 2020, must submit a second and final report no later than July 31, 2021. Provider Relief Fund Single Audit Requirement HHS indicates that PRF payments will be subject to the Office of Management and Budget Single Audit process, which requires an organization-wide audit of an entity that expends $750,000 or more of federal assistance. The objective of the Single Audit is to provide assurance that federal funds are used appropriately. PRF payments are required to be included in determining if a recipient that is a commercial (for profit) organization is required to have an audit if reported annual total federal funds received are equal to or above $750,000. Audit reports of commercial entities are to be submitted directly to HHS, Audit Resolution Division. 51 Table of Contents Final Rule - Medicare Annual Market Basket for Fiscal Year 2021 On July 31, 2020, CMS issued a final rule providing a net market basket increase for skilled nursing facilities of 2.2 percent beginning October 1, 2020. This market basket update reflects a full market basket increase of 2.2 percentage points, no forecast error correction and no multifactor productivity adjustment. CMS estimates that the net market basket update would increase Medicare skilled nursing facility payments by approximately $750 million in fiscal year 2021. Proposed Rule Physician Fee Schedule On August 3, 2020, CMS issued a proposed rule to revise payment policies under the Medicare physician fee schedule and makes other policy changes related to Medicare Part B payment on or after January 1, 2021. The revised payment policies, as proposed, would reduce our reimbursement rate for Medicare Part B therapy services and physician services revenues by an estimated $20 million to $25 million on an annualized basis. We are evaluating options to mitigate the impact of the rate reductions should the rule be finalized as proposed. Key Performance and Valuation Measures In order to assess our financial performance between periods, we evaluate certain key performance and valuation measures for each of our operating segments separately for the periods presented. Results and statistics may not be comparable period-over-period due to the impact of acquisitions and dispositions, or the impact of new and lost therapy contracts. The following is a glossary of terms for some of our key performance and valuation measures and Non-GAAP measures: Actual Patient Days is defined as the number of residents occupying a bed (or units in the case of an assisted/senior living center) for one qualifying day in that period. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA adjusted for newly acquired or constructed businesses with start-up losses and other adjustments to provide a supplemental performance measure. See Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with, Non-GAAP measures. Adjusted EBITDAR is defined as EBITDAR adjusted for newly acquired or constructed businesses with start-up losses and other adjustments to provide a supplemental valuation measure. See Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with, Non-GAAP measures. Available Patient Days is defined as the number of available beds (or units in the case of an assisted/senior living center) multiplied by the number of days in that period. Average Daily Census or ADC is the number of residents occupying a bed (or units in the case of an assisted/senior living center) over a period of time, divided by the number of calendar days in that period. EBITDA is defined as EBITDAR less lease expense. See Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with Non-GAAP measures. EBITDAR is defined as net income or loss attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. before net income or loss of non-controlling interests, net income or loss from discontinued operations, depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense and lease expense. See Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with Non-GAAP measures. Insurance refers collectively to commercial insurance and managed care payor sources, including Medicare Advantage beneficiaries, but does not include managed care payors serving Medicaid residents, which are included in the Medicaid category. Occupancy Percentage is measured as the percentage of Actual Patient Days relative to the Available Patient Days. Skilled Mix refers collectively to Medicare and Insurance payor sources. 52 Table of Contents Therapist Efficiency is computed by dividing billable labor minutes related to patient care and customer value added services by total labor minutes for the period. Key performance and valuation measures for our businesses are set forth below, followed by a comparison and analysis of our financial results: Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Financial Results (in thousands) Financial Performance Measures: Net revenues (GAAP) $ 956,259 $ 1,145,052 $ 2,048,509 $ 2,306,692 Net (loss) income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. (GAAP) (22,005) (4,819) 11,503 (20,082) EBITDA (Non-GAAP) 35,950 72,098 136,080 136,778 Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP) 59,382 61,433 102,241 115,869 Valuation Measure: Adjusted EBITDAR (Non-GAAP) $ 155,777 $ 296,656 53 Table of Contents INPATIENT SEGMENT: Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Occupancy Statistics - Inpatient Available licensed beds in service at end of period 38,193 46,353 38,193 46,353 Available operating beds in service at end of period 36,742 44,408 36,742 44,408 Available patient days based on licensed beds 3,475,715 4,213,333 6,951,985 8,378,173 Available patient days based on operating beds 3,340,756 4,036,602 6,669,380 8,027,459 Actual patient days 2,571,092 3,496,046 5,524,820 6,977,410 Occupancy percentage - licensed beds 74.0 % 83.0 % 79.5 % 83.3 % Occupancy percentage - operating beds 77.0 % 86.6 % 82.8 % 86.9 % Skilled mix 15.8 % 18.2 % 17.2 % 18.6 % Average daily census 28,254 38,418 30,356 38,549 Revenue per patient day (skilled nursing facilities) Medicare Part A $ 579 $ 528 $ 570 $ 526 Insurance 508 454 492 456 Private and other 368 364 370 361 Medicaid 268 231 256 231 Medicaid (net of provider taxes) 245 211 234 211 Weighted average (net of provider taxes) $ 308 $ 277 $ 300 $ 278 Patient days by payor (skilled nursing facilities) Medicare 249,909 344,916 541,783 704,651 Insurance 128,995 252,272 345,264 518,739 Total skilled mix days 378,904 597,188 887,047 1,223,390 Private and other 147,565 193,603 322,623 379,838 Medicaid 1,876,518 2,505,024 3,970,177 4,975,038 Total Days 2,402,987 3,295,815 5,179,847 6,578,266 Patient days as a percentage of total patient days (skilled nursing facilities) Medicare 10.4 % 10.5 % 10.5 % 10.7 % Insurance 5.4 % 7.7 % 6.7 % 7.9 % Skilled mix 15.8 % 18.2 % 17.2 % 18.6 % Private and other 6.1 % 5.9 % 6.2 % 5.8 % Medicaid 78.1 % 75.9 % 76.6 % 75.6 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Facilities at end of period Skilled nursing facilities Leased 249 311 249 311 Owned 16 37 16 37 Joint Venture 61 20 61 20 Managed 12 12 12 12 Total skilled nursing facilities 338 380 338 380 Total licensed beds 40,655 46,108 40,655 46,108 Assisted/Senior living facilities: Leased 19 21 19 21 Owned 1 3 1 3 Joint Venture 2 1 2 1 Managed 1 2 1 2 Total assisted/senior living facilities 23 27 23 27 Total licensed beds 1,829 2,233 1,829 2,233 Total facilities 361 407 361 407 Total Jointly Owned and Managed (Unconsolidated) 36 14 36 14 REHABILITATION THERAPY SEGMENT*: Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Revenue mix %: Company-operated 34 % 36 % 34 % 36 % Non-affiliated and affiliated third party 66 % 64 % 66 % 64 % Sites of service (at end of period) 1,119 1,203 1,119 1,203 Revenue per site $ 137,460 $ 153,373 $ 280,319 $ 302,642 Therapist efficiency % 65 % 68 % 68 % 68 % * Excludes respiratory therapy services. 54 Table of Contents Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure The following discussion includes references to Adjusted EBITDAR, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures (collectively, Non-GAAP Financial Measures). A Non-GAAP Financial Measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position and cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of operations, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the registrant; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable financial measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. We have provided reconciliations of the Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. We believe the presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because these financial measures are useful for trending, analyzing and benchmarking the performance and value of our business. By excluding certain expenses and other items that may not be indicative of our core business operating results, these Non-GAAP Financial Measures: allow investors to evaluate our performance from managements perspective, resulting in greater transparency with respect to supplemental information used by us in our financial and operational decision making; facilitate comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which management monitors financial performance; facilitate comparisons with the performance of others in the post-acute industry; provide better transparency as to the measures used by management and others who follow our industry to estimate the value of our company; and allow investors to view our financial performance and condition in the same manner as our significant landlords and lenders require us to report financial information to them in connection with determining our compliance with financial covenants. We use two Non-GAAP Financial Measures primarily (EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA) as performance measures and believe that the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to these two Non-GAAP Financial Measures is net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. We use one Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted EBITDAR) as a valuation measure and believe that the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to this Non-GAAP Financial Measures is net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. We use Non-GAAP Financial Measures to assess the value of our business and the performance of our operating businesses, as well as the employees responsible for operating such businesses. Non-GAAP Financial Measures are useful in this regard because they do not include such costs as interest expense, income taxes and depreciation and amortization expense which may vary from business unit to business unit depending upon such factors as the method used to finance the original purchase of the business unit or the tax law in the state in which a business unit operates. By excluding such factors when measuring financial performance, many of which are outside of the control of the employees responsible for operating our business units, we are better able to evaluate value and the operating performance of the business unit and the employees responsible for business unit performance. Consequently, we use these Non-GAAP Financial Measures to determine the extent to which our employees have met performance goals, and therefore the extent to which they may or may not be eligible for incentive compensation awards. We also use Non-GAAP Financial Measures in our annual budget process. We believe these Non-GAAP Financial Measures facilitate internal comparisons to historical operating performance of prior periods and external comparisons to competitors historical operating performance. The presentation of these Non-GAAP Financial Measures is consistent with our past practice and we believe these measures further enable investors and analysts to compare current Non-GAAP measures with Non-GAAP measures presented in prior periods. Although we use Non-GAAP Financial Measures as financial measures to assess value and the performance of our business, the use of these Non-GAAP Financial Measures is limited because they do not consider certain material costs necessary to operate the business. These costs include our lease expense (only in the case of Adjusted EBITDAR), the cost to service debt, the depreciation 55 Table of Contents and amortization associated with our long-lived assets, losses on early extinguishment of debt, transaction costs, long-lived asset impairment charges, federal and state income tax expenses, the operating results of our divested businesses and the income or loss attributable to noncontrolling interests. Because Non-GAAP Financial Measures do not consider these important elements of our cost structure, a user of our financial information who relies on Non-GAAP Financial Measures as the only measures of our performance could draw an incomplete or misleading conclusion regarding our financial performance. Consequently, a user of our financial information should consider net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. as an important measure of our financial performance because it provides the most complete measure of our performance. Other companies may define Non-GAAP Financial Measures differently and, as a result, our Non-GAAP Financial Measures may not be directly comparable to those of other companies. Non-GAAP Financial Measures do not represent net income (loss), as defined by GAAP. Non-GAAP Financial Measures should be considered in addition to, not a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP Financial Measures. We use the following Non-GAAP Financial Measures that we believe are useful to investors as key valuation and operating performance measures: EBITDA We believe EBITDA is useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because it helps investors evaluate and compare the results of our operations from period to period by removing the impact of our capital structure (interest expense) and our asset base (depreciation and amortization expense) from our operating results. In addition, financial covenants in our debt agreements use EBITDA as a measure of compliance. Adjustments to EBITDA We adjust EBITDA when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance, in the case of Adjusted EBITDA. We believe that the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA, when combined with GAAP net loss attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc., and EBITDA, is beneficial to an investors complete understanding of our operating performance. In addition, such adjustments are substantially similar to the adjustments to EBITDA provided for in the financial covenant calculations contained in our lease and debt agreements. We adjust EBITDA for the following items: Loss (gain) on early extinguishment of debt. We recognize gains or losses on the early extinguishment of debt when we refinance our debt prior to its original term, requiring us to write-off any unamortized deferred financing fees. We exclude the effect of gains or losses recorded on the early extinguishment of debt because we believe these gains and losses do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. Other income. We primarily use this income statement caption to capture gains and losses on the sale or disposition of assets. We exclude the effect of such gains and losses because we believe they do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. Transaction costs. In connection with our restructuring, acquisition and disposition transactions, we incur costs consisting of investment banking, legal, transaction-based compensation and other professional service costs. We exclude restructuring, acquisition and disposition related transaction costs expensed during the period because we believe these costs do not reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. Long-lived asset impairments. We exclude non-cash long-lived asset impairment charges because we believe including them does not reflect the ongoing performance of our operating businesses. Additionally, such impairment charges represent accelerated depreciation expense, and depreciation expense is also excluded from EBITDA. Severance and restructuring. We exclude severance costs from planned reduction in force initiatives associated with restructuring activities intended to adjust our cost structure in response to changes in the business environment. We 56 Table of Contents believe these costs do not reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. We do not exclude severance costs that are not associated with such restructuring activities. (Income) loss of newly acquired, constructed or divested businesses. The acquisition and construction of new businesses is an element of our growth strategy. Many of the businesses we acquire have a history of operating losses and continue to generate operating losses in the months that follow our acquisition. Newly constructed or developed businesses also generate losses while in their start-up phase. We view these losses as both temporary and an expected component of our long-term investment in the new venture. We adjust these losses when computing Adjusted EBITDA in order to better analyze the performance of our mature ongoing business. The activities of such businesses are adjusted when computing Adjusted EBITDA until such time as a new business generates positive Adjusted EBITDA. The divestiture of underperforming or non-strategic facilities is also an element of our business strategy. We eliminate the results of divested facilities beginning in the quarter in which they become divested. We view the income or losses associated with the wind-down of such divested facilities as not indicative of the performance of our ongoing operating business. Stock-based compensation. We exclude stock-based compensation expense because it does not result in an outlay of cash and such non-cash expenses do not reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. Impact of COVID-19. We excluded the net impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our revenues and expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 due to the extraordinary nature of the virus and its impact across the globe. We view the incremental expenses, lost revenue and government relief grants as not indicative of the underlying potential long-term performance of our operating businesses. Our estimate of the pandemics impact on earnings for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 includes the following components: (1) incremental funding received to address escalating expenses and lost revenue; (2) incremental expenses incurred as a result of the pandemic; and (3) the net impact of lost revenue, after considering a resulting reduction in operating expenses. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, we excluded funding recognized under the CARES Act and additional funding provided by certain states totaling approximately $228.0 million and $234.0 million, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, we excluded incremental expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic of approximately $145.3 million and $152.5 million, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 we excluded the estimated net impact of lost revenue offset by any resulting reduction in operating expenses, of approximately $67.0 million and $74.0 million, respectively. Adjusted EBITDAR We use Adjusted EBITDAR as one measure in determining the value of our business and the value of prospective acquisitions or divestitures. Adjusted EBITDAR is also a commonly used measure to estimate the enterprise value of businesses in the healthcare and other industries. In addition, financial covenants in our lease agreements use Adjusted EBITDAR as a measure of compliance. The adjustments made and previously described in the computation of Adjusted EBITDA are also made when computing Adjusted EBITDAR. Supplemental Information We provide supplemental information about certain capital costs we believe are beneficial to an investors understanding of our capital structure and cash flows. This supplemental information includes (1) cash interest payments on our recourse and HUD guaranteed indebtedness (2) cash rent payments made to partially owned real estate joint ventures that is eliminated in consolidation, net of any distributions returned to us, and (3) total cash lease payments made pursuant to operating leases and finance leases. This supplemental information is used by us to evaluate our leverage, fixed charge coverage and cash flow. This supplemental information is consistent with information used by our major creditors in evaluating compliance with financial covenants contained in our material lease and loan agreements. 57 Table of Contents See the reconciliation of net (loss) income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. to Non-GAAP financial information included herein (in thousands): Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Net (loss) income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. $ (22,005) $ (4,819) $ 11,503 $ (20,082) Adjustments to compute EBITDA: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (7,311) (4,164) (2,138) (13,983) Depreciation and amortization expense 33,816 28,268 59,804 66,463 Interest expense 31,907 52,975 68,147 104,491 Income tax benefit (457) (162) (1,236) (111) EBITDA $ 35,950 $ 72,098 136,080 136,778 Adjustments to compute Adjusted EBITDA: Loss (gain) on early extinguishment of debt 1,421 (24) 5,460 (24) Other income (44,100) (23,413) (128,932) (40,330) Transaction costs 5,543 8,823 11,134 10,084 Long-lived asset impairments 77,100 900 86,800 900 Severance and restructuring 346 673 701 2,119 (Income) loss of newly acquired, constructed, or divested businesses (3,329) 865 (5,250) 2,744 Stock-based compensation 1,831 1,748 3,725 3,835 Estimated impact of COVID-19 (15,380) (7,477) Other non-recurring income (237) (237) Adjusted EBITDA $ 59,382 $ 61,433 $ 102,241 $ 115,869 Lease expense 96,395 94,586 194,415 188,647 Adjusted EBITDAR $ 155,777 $ 296,656 Supplemental information: Cash interest payments on recourse and HUD debt $ 15,280 $ 20,491 $ 34,660 $ 42,940 Cash payments made to partially owned real estate joint ventures, net of distributions received 12,679 4,193 25,379 4,193 Total cash lease payments made pursuant to operating leases and finance leases $ 90,436 $ 105,888 $ 183,782 $ 213,516 Results of Operations Same-store Presentation We continue to execute on a strategic plan which includes expansion in core markets and operating segments which we believe will enhance the value of our business in the ever-changing landscape of national healthcare. We are also focused on right-sizing our operations to fit that new environment and to divest underperforming and non-strategic assets, many of which were consolidated as part of larger acquisitions in recent years to achieve the net overall growth strategy. We define our same-store inpatient operations as those skilled nursing and assisted/senior living centers which have been operated by us, in a steady-state, for each comparable period in this Results of Operations discussion. We exclude from that definition those skilled nursing and assisted/senior living facilities recently acquired that were not operated by us for the entire period, as well as those that were divested prior to or during the most recent period presented. In cases where we are developing new skilled nursing or assisted/senior living centers, those operations are excluded from our same-store inpatient operations until the revenue driven by operating patient census is stable in the comparable periods. Since the nature of our rehabilitation therapy services operations experiences high volume of both new and terminated contracts in an annual cycle, and the scale and significance of those contracts can be very different to both the revenue and operating expenses of that business, a same-store presentation based solely on the contract or gym count does not provide an accurate depiction of the business. Accordingly, we do not reference same-store figures in this MD&A with regard to that business. The volume of services delivered in our other services businesses can also be affected by strategic transactional activity. To the extent there are businesses to be excluded to achieve same-store comparability those will be noted in the context of the Results of Operations discussion. 58 Table of Contents Impact of COVID-19 on Results of Operations The COVID-19 pandemic will impact the comparability of our 2020 financial results with those of other periods. That reduced comparability will be highlighted in the discussion of our results of operations, separate from our same-store presentation. For more information about the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our results of operations and financial position, see COVID-19 described more fully in this MD&A. Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 A summary of our unaudited results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019 follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three months ended June 30, 2020 2019 Increase / (Decrease) Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Revenues: Inpatient services: Skilled nursing facilities $ 796,961 83.4 % $ 964,541 84.2 % $ (167,580) (17.4) % Assisted/Senior living facilities 20,041 2.1 % 23,702 2.1 % (3,661) (15.4) % Administration of third party facilities 2,110 0.2 % 2,054 0.2 % 56 2.7 % Elimination of administrative services (784) (0.1) % (799) (0) % 15 1.9 % Inpatient services, net 818,328 85.6 % 989,498 86.4 % (171,170) (17.3) % Rehabilitation therapy services: Total therapy services 153,625 16.1 % 192,906 16.8 % (39,281) (20.4) % Elimination of intersegment rehabilitation therapy services (57,101) (6.0) % (71,971) (6.3) % 14,870 20.7 % Third party rehabilitation therapy services, net 96,524 10.1 % 120,935 10.5 % (24,411) (20.2) % Other services: Total other services 70,959 7.4 % 45,489 4.0 % 25,470 56.0 % Elimination of intersegment other services (29,552) (3.1) % (10,870) (0.9) % (18,682) (171.9) % Third party other services, net 41,407 4.3 % 34,619 3.1 % 6,788 19.6 % Net revenues $ 956,259 100.0 % $ 1,145,052 100.0 % $ (188,793) (16.5) % Three months ended June 30, 2020 2019 Increase / (Decrease) Margin Margin Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage EBITDA: Inpatient services $ 43,049 5.3 % $ 87,649 8.9 % $ (44,600) (50.9) % Rehabilitation therapy services 27,716 18.0 % 25,586 13.3 % 2,130 8.3 % Other services 4,454 6.3 % 1,248 2.7 % 3,206 256.9 % Corporate and eliminations (39,269) % (42,385) % 3,116 7.4 % EBITDA $ 35,950 3.8 % $ 72,098 6.3 % $ (36,148) (50.1) % 59 Table of Contents A summary of our unaudited condensed consolidating statement of operations follows (in thousands): Three months ended June 30, 2020 Rehabilitation Inpatient Therapy Other Services Services Services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated Net revenues $ 819,112 $ 153,625 $ 67,857 $ 3,102 $ (87,437) $ 956,259 Salaries, wages and benefits 451,176 121,984 43,784 616,944 Other operating expenses 374,583 8,760 21,493 (87,562) 317,274 General and administrative costs 39,769 39,769 Lease expense 95,279 313 503 300 96,395 Depreciation and amortization expense 29,544 1,677 208 2,406 (19) 33,816 Interest expense 12,829 13 9 20,236 (1,180) 31,907 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 1,421 1,421 Investment income (2,141) 1,180 (961) Other income (44,100) (44,100) Transaction costs 5,543 5,543 Long-lived asset impairments 77,100 77,100 Federal stimulus - COVID-19 other income (177,975) (5,148) (2,377) (185,500) Equity in net (income) loss of unconsolidated affiliates (4,297) 721 (3,576) Income (loss) before income tax benefit 676 26,026 4,237 (60,135) (577) (29,773) Income tax benefit (457) (457) Net income (loss) $ 676 $ 26,026 $ 4,237 $ (59,678) $ (577) $ (29,316) Three months ended June 30, 2019 Rehabilitation Inpatient Therapy Other Services Services Services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated Net revenues $ 990,297 $ 192,906 $ 45,325 $ 164 $ (83,640) $ 1,145,052 Salaries, wages and benefits 442,028 154,855 29,276 626,159 Other operating expenses 389,637 12,130 14,402 (83,641) 332,528 General and administrative costs 35,562 35,562 Lease expense 93,557 335 338 356 94,586 Depreciation and amortization expense 22,328 3,112 174 2,654 28,268 Interest expense 29,051 13 8 23,903 52,975 Gain on early extinguishment of debt (24) (24) Investment income (2,143) (2,143) Other (income) loss (23,474) 61 (23,413) Transaction costs 8,823 8,823 Long-lived asset impairments 900 900 Equity in net loss (income) of unconsolidated affiliates 1,910 (1,934) (24) Income (loss) before income tax benefit 36,270 22,461 1,066 (70,877) 1,935 (9,145) Income tax benefit (162) (162) Net income (loss) $ 36,270 $ 22,461 $ 1,066 $ (70,715) $ 1,935 $ (8,983) Net Revenues Net revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2020 decreased by $188.8 million, or 16.5%, as compared with the three months ended June 30, 2019. Inpatient Services Revenue decreased $171.2 million, or 17.3%, in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Divestiture activity and COVID-19 are the primary drivers of this variance. On a same-store basis, inpatient services revenue decreased $35.1 million, or 4.3%, excluding 76 divested underperforming facilities and the acquisition or development of 3 additional facilities. The same-store revenue decrease is net of $8.8 million related to a new provider tax program in the state of New Mexico, which was not in place for the corresponding period in 2019 and an additional increase of $10.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 is attributed to the transition from the resource utilization group based reimbursement to the Patient-Driven Payment Model (PDPM) reimbursement methodology in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. Giving effect to these factors, we estimate the remaining same-store inpatient revenue decrease of $54.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared with the same period in 2019 is due to the impact of COVID-19, partially offset by increasing payor rates, primarily in our Medicaid population, reflecting a trend that was observed before COVID-19 impacted our operations. While census was adversely impacted by admission holds and declining in-house census as the pandemic progressed, average payor rates increased as acuity of the in-house census increased with treatment of the population testing positive for the virus. COVID-19, has, and will likely 60 Table of Contents continue to disrupt this favorable overall census trend and may have an unpredictable impact on the skilled mix of our inpatient facilities as a result of the temporary change to patient coverage criteria. For an expanded discussion regarding the factors influencing our operating census and challenges to our ability to grow inpatient service revenues, see Item 1, Business Industry Trends in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, Key Performance and Valuation Measures in this MD&A for quantification of the census trends and revenue per patient day as well as COVID-19 in this MD&A. Rehabilitation Therapy Services Revenue decreased $24.4 million, or 20.2% comparing the three months ended June 30, 2020 with the same period in 2019. Of that decrease, $11.8 million is due to lost contract business, offset by $5.0 million attributed to new contracts. COVID-19 began to impact the skilled nursing customers of our rehabilitation services at an accelerating rate by March 2020 and continuing through June 30, 2020, resulting in a decrease of revenue of $7.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. The remaining decrease of $10.1 million is principally due to reduced volume of services provided to existing customers and amended customer pricing terms in connection with the implementation of PDPM. Other Services Revenue increased $6.8 million, or 19.6% in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Our other services revenue is comprised mainly of our physician services and staffing services businesses, in addition to our Accountable Care Organization (ACO). In the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, the ACO did not recognize any revenue under the Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP). We are participating in the MSSP in 2020; however, uncertainty around how the 2020 MSSP will perform in light of COVID-19 precludes us from recognizing any savings to the Medicare program at this stage. Revenue in our physician services business decreased $0.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019, all of which is attributed to reduced census volumes from the impact of COVID-19 on the inpatient business. The remaining increase of revenue of $7.2 million is in our staffing services business, which has shifted its focus to developing its services to our affiliated nursing facilities and therapy gyms. While the staffing business gross revenue has increased over 87% in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019, its revenue from external customers has only increased 25.9% over that same period. Further penetration of the internal staffing needs is a strategic goal for our staffing business, and, if successful, it will provide a benefit to our inpatient and rehabilitation therapy segments to combat a historically strong labor market and accelerating wage pressures, in addition to the evolving demands of post-acute care in light of the COVID-19 impact on our various lines of business. EBITDA EBITDA for the three months ended June 30, 2020 decreased by $36.1 million, or 50.1%, as compared with the three months ended June 30, 2019. Excluding the impact of loss on early extinguishment of debt, other (income) loss, transaction costs, long-lived asset impairments and Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA decreased $168.0 million, or 287.7% when compared with the same period in 2019. The contributing factors for this net decrease are described in our discussion below of segment results and corporate overhead. Inpatient Services EBITDA decreased by $44.6 million, or 50.9% for the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Excluding the impact of other (income) loss, long-lived asset impairments and Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA as adjusted decreased $167.0 million when compared with the same period in 2019. Divestiture activity and COVID-19 are the primary drivers of this variance. On a same-store basis, the inpatient EBITDA as adjusted decreased $158.5 million. Same-store staffing costs, net of nursing agency and other purchased services and adjusted for the impact of COVID-19, increased $100.9 million. Wages and purchased services include supplemental premium pay rates and bonuses to insure we could attract adequate staff to address our clinical needs during the pandemic. Nursing wage inflation increased 28.8% while non-nursing wage inflation increased 20.8% in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Same-store lease expense increased $2.7 million, primarily due to lease amendments in 2019 resulting in certain financing leases being reclassified as operating leases. Our self-insurance programs, including general and professional liability, workers compensation and health insurance benefits, resulted in a decrease of $15.4 million EBITDA as adjusted in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic our self-insurance programs were performing as anticipated and within normal claims reporting patterns of our same-store operations recently. The provisions for general and professional liability recorded in both the three months ended June 30, 2020 and the comparable period in 2019 reflect continued favorable claims development and accelerated claims settlement initiated in 2018. We have not changed our reserving methodology or assumptions for any COVID-19 specific exposures. Our self-insured health benefit plans have seen reduced expenses principally due to other medical care settings limiting non-emergency services during the COVID-19 pandemic, however, we anticipate those 61 Table of Contents deferred procedures will impact expense over the remainder of fiscal year 2020. $24.9 million of the net EBITDA decrease relating to self-insurance programs is for an incremental provision of COVID-19 related workers compensation exposure incurred through June 30, 2020. The introduction of the new provider tax program in New Mexico resulted in an increase of EBITDA of $5.8 million compared to the same period in 2019 before the program was enacted. The remaining $45.3 million decrease in EBITDA, as adjusted, of the segment is principally due to the negative affects COVID-19 has had on our business, partially offset with reduced therapy services cost due to the implementation of PDPM. See Significant Transactions and Events COVID-19. Rehabilitation Therapy Services EBITDA increased by $2.1 million, or 8.3%, for the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Excluding the impact of Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA as adjusted decreased $3.0 million when compared with the same period in 2019. Lost therapy contracts exceeded new contracts by $2.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. COVID-19 resulted in a decrease of EBITDA of $4.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020. The remaining increase of $3.5 million is principally attributed to overhead cost reductions and improved accounts receivable collections in the period. Therapist efficiency was negatively impacted by the impact of COVID-19, decreasing to 64.8% in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared with 67.9% in the comparable period in the prior year. This decline in therapist efficiency is expected to be temporary as we have adjusted staffing and service models to address the clinical needs of our skilled nursing customers impacted by COVID-19. Other Services EBITDA increased $3.2 million, or 256.9%, for the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Excluding the impact of Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA as adjusted increased $0.8 million when compared with the same period in 2019. The EBITDA of our staffing services business increased $2.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019, principally due to growth in its services with affiliated customers. The remaining decrease of $1.6 million pertains to our physician services business and ACO. Both businesses have been negatively impacted by COVID-19 reducing patient encounters due to reduced skilled nursing census across the industry and increased costs to support practitioners. Corporate and Eliminations EBITDA increased $3.1 million, or 7.4%, for the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. EBITDA of our corporate function includes loss on early extinguishment of debt and losses associated with transactions that are outside of the scope of our reportable segments. These and other transactions, which are separately captioned in our consolidated statements of operations and described more fully above in our Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure, contributed $1.8 million of the net increase in EBITDA. Corporate overhead costs, net of fee income, increased $1.3 million, or 3.6%, in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. This increase is principally due to investments in information technology and related upgrades. The remaining increase in EBITDA of $2.4 million is primarily the result of an increase in investment earnings from our unconsolidated affiliates accounted for on the equity method and other investments. Other (income) loss Consistent with our strategy to divest assets in non-strategic markets, we incur losses and generate gains resulting from the sale, transition or closure of underperforming operations and assets. Other (income) loss for the three months ended June 30, 2020 principally represents gains on sales of real estate and leasehold rights in the period. See also Note 12 Other Income . Transaction costs In the normal course of business, we evaluate strategic acquisition, disposition and business development opportunities. The costs to pursue these opportunities, when incurred, vary from period to period depending on the nature of the transaction pursued and if those transactions are ever completed. Transaction costs incurred for the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 were $5.5 million and $8.8 million, respectively. Long-lived asset impairments In the three months ended June 30, 2020, we recognized impairments of property and equipment and right-of-use (ROU) assets of $77.1 million. For more information about the conditions of the business which contributed to these impairments, see Industry Trends and Recent Regulatory Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue and Financial Condition and Liquidity Considerations in this MD&A, as well as Note 13 Asset Impairment Charges - Long-Lived Assets with a Definite Useful Life. Federal stimulus COVID 19 other income During April and May 2020, we received $185.5 million of relief grants from CARES Act funds administered by the HHS. The grants are primarily related to the skilled nursing care provided through our Inpatient Services segment. Grants received are subject to the terms and conditions of the program, including that such funds may only be used to prevent, prepare for, and respond to COVID-19 and will reimburse only for health care related expenses or lost 62 Table of Contents revenues that are attributable to COVID-19. HHS continues to evaluate and provide allocations of, and issue regulation and guidance regarding, grants made under the CARES Act. Other Expense The following discussion applies to the consolidated expense categories between EBITDA and net income (loss) of all reportable segments, corporate and eliminations in our consolidating statement of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Depreciation and amortization Each of our reportable segments and corporate overhead have depreciating property, plant and equipment, including amortization of finance lease ROU assets. Our rehabilitation therapy services and other services have identifiable intangible assets which amortize over the estimated life of those identifiable assets. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $5.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. On a same-store basis, depreciation and amortization increased $2.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. This increase is principally due to acceleration of depreciation of assets sold into real estate joint ventures in the current quarter, offset by reductions in the amortization of the right to use assets of our remaining leases. Interest expense Interest expense includes the cash interest and non-cash adjustments required to account for our debt instruments, as well as the expense associated with leases accounted for as finance leases. Interest expense decreased $21.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period 2019. On a same-store basis, interest expense is down $16.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. An increase of $4.4 million of interest expense is attributed to consolidating debt and the associated interest expense of two real-estate partnerships in 2019, which were determined to be variable interest entities (VIEs) of which we are the primary beneficiary. See Note 1 General Information Basis of Presentation and Note 9 Long-Term Debt . Cash rent decreased $3.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019 as a result of a reduction in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, primarily due to the timing of the Medicare Advance payments in connection with CARES Act relief funding. Borrowing levels are expected to increase over the period the Medicare Advance is required to be recouped. The remaining decrease in interest expense of $16.8 million is principally due to lease amendments entered in 2019 and early 2020 that resulted in modifications to the accounting for certain leases, converting them from financing leases with interest expense to operating leases presented as lease expense. Income tax benefit For the three months ended June 30, 2020, we recorded income tax benefit of $0.5 million from continuing operations representing an effective tax rate of 1.5% compared to an income tax benefit of $0.2 million from continuing operations, representing an effective tax rate of 1.8% for the same period in 2019. There is a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, excluding our deferred tax asset on our Bermuda captive insurance companys discounted unpaid loss reserve. Previously, in assessing the requirement for, and amount of, a valuation allowance in accordance with the standard, we determined it was more likely than not we would not realize our deferred tax assets and established a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets. As of June 30, 2020, we have determined that the valuation allowance is still necessary. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. The following discussion applies to categories between net income (loss) and net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. in our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests On February 2, 2015, FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC (FC-GEN) combined with Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. and the combined results were consolidated with approximately 42.0% direct noncontrolling economic interest shown as noncontrolling interest in the financial statements of the combined entity. The direct noncontrolling economic interest is in the form of Class C common stock of FC-GEN that are exchangeable on a 1-to-1 basis to our public shares. The direct noncontrolling economic interest will continue to decrease as Class C common stock of FC-GEN are exchanged for public shares. Since the combination, there have been conversions of 9.0 million Class C common stock, leaving a remaining direct noncontrolling economic interest of approximately 32.9%. For the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, loss of $(6.5) million and $(1.9) million, respectively, has been attributed to the Class C common stock. 63 Table of Contents In addition to the noncontrolling interests attributable to the Class C common stock holders, our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all entities controlled by us through our ownership of a majority voting interest and the accounts of any VIEs where we are subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the VIE's activities, or entitled to receive a majority of the entity's residual returns, or both. We adjust net income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. to exclude the net income attributable to the third party ownership interests of the VIEs. For the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, loss of $(0.8) million and $(2.2) million, respectively, has been attributed to these unaffiliated third parties. Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 Compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 A summary of our unaudited results of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019 follows (in thousands, except percentages): Six months ended June 30, 2020 2019 Increase / (Decrease) Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Revenues: Inpatient services: Skilled nursing facilities $ 1,726,834 84.5 % $ 1,946,937 84.3 % $ (220,103) (11.3) % Assisted/Senior living facilities 41,863 2.0 % 47,351 2.1 % (5,488) (11.6) % Administration of third party facilities 4,151 0.2 % 4,301 0.2 % (150) (3.5) % Elimination of administrative services (1,570) (0.1) % (1,599) % 29 1.8 % Inpatient services, net 1,771,278 86.6 % 1,996,990 86.6 % (225,712) (11.3) % Rehabilitation therapy services: Total therapy services 318,421 15.5 % 387,977 16.8 % (69,556) (17.9) % Elimination of intersegment rehabilitation therapy services (116,428) (5.7) % (146,202) (6.3) % 29,774 20.4 % Third party rehabilitation therapy services, net 201,993 9.8 % 241,775 10.5 % (39,782) (16.5) % Other services: Total other services 125,782 6.1 % 87,607 3.8 % 38,175 43.6 % Elimination of intersegment other services (50,544) (2.5) % (19,680) (0.9) % (30,864) (156.8) % Third party other services, net 75,238 3.6 % 67,927 2.9 % 7,311 10.8 % Net revenues $ 2,048,509 100.0 % $ 2,306,692 100.0 % $ (258,183) (11.2) % Six months ended June 30, 2020 2019 Increase / (Decrease) Margin Margin Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage EBITDA: Inpatient services $ 168,647 9.5 % $ 161,122 8.1 % $ 7,525 4.7 % Rehabilitation therapy services 49,129 15.4 % 52,354 13.5 % (3,225) (6.2) % Other services 5,181 4.1 % 926 1.1 % 4,255 459.5 % Corporate and eliminations (86,877) % (77,624) % (9,253) (11.9) % EBITDA $ 136,080 6.6 % $ 136,778 5.9 % $ (698) (0.5) % 64 Table of Contents A summary of our unaudited condensed consolidating statement of operations follows (in thousands): Six months ended June 30, 2020 Rehabilitation Inpatient Therapy Other Services Services Services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated Net revenues $ 1,772,848 $ 318,421 $ 121,896 $ 3,886 $ (168,542) $ 2,048,509 Salaries, wages and benefits 862,218 256,553 78,706 1,197,477 Other operating expenses 770,109 17,262 39,176 (168,792) 657,755 General and administrative costs 79,386 79,386 Lease expense 192,261 625 930 599 194,415 Depreciation and amortization expense 51,178 3,363 406 4,895 (38) 59,804 Interest expense 26,395 27 19 44,066 (2,360) 68,147 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 5,460 5,460 Investment income (4,477) 2,360 (2,117) Other (income) loss (129,212) 280 (128,932) Transaction costs 11,134 11,134 Long-lived asset impairments 86,800 86,800 Federal stimulus - COVID-19 other income (177,975) (5,148) (2,377) (185,500) Equity in net (income) loss of unconsolidated affiliates (4,109) 660 (3,449) Income (loss) before income tax benefit 91,074 45,739 4,756 (133,068) (372) 8,129 Income tax benefit (1,236) (1,236) Net income (loss) $ 91,074 $ 45,739 $ 4,756 $ (131,832) $ (372) $ 9,365 Six months ended June 30, 2019 Rehabilitation Inpatient Therapy Other Services Services Services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated Net revenues $ 1,998,589 $ 387,977 $ 87,390 $ 217 $ (167,481) $ 2,306,692 Salaries, wages and benefits 898,790 311,947 57,832 1,268,569 Other operating expenses 791,569 23,087 27,891 (167,481) 675,066 General and administrative costs 71,094 71,094 Lease expense 186,523 665 680 779 188,647 Depreciation and amortization expense 54,200 6,276 348 5,639 66,463 Interest expense 56,091 27 17 48,356 104,491 Gain on early extinguishment of debt (24) (24) Investment income (4,007) (4,007) Other (income) loss (40,315) (76) 61 (40,330) Transaction costs 10,084 10,084 Long-lived asset impairments 900 900 Equity in net loss (income) of unconsolidated affiliates 1,386 (1,471) (85) Income (loss) before income tax benefit 50,831 46,051 561 (133,090) 1,471 (34,176) Income tax benefit (111) (111) Net income (loss) $ 50,831 $ 46,051 $ 561 $ (132,979) $ 1,471 $ (34,065) Net Revenues Net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2020 decreased by $258.2 million, or 11.2%, as compared with the six months ended June 30, 2019. Inpatient Services Revenue decreased $225.7 million, or 11.3%, in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Divestiture activity and COVID-19 are the primary drivers of this variance. On a same-store basis, inpatient services revenue increased $13.7 million, or 0.8%, excluding 87 divested underperforming facilities and the acquisition or development of 3 additional facilities. The same-store revenue increase is net of $18.1 million related to a new provider tax program in the state of New Mexico, which was not in place for the corresponding period in 2019 and an additional $19.9 million of the increase in the six months ended June 30, 2020 is attributed to the transition from the resource utilization group based reimbursement to the Patient-Driven Payment Model (PDPM) reimbursement methodology in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. Giving effect to these factors, we estimate the remaining same-store inpatient revenue decrease of $24.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2020 compared with the same period in 2019 is due to the impact of COVID-19, partially offset by increasing payor rates, primarily in our Medicaid population, reflecting a trend that was observed before COVID-19 impacted our operations. While census was adversely impacted by admission holds and declining in-house census as the pandemic progressed, average payor rates increased as acuity of the in-house census increased with treatment of the population testing positive for the virus. COVID-19, has, 65 Table of Contents and will likely continue to disrupt this favorable overall census trend and may have an unpredictable impact on the skilled mix of our inpatient facilities as a result of the temporary change to patient coverage criteria. For an expanded discussion regarding the factors influencing our operating census and challenges to our ability to grow inpatient service revenues, see Item 1, Business Industry Trends in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, Key Performance and Valuation Measures in this MD&A for quantification of the census trends and revenue per patient day as well as COVID-19 in this MD&A. Rehabilitation Therapy Services Revenue decreased $39.8 million, or 16.5% comparing the six months ended June 30, 2020 with the same period in 2019. Of that decrease, $19.1 million is due to lost contract business, offset by $8.2 million attributed to new contracts. COVID-19 began to impact the skilled nursing customers of our rehabilitation services at an accelerating rate by March 2020 and continued through June 30, 2020, resulting in a decrease of revenue of $10.4 million in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. The remaining decrease of $18.5 million is principally due to reduced volume of services provided to existing customers and amended customer pricing terms in connection with the implementation of PDPM. Other Services Revenue increased $7.3 million, or 10.8% in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Our other services revenue is comprised mainly of our physician services and staffing services businesses, in addition to our Accountable Care Organization (ACO). In the six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, the ACO did not recognize any revenue under the Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP). We are participating in the MSSP in 2020; however, uncertainty around how the 2020 MSSP will perform in light of COVID-19 precludes us from recognizing any savings to the Medicare program at this stage. Revenue in our physician services business increased $1.1 million in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. The remaining increase of revenue of $6.2 million is in our staffing services business, which has shifted its focus to developing its services to our affiliated nursing facilities and therapy gyms. While the staffing business gross revenue has increased over 66% in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019, its revenue from external customers has only increased 9.6% over that same period. Further penetration of the internal staffing needs is a strategic goal for our staffing business, and, if successful, it will provide a benefit to our inpatient and rehabilitation therapy segments to combat a historically strong labor market and accelerating wage pressures, in addition to the evolving demands of post-acute care in light of the COVID-19 impact on our various lines of business. EBITDA EBITDA for the six months ended June 30, 2020 decreased by $0.7 million, or 0.5%, as compared with the six months ended June 30, 2019. Excluding the impact of loss on early extinguishment of debt, other (income) loss, transaction costs and long-lived asset impairments, EBITDA decreased $14.4 million, or 29.4% when compared with the same period in 2019. The contributing factors for this net decrease are described in our discussion below of segment results and corporate overhead. Inpatient Services EBITDA increased by $7.5 million, or 4.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Excluding the impact of other (income) loss, long-lived asset impairments and Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA as adjusted decreased $173.4 million, or 142.5% when compared with the same period in 2019. Divestiture activity and COVID-19 are the primary drivers of this variance. On a same-store basis, the inpatient EBITDA as adjusted decreased $153.0 million. Same-store staffing costs, net of nursing agency and other purchased services and adjusted for the impact of COVID-19, increased $130.4 million. Wages and purchased services include supplemental premium pay rates and bonuses to insure we could attract adequate staff to address our clinical needs during the pandemic. Nursing wage inflation increased 16.9% while non-nursing wage inflation increased 11.6% in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Same-store lease expense increased $6.0 million, primarily due to lease amendments in 2019 resulting in certain financing leases being reclassified as operating leases. Our self-insurance programs, including general and professional liability, workers compensation and health insurance benefits, resulted in a decrease of $20.4 million EBITDA as adjusted in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic our self-insurance programs were performing as anticipated and within normal claims reporting patterns of our same-store operations recently. The provisions for general and professional liability recorded in both the six months ended June 30, 2020 and the comparable period in 2019 reflect continued favorable claims development and accelerated claims settlement initiated in 2018. We have not changed our reserving methodology or assumptions for any COVID-19 specific exposures. Our self-insured health benefit plans have seen reduced expenses principally due to other medical care settings limiting non-emergency services during the COVID-19 pandemic, however, we anticipate those deferred procedures will impact expense over the remainder of fiscal year 2020. $24.9 million of the net EBITDA decrease relating to self-insurance programs is for an incremental provision of COVID-19 related workers compensation 66 Table of Contents exposure incurred through June 30, 2020. The introduction of the new provider tax program in New Mexico resulted in an increase of EBITDA of $11.3 million compared to the same period in 2019 before the program was enacted. The remaining $7.5 million decrease in EBITDA, as adjusted, of the segment is principally due to the negative affects COVID-19 has had on our business, partially offset with reduced therapy services cost due to the implementation of PDPM. See Significant Transactions and Events COVID-19. Rehabilitation Therapy Services EBITDA decreased by $3.2 million, or 6.2%, for the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Excluding the impact of Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA as adjusted decreased $8.3 million when compared with the same period in 2019. Lost therapy contracts exceeded new contracts by $3.6 million in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. COVID-19 resulted in a decrease of EBITDA of $6.7 million in the six months ended June 30, 2020. The remaining increase of $2.0 million is principally attributed to reduced overhead costs. Therapist efficiency improved to 68.1% in the six months ended June 30, 2020 compared with 68.0% in the comparable period in the prior year. Other Services EBITDA increased $4.3 million, or 459.5%, for the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Excluding the impact of Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA as adjusted increased $2.1 million when compared with the same period in 2019. The EBITDA of our staffing services business increased $3.1 million in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019, principally due to growth in its services with affiliated customers. The remaining decrease of $1.0 million pertains to our physician services business and ACO. Both businesses have been negatively impacted by COVID-19 reducing patient encounters due to reduced skilled nursing census across the industry and increased costs to support practitioners. Corporate and Eliminations EBITDA decreased $9.3 million, or 11.9%, for the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. EBITDA of our corporate function includes loss on early extinguishment of debt and losses associated with transactions that are outside of the scope of our reportable segments. These and other transactions, which are separately captioned in our consolidated statements of operations and described more fully above in our Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure, contributed $6.5 million of the net decrease in EBITDA. Corporate overhead costs, net of fee income, increased $4.6 million, or 6.5%, in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. This increase is principally due to investments in information technology and related upgrades. The remaining increase in EBITDA of $1.8 million is primarily the result of an increase in investment earnings from our unconsolidated affiliates accounted for on the equity method and other investments. Other (income) loss Consistent with our strategy to divest assets in non-strategic markets, we incur losses and generate gains resulting from the sale, transition or closure of underperforming operations and assets. Other (income) loss for the six months ended June 30, 2020 principally represents gains on sales of real estate and leasehold rights in the period. See also Note 12 Other Income . Transaction costs In the normal course of business, we evaluate strategic acquisition, disposition and business development opportunities. The costs to pursue these opportunities, when incurred, vary from period to period depending on the nature of the transaction pursued and if those transactions are ever completed. Transaction costs incurred for the six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 were $11.1 million and $10.1 million, respectively. Long-lived asset impairments In the six months ended June 30, 2020, we recognized impairments of property and equipment and right-of-use (ROU) assets of $86.8 million. For more information about the conditions of the business which contributed to these impairments, see Industry Trends and Recent Regulatory Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue and Financial Condition and Liquidity Considerations in this MD&A, as well as Note 13 Asset Impairment Charges - Long-Lived Assets with a Definite Useful Life. Federal stimulus COVID 19 other income During April and May 2020, we received $185.5 million of relief grants from CARES Act funds administered by the HHS. The grants are primarily related to the skilled nursing care provided through our Inpatient Services segment. Grants received are subject to the terms and conditions of the program, including that such funds may only be used to prevent, prepare for, and respond to COVID-19 and will reimburse only for health care related expenses or lost revenues that are attributable to COVID-19. HHS continues to evaluate and provide allocations of, and issue regulation and guidance regarding, grants made under the CARES Act. 67 Table of Contents Other Expense The following discussion applies to the consolidated expense categories between EBITDA and net income (loss) of all reportable segments, corporate and eliminations in our consolidating statement of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Depreciation and amortization Each of our reportable segments and corporate overhead have depreciating property, plant and equipment, including amortization of finance lease ROU assets. Our rehabilitation therapy services and other services have identifiable intangible assets which amortize over the estimated life of those identifiable assets. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $6.7 million in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. On a same-store basis, depreciation and amortization decreased $10.6 million in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. In the inpatient services segment, $9.4 million of the decrease is principally due reduction in the amortization of right to use assets in our continuing lease portfolio, with the remaining $1.2 million reduction principally due to prior year acceleration related to multiple lease transactions. Interest expense Interest expense includes the cash interest and non-cash adjustments required to account for our debt instruments, as well as the expense associated with leases accounted for as finance leases. Interest expense decreased $36.4 million in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period 2019. On a same-store basis, interest expense is down $26.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. An increase of $12.1 million of interest expense is attributed to consolidating debt and the associated interest expense of two real-estate partnerships in 2019, which were determined to be variable interest entities (VIEs) of which we are the primary beneficiary. See Note 1 General Information Basis of Presentation and Note 9 Long-Term Debt . Cash rent decreased $5.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019 as a result of a reduction in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, primarily due to the timing of the Medicare Advance payments in connection with CARES Act relief funding. Borrowing levels are expected to increase over the period the Medicare Advance is required to be recouped. The remaining decrease in interest expense of $33.5 million is principally due to lease amendments entered in 2019 and early 2020 that resulted in modifications to the accounting for certain leases, converting them from financing leases with interest expense to operating leases presented as lease expense. Income tax benefit For the six months ended June 30, 2020, we recorded income tax benefit of $1.2 million from continuing operations representing an effective tax rate of (15.2)% compared to an income tax benefit of $0.1 million from continuing operations, representing an effective tax rate of 0.3% for the same period in 2019. There is a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, excluding our deferred tax asset on our Bermuda captive insurance companys discounted unpaid loss reserve. Previously, in assessing the requirement for, and amount of, a valuation allowance in accordance with the standard, we determined it was more likely than not we would not realize our deferred tax assets and established a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets. As of June 30, 2020, we have determined that the valuation allowance is still necessary. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. The following discussion applies to categories between net income (loss) and net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. in our consolidated statements of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests On February 2, 2015, FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC (FC-GEN) combined with Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. and the combined results were consolidated with approximately 42.0% direct noncontrolling economic interest shown as noncontrolling interest in the financial statements of the combined entity. The direct noncontrolling economic interest is in the form of Class C common stock of FC-GEN that are exchangeable on a 1-to-1 basis to our public shares. The direct noncontrolling economic interest will continue to decrease as Class C common stock of FC-GEN are exchanged for public shares. Since the combination, there have been conversions of 9.0 million Class C common stock, leaving a remaining direct noncontrolling economic interest of approximately 32.9%. For the six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, loss of $(0.6) million and $(12.2) million, respectively, has been attributed to the Class C common stock. In addition to the noncontrolling interests attributable to the Class C common stock holders, our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all entities controlled by us through our ownership of a majority voting interest and the accounts of any VIEs where we are subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the VIE's activities, or entitled to receive a majority of the 68 Table of Contents entity's residual returns, or both. We adjust net income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. to exclude the net income attributable to the third party ownership interests of the VIEs. For the six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, loss of $(1.5) million and $(1.8) million, respectively, has been attributed to these unaffiliated third parties. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow and Liquidity The following table presents selected data from our consolidated statements of cash flows (in thousands): Six months ended June 30, 2020 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 340,597 $ 36,081 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 146,602 (162,208) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (247,629) 80,642 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and equivalents 239,570 (45,485) Beginning of period 125,806 142,276 End of period $ 365,376 $ 96,791 Net cash provided by operating activities in the six months ended June 30, 2020 increased $304.5 million compared with the same period in 2019. The six months ended June 30, 2020 include receipt of Medicare advances of $156.8 million and $36.0 million from the deferral of payroll taxes under the CARES Act. The remaining increase in cash provided by operating activities is attributed to a combination of state and federal COVID-19 grants, offset by the cost and lost revenue caused by COVID-19 and the timing of payments. Net cash provided by investing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2020 was $146.6 million compared to net cash used in investing activities of $162.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019. Routine capital expenditures for the six months ended June 30, 2020 decreased by $4.5 million as compared with the same period in the prior year. Net sales and maturities of marketable securities of $6.8 million in 2020 exceeded net purchases of marketable securities of $6.8 million in 2019, resulting in a net change in cash provided of $13.6 million. In the six months ended June 30, 2020, there were asset purchases of $9.8 million primarily as a result of the acquisition of one skilled nursing facility by the consolidated Vantage Point Partnership as described in Significant Transaction and Events compared to asset sales of $207.8 million comprised primarily of the real property of 13 owned facilities and leasehold rights of 13 leased facilities described in Significant Transaction and Events . In the six months ended June 30, 2019, there were asset purchases of $252.5 million by the consolidated Next Partnership and its acquisition of 22 skilled nursing facilities and asset sale proceeds of $79.0 million resulting from the simultaneous sale of seven skilled nursing facilities. The six months ended June 30, 2019 also included $55.4 million in proceeds from the sale of five skilled nursing facilities in California. The six months ended June 30, 2020 also included cash used of $16.9 million for an investment in a new joint venture and cash used of $9.0 million extending the new joint venture a loan as described in Significant Transaction and Events. The remaining incremental source of cash in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared to the same period in the prior year of $0.6 million was due primarily to restricted deposit and notes receivable activity. Net cash used in financing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2020 was $247.6 million compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $80.6 million in the June 30, 2019. The net increase in cash used in financing activities of $328.3 million is principally attributed to debt repayments exceeding new borrowings in the six months ended June 30, 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019. In the six months ended June 30, 2020, we had proceeds from the issuance of debt of $34.0 million, consisting primarily of $7.3 million by the consolidated Vantage Point Partnership and $26.1 million in HUD refinancings by our consolidated Next Partnership. In the six months ended June 30, 2019, we had proceeds from the issuance of debt of $170.6 million primarily from the consolidated Next Partnership. Repayment of long-term debt in the six months ended June 30, 2020 was $141.5 million compared to $90.0 million in the same period of the prior year. In the six months ended June 30, 2020, we repaid $74.5 million in HUD-insured loans, $21.6 million in MidCap Real Estate Loans, $9.0 million in Welltower Real Estate Loans, $9.0 million in a short-term note payable and $24.5 million in term loan paydowns associated with the consolidated Next Partnership. In the six months ended June 30, 2019, we repaid $27.7 million in MidCap Real Estate Loans and $14.2 million in HUD-insured loans using proceeds from the sale of five skilled nursing facilities in California and reduced the term loan facility of the ABL Credit Facilities by $40.0 million while increasing the revolving credit facilities by the same amount. The remaining decrease in cash used to repay long-term debt of $5.2 million relates to a decrease in routine debt payments. In the six months ended June 30, 2020, we had net repayments under the revolving credit facilities of $136.0 million as compared with $10.9 million of net repayments under the revolving credit facilities in the same period in 2019. In the six months ended June 30, 2020, we paid debt issuance costs of $0.5 69 Table of Contents million from the consolidated Vantage Point Partnership. In the six months ended June 30, 2019, we paid debt issuance costs of $3.7 million from the consolidated Next Partnership. In the six months ended June 30, 2019, we received contributions from a noncontrolling interest for $18.5 million resulting from the aforementioned Next Partnership. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and borrowings under our asset based lending facilities (ABL Credit Facilities). The objectives of our capital planning strategy are to ensure we maintain adequate liquidity and flexibility. Pursuing and achieving those objectives allow us to support the execution of our operating and strategic plans and weather temporary disruptions in the capital markets and general business environment. Maintaining adequate liquidity is a function of our results of operations, restricted and unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and our available borrowing capacity. At June 30, 2020, we had total liquidity of $282.9 million consisting of cash on hand of $275.0 million and available borrowings under our ABL Credit Facilities of $7.9 million. During the six months ended June 30, 2020, we maintained liquidity sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and development activities. COVID-19 Impact on Liquidity We have taken, and will continue to take, actions to enhance and preserve our liquidity in response to the pandemic. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 , our usual sources of liquidity have been supplemented by grants and advanced Medicare payments under programs expanded or created under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act). Specifically, in April 2020, we applied for and received $156.8 million of advanced Medicare payments and in April and May 2020 received $185.5 million of relief grants. In addition, we have elected to implement the CARES Act payroll tax deferral program, which has preserved, on an interest free basis, approximately $36 million of cash through June 30, 2020. The advance Medicare payments of $156.8 million, which are also interest free, are scheduled to be recouped between August 2020 and November 2020, while one-half of the payroll tax deferral amount will become due on each of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2022. In addition to relief funding under the CARES Act, funding has been committed by a number of states in which we operate, currently estimated at $47.2 million, since the outset of the pandemic. These sources of cash provided by federal and state governments have and will continue to be used to fund the impact of escalating expenses and the net effect of lost revenue caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. We continue to seek opportunities to enhance and preserve our liquidity, including through reducing expenses, continuing to evaluate our capital structure, pursuing strategic liquidity enhancing transactions and seeking further government-sponsored financial relief related to the pandemic. We cannot provide assurance that such efforts will be successful or adequate to offset the lost revenue and escalating operating expenses as a result of the pandemic. Liquidity and Going Concern Considerations We performed an assessment to determine whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date the financial statements are issued. Initially, this assessment does not consider the potential mitigating effect of managements plans that have not been fully implemented. When substantial doubt exists, management assesses the mitigating effect of our plans to determine if it is probable that (1) the plans will be effectively implemented within one year after the date the financial statements are issued, and (2) when implemented, the plans will mitigate the relevant conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entitys ability to continue as a going concern. In completing our going concern assessment, we considered the uncertainties around the impact of COVID-19 on our future results of operations as well as our current financial condition and liquidity sources, including current funds available, forecasted future cash flows and our conditional and unconditional obligations due within 12 months following the date our financial statements were issued. Without giving effect to the prospect, timing and adequacy of future governmental funding support and other mitigating plans, many of which are beyond our control, it is unlikely that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our required financial obligations, including our rent obligations, our debt service obligations and other obligations due to third parties. The existence of these conditions raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. 70 Table of Contents In response to COVID-19, we have taken the following measures to improve our liquidity position: We applied for and received government-sponsored financial relief related to the pandemic; We are utilizing the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act of 2020 (CARES Act) payroll tax deferral program to delay payment of a portion of payroll taxes incurred through December 2020, 50% to be repaid by December 31, 2021 and 50% to be repaid by December 31, 2022; While we vigorously advocate, for ourself and the skilled nursing industry, regarding the need for additional government sponsored funding, we continue to explore and take advantage of existing government sponsored funding programs implemented to support businesses impacted by COVID-19; We continue to implement measures to adapt successfully our operational model to function for the long-term in a COVID-19 environment; and We have pursued, and will continue to pursue, creative and accretive opportunities to sell assets and enter into joint venture structures in order to provide liquidity. These measures and other plans and initiatives of ours are designed to provide us with adequate liquidity to meet our obligations for at least the twelve-month period following the date our financial statements are issued. However, such plans and initiatives are dependent on factors that are beyond our control or may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Accordingly, management determined it could not be certain that the plans and initiatives would be effectively implemented within one year after the date the financial statements are issued. Further, even if we receive additional funding support from government sources and/or are able to execute successfully all of our plans and initiatives, given the current challenging environment our operating plans and resulting cash flows along with our cash and cash equivalents and other sources of liquidity may not be sufficient to fund operations for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued, which could force us to seek reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. As such, the accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of assets and their carrying amounts, or the amount and classification of liabilities that may result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Risk and Uncertainties Although we are in compliance with the covenants required by our material debt and lease agreements at June 30, 2020, the ongoing uncertainty related to the impact of healthcare reform initiatives and the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic may have an adverse impact on our ability to remain in compliance with our financial covenants through August 10, 2021. Without giving effect to the prospect of timely and adequate future governmental funding support and other mitigating plans, many of which are beyond our control, it is unlikely that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our required financial obligations, including our rent obligations, our debt service obligations and other obligations due to third parties. The existence of these conditions raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. There can be no assurance that the confluence of these and other factors will not impede our ability to meet our debt and lease covenants in the future. Financing Activities Divestiture of Non-Strategic Facilities Consistent with our strategy to divest assets in non-strategic markets, we have exited 44 inpatient operations, including 37 skilled nursing facilities, two assisted/senior living facilities and five behavioral health centers in 11 states beginning January 1, 2020 through August 1, 2020, including: The sale of three owned skilled nursing facilities located in North Carolina and Maryland on February 1, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $24.9 million. 71 Table of Contents The transition of operational responsibility for 19 facilities in the states of California, Washington and Nevada to NewGen on February 1, 2020. The transaction included the sale of the real estate and operations of six skilled nursing facilities and transfer of the leasehold rights to seven skilled nursing, five behavioral health centers and one assisted living facility. A gain was recognized totaling $58.8 million. The sale of one owned skilled nursing facility located in California on February 26, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $3.0 million. The lease termination of one assisted/senior living facility located in Montana on March 4, 2020. A de minimis loss was recognized. The sale of three owned skilled nursing facilities located in New Jersey and Maryland on April 1, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $21.7 million. The lease termination of two skilled nursing facilities located in Montana on April 1, 2020. A loss was recognized totaling $0.8 million. The lease termination of six skilled nursing facilities located in Florida and Maryland on April 20, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $11.2 million. The transition of operational responsibility for four additional leased facilities in California to NewGen on May 15, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $5.1 million. The lease termination of six skilled nursing facilities located in Idaho on June 1, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $5.3 million. The sale of one owned skilled nursing facility located in Rhode Island on July 6, 2020. An initial loss was recognized totaling $0.5 million. Financial Covenants The ABL Credit Facilities, the Term Loan Agreement and the Welltower Real Estate Loans (collectively, the Credit Facilities) each contain a number of financial, affirmative and negative covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and minimum liquidity. At June 30, 2020, we were in compliance with all of the financial covenants contained in the Credit Facilities. We have master lease agreements with Welltower, Omega and Second Spring (collectively, the Master Lease Agreements). Our Master Lease Agreements each contain a number of financial, affirmative and negative covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and minimum liquidity. At June 30, 2020, we were in compliance with the covenants contained in the Master Lease Agreements. We have two master lease agreements with Cindat Best Years Welltower JV LLC involving 28 of our facilities. We did not meet certain financial covenants contained in one of the master lease agreements involving two of our facilities at June 30, 2020. In July 2020, we received a waiver for these covenant breaches through October 1, 2021. At June 30, 2020, we are in compliance with the financial covenants contained in the other master lease agreement. At June 30, 2020, we did not meet certain financial covenants contained in two leases related to four of our facilities. We are current in the timely payment of our obligations under such leases. These leases do not have cross-default provisions, nor do they trigger cross-default provisions in any of our other loan or lease agreements. We will continue to work with the related credit parties to amend such leases and the related financial covenants. We do not believe the breach of such financial covenants has a material adverse impact on us at June 30, 2020. Our ability to maintain compliance with our covenants depends in part on managements ability to increase revenue and control costs, and the extent to which our efforts and the impact of government-sponsored financial relief related to the COVID-19 pandemic aqequately and timely offset lost revenue and higher costs caused by the pandemic. Due to continuing changes in the healthcare industry, as well as the uncertainty with respect to changing referral patterns, patient mix, and reimbursement rates, it is possible that future operating performance may not generate sufficient operating results to maintain compliance with our quarterly covenant compliance requirements. Should we fail to comply with our covenants at a future measurement date, we would, absent necessary and timely waivers and/or amendments, be in default under certain of our existing credit agreements. To the extent any cross-default provisions may apply, the default would have a significant impact on our financial position. See Liquidity and Going Concern Considerations . 72 Table of Contents Concentration of Credit Risk We are exposed to the credit risk of our third-party customers, many of whom are in similar lines of business as us and are exposed to the same systemic industry risks of operations as we are, resulting in a concentration of risk. These include organizations that utilize our rehabilitation services, staffing services and physician service offerings, engage in similar business activities or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations, including those to us, to be similarly affected by changes in regulatory and systemic industry conditions. Management assesses its exposure to loss on accounts at the customer level. The greatest concentration of risk exists in our rehabilitation therapy services business where we have over 140 distinct customers, many being chain operators with more than one location. One customer, which is a related party of ours, comprises $31.0 million, or approximately 40%, of the gross outstanding contract receivables in the rehabilitation services business at June 30, 2020. See Note 11 Related Party Transactions. A future adverse event impacting this customer or several other large customers resulting in their insolvency or other economic distress would have a material impact on us. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2020, we were subject to six lease guarantees whereby we guarantee all payments and performance obligations of six facilities leased by the NewGen Partnership. As of June 30, 2020, the six leases have undiscounted cash rent obligations remaining of $87.9 million. As of December 31, 2019, we were not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future impact on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expense, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.