Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to assist in understanding and assessing the trends and significant changes in our results of operations and financial condition as of the dates and for the periods presented and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Item 1, Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. As used in this MD&A, the words we, our, us and the Company, and similar terms, refer collectively to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report, as well as the financial information and MD&A contained in our Annual Report (defined below). All statements included or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements contain words such as may, will, project, might, expect, believe, anticipate, intend, could, would, estimate, continue, pursue, plans or prospect, or the negative or other variations thereof or comparable terminology. They include, but are not limited to, statements about the Companys expectations and beliefs regarding its future operations and financial performance. Historical results may not indicate future performance. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events, and there can be no assurance that they will be achieved or occur, in whole or in part, in the timeframes anticipated by the Company or at all. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties that cannot be predicted or quantified and, consequently, the actual performance of the Company may differ materially from that expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, particularly in Item 1A, Risk Factors, which was filed with the SEC on March 16, 2020 (the Annual Report), and those discussed in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2020 and June 30, 2020, particularly in Item 1A, Risk Factors, which were filed with the SEC on May 27, 2020 and August 10, 2020, respectively, as well as others that are discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, natural disasters, general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operations, liquidity and stock price. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are made only as of the date of this report. The Company disclaims any obligation to update the forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Business Overview Genesis is a healthcare services holding company that, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities and a rehabilitation therapy business. We have an administrative services company that provides a full complement of administrative and consultative services that allows our affiliated operators and third-party operators with whom we contract to better focus on delivery of healthcare services. At September 30, 2020, we provided inpatient services through 360 skilled nursing, senior/assisted living and behavioral health centers located in 25 states. Revenues of our owned, leased and otherwise consolidated inpatient businesses constitute approximately 86% of our revenues. We also provide a range of rehabilitation therapy services, including speech pathology, physical therapy, occupational therapy and respiratory therapy. These services are provided by rehabilitation therapists and assistants employed or contracted at substantially all of the centers operated by us, as well as by contract to healthcare facilities operated by others. After the elimination of intercompany revenues, the rehabilitation therapy services business constitutes approximately 10% of our revenues. We provide an array of other specialty medical services, including management services, physician services, staffing services, and other healthcare related services, which comprise the balance of our revenues. Going Concern Considerations On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic. COVID-19 is a complex and previously unknown virus which disproportionately impacts older adults, particularly those having other underlying health conditions. 44 Table of Contents Our primary focus as the effects of COVID-19 began to impact the United States was the health and safety of our patients, residents, employees and their respective families. We implemented various measures to provide the safest possible environment within our sites of service during this pandemic and will continue to do so. The United States broadly continues to experience the pandemic caused by COVID-19, which has significantly disrupted, and likely will continue to disrupt for some period, the nations economy, the healthcare industry and our businesses. The rapid spread of the virus has led to the implementation of various responses, including federal, state and local government-imposed quarantines, shelter-in-place mandates, sweeping restrictions on travel, and substantial changes to selected protocols within the healthcare system across the United States. A significant number of our facilities and operations are geographically located and highly concentrated in markets with close proximity to areas of the United States that have experienced widespread and severe COVID-19 outbreaks. COVID-19 is having and will likely continue to have a material and adverse effect on our operations and supply chains, resulting in a reduction in our operating occupancy and related revenues, and an increase in our expenditures. We performed an assessment to determine whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date the financial statements are issued. Initially, this assessment does not consider the potential mitigating effect of managements plans that have not been fully implemented. When substantial doubt exists, management assesses the mitigating effect of our plans to determine if it is probable that (1) the plans will be effectively implemented within one year after the date the financial statements are issued, and (2) when implemented, the plans will mitigate the relevant conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entitys ability to continue as a going concern. In completing our going concern assessment, we considered the uncertainties around the impact of COVID-19 on our future results of operations as well as our current financial condition and liquidity sources, including current funds available, forecasted future cash flows and our conditional and unconditional obligations due within 12 months following the date our financial statements were issued. Without giving effect to the prospect, timing and adequacy of future governmental funding support and other mitigating plans, many of which are beyond our control, it is unlikely that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our required financial obligations, including our rent and debt obligations, and maintain compliance with financial covenants. The existence of these conditions raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. In response to COVID-19, and other conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, we have taken the following measures: We applied for and received government-sponsored financial relief related to the pandemic; We are utilizing the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act of 2020 (CARES Act) payroll tax deferral program to delay payment of a portion of payroll taxes incurred through December 2020, with 50% to be repaid in December 2021 and the remaining 50% to be repaid in December 2022; While we vigorously advocate, for ourself and the skilled nursing industry, regarding the need for additional government-sponsored funding, we continue to explore and to take advantage of existing government-sponsored funding programs implemented to support businesses impacted by COVID-19; We continue to seek and implement measures to adapt our operational model to function for the long-term in a COVID-19 environment; We have pursued, and will continue to pursue, creative and accretive opportunities to sell assets and enter into joint venture structures in order to provide liquidity; and We are exploring and evaluating a number of strategic and other alternatives to manage and to improve our liquidity position, in order to address the maturity of material indebtedness and other obligations over the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. These measures and other plans and initiatives of ours are designed to provide us with adequate liquidity to meet our obligations for at least the twelve-month period following the date our financial statements are issued. However, such plans and initiatives are dependent on factors that are beyond our control or may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Accordingly, management determined it could not be certain that the plans and initiatives would be effectively implemented within one year after the date the financial statements are issued. Further, even if we receive additional funding support from government sources and/or are able to execute successfully all of our plans and initiatives, given the unpredictable nature of, and the operating challenges presented by, the COVID-19 virus, our operating plans and resulting cash flows together with our cash and cash equivalents and 45 Table of Contents other sources of liquidity may not be sufficient to fund operations for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. Such events and circumstances could force us to seek reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. As such, the accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of assets and their carrying amounts, or the amount and classification of liabilities that may result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Significant Transactions and Events COVID-19 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has stated that older adults, such as our patients, are at a higher risk for serious illness and death from COVID-19. In addition, our employees are at higher risk of contracting or spreading the disease due to the nature of the work environment when caring for patients. In an effort to prevent the introduction of COVID-19 into our facilities, and to help control further exposure to infections within communities, we have implemented policies restricting visitors at all of our facilities except for essential healthcare personnel and certain end-of-life situations. We also implemented policies for screening employees and anyone permitted to enter the building, implemented in-room only dining, activities programming and therapy. Upon confirmation of a positive COVID-19 exposure at a facility, our policy is to follow government guidance to minimize further exposure, including implementing personal protection protocols, restricting new admissions, and isolating patients. Due to the vulnerable nature of our patients, we expect many of these restrictions will continue at our facilities, even as federal, state, and local stay-at-home and social distancing orders and recommendations are relaxed. Notwithstanding these restrictions and our other response efforts, the virus has had, and likely will continue to have, introduction to, and transmission within, certain facilities due to the easily transmissible nature of COVID-19. COVID-19 has materially and adversely affected our operations and supply chains, resulting in a reduction in our operating occupancy and related revenues, and an increase in our expenditures. Although the ultimate impact of the pandemic remains uncertain, the following disclosures serve to outline the estimated impact of COVID-19 on our business through September 30, 2020, as well as further developments through the filing date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the impact of emergency legislation, temporary changes to regulations and reimbursements issued in response to COVID-19. Operations Our first report of a positive case of COVID-19 in one of our facilities occurred on March 16, 2020. Since that time, 266 of our 360 facilities have experienced one or more positive cases of COVID-19 among patients and residents. Over 70% of the patient and resident positive COVID-19 cases in our facilities have occurred in the states of New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Maryland, which correspond to many of the largest community outbreak areas across the country. Our facilities in these five states represent 45% of our total operating beds. Our occupancy decreased in the early months of the pandemic following the efforts by referring hospitals to cancel or reschedule elective procedures in anticipation of an increasing number of COVID-19 cases in their communities. As the pandemic progressed, occupancy was further decreased by, among other things, implementation of both self-imposed and state or local admission holds in facilities having exposure to positive cases of COVID-19 among patients, residents and employees. These self-imposed, and sometimes mandatory, restrictions on admissions were instituted to limit risks of potential spread of the virus by individuals that either tested positive for COVID-19, exhibited symptoms of COVID-19 but had not yet been tested positive due to a severe shortage of testing materials, or were asymptomatic of COVID-19 but potentially positive and contagious. 46 Table of Contents Net Revenues Our net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 were materially and adversely impacted by a significant decline in occupancy as a result of COVID-19. Our skilled nursing facility operating occupancy decreased from 88.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 to 75.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2020. However, the revenue lost from the decline in occupancy was partially offset by incremental state sponsored funding programs, changes in payor mix, and the enactment of COVID-19 relief programs, as discussed below. See Industry Trends and Recent Regulatory Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue - COVID-19 Regulatory and Reimbursement Relief. After considering a commensurate reduction in related and direct operating expenses, we estimate lost revenue caused by COVID-19 reduced earnings by approximately $71.0 million and $145.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively. The impact of COVID-19 on our occupancy and net revenues for the remainder of 2020 will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the pace of recovery in occupancy, the future scope and severity of COVID-19 and the actions taken by public and private entities in response to the pandemic. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 were materially and adversely impacted due to increases in costs as a result of the pandemic, with more dramatic increases occurring at facilities with positive COVID-19 cases among patients, residents and employees. During the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2020, we estimate we incurred approximately $52.0 million and $205.0 million, respectively, of incremental operating expenses in response to the pandemic. Increases in cost primarily stemmed from higher labor costs, including increased use of overtime and bonus pay, as well as a significant increase in both the cost and usage of personal protective equipment, workers compensation, testing, medical equipment, enhanced cleaning and environmental sanitation costs, the impact of utilizing less efficient modes of providing therapy in order to avoid the grouping of patients. Additionally, the future cost of securing adequate insurance coverages through annual renewals may be significantly higher than existing coverages, and the same level of coverage may no longer be available or affordable. This includes workers compensation and general and professional liability coverages, which are requirements in most states in which we operate. We are not reasonably able to predict the total amount of costs we will incur related to the pandemic and to what extent such incremental costs can be reduced or will be borne by or offset by actions taken by public and private entities in response to the pandemic. Strategic Partnerships Vantage Point Partnership On January 10, 2020, Welltower, Inc. (Welltower) sold the real estate of one skilled nursing facility located in Massachusetts to the Vantage Point Partnership. The sale represents the final component of a transaction that occurred on September 12, 2019, whereby we acquired an approximately 30% membership interest in the partnership, which acquired the real estate of 18 facilities previously leased from Welltower and Second Spring Healthcare Investments (Second Spring). As a result of the January 10, 2020 transaction, we will receive an annual rent credit of $0.7 million from Welltower and recorded a gain of $0.2 million as a result of the lease termination. The Vantage Point Partnership acquired this skilled nursing facility for a purchase price of $9.1 million. The consolidation of this additional skilled nursing facility primarily resulted in property and equipment of $9.1 million, non-recourse debt of $7.3 million with the balance of the purchase price settled primarily with proceeds held in escrow from the September 12, 2019 closing. We operate all 19 facilities owned by the Vantage Point Partnership. NewGen Partnership On February 1, 2020, we transitioned operational responsibility for 19 facilities in the states of California, Washington and Nevada to a partnership with New Generation Health, LLC (the NewGen Partnership). We sold the real estate and operations of six skilled nursing facilities and transferred the operations to 13 skilled nursing, behavioral health and assisted living facilities for $78.7 million. Net transaction proceeds were used by us to repay indebtedness, including prepayment penalties, of $33.7 million, fund our initial 50% equity contribution and working capital requirement of $14.9 million, and provide financing to the partnership of $9.0 million. We recorded a gain on sale of assets and transition of leased facilities of $58.8 million and loss on early extinguishment of 47 Table of Contents debt of $1.0 million. Concurrently, the facilities have entered, or will enter upon regulatory approval, into management services agreements with NewGen for the day-to-day operations of the facilities. We will continue to provide administrative and back office services to the facilities pursuant to administrative support agreements, as well as therapy services pursuant to therapy services agreements. We do not hold a controlling financial interest in the NewGen Partnership. As such, we have applied the equity method of accounting for our 50% interest in the NewGen Partnership. Our investment in the NewGen Partnership, $23.9 million, is included within other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2020. On May 15, 2020, we transitioned operational responsibility for four additional leased facilities in California to the NewGen Partnership. The four facilities generated annual revenues of $55.0 million and pre-tax loss of $0.5 million. On October 1, 2020, we transitioned operational responsibility for one additional leased facility in the state of Washington to the NewGen Partnership. The facility generated annual revenues of $12.3 million and pre-tax income of $0.2 million. Subsequent to the transition of these five facilities, we have applied the equity method of accounting for our 50% interest in these operations. Cascade Partnership On July 2, 2020, we sold one facility to an affiliate of Cascade Capital Group, LLC (Cascade) for $26.1 million, using proceeds from the sale to retire U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) financed debt of $10.5 million, pay aggregate prepayment penalties and other closing costs of $1.0 million, and partially fund our investment in a partnership with Cascade (the Cascade Partnership). Cascade also acquired eight facilities that we operated under a master lease agreement with Second Spring. We continue to operate all nine of these facilities subject to a new master lease agreement with affiliates of Cascade. The master lease agreement contains an initial term of 10 years with one five-year renewal option and base rent of $20.7 million with no rent escalators for the first five years and annual rent escalators of 2.5% thereafter. We also obtained a fixed price option to purchase the nine facilities for $251.6 million that is exercisable from July 2023 through June 2025. We executed a promissory note with Cascade for $20.3 million, which was subsequently converted into a 49% membership interest in the Cascade Partnership. We also hold a subordinated equity interest in the Cascade Partnership of $10.0 million. The Cascade Partnership is a VIE of which we are the primary beneficiary. Consequently, we have consolidated all of the accounts of the Cascade Partnership in the accompanying financial statements. Additionally, all leasing activity associated with the master lease has been fully eliminated in consolidation. The Cascade Partnership acquired all nine skilled nursing facilities for an aggregate purchase price of $223.6 million. The initial consolidation primarily resulted in property and equipment of $208.6 million, non-recourse debt of $190.3 million, net of debt issuance costs, and noncontrolling interests of $21.2 million. We have not finalized the analysis of the consideration and purchase price allocation and will continue to review this during the measurement period. The net impact of consolidating the Cascade Partnership was not material to the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020. Divestiture of Non-Strategic Facilities On January 31, 2020, Omega Healthcare Investors, Inc. (Omega) sold the real estate of one skilled nursing facility located in Massachusetts. We leased the facility under a master lease agreement but closed the facility on July 1, 2019. The sale resulted in a gain on the lease termination of $0.2 million and an annual rent credit of $0.4 million. On February 1, 2020, we sold two owned skilled nursing facilities in North Carolina and one owned skilled nursing facility in Maryland for $61.8 million. Proceeds were used to retire $29.1 million of U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) financed debt. The three facilities generated revenues of $38.7 million and pre-tax income of $0.5 million. The transactions resulted in a gain on sale of $24.5 million and loss on early extinguishment of debt of $2.6 million. On February 26, 2020, we completed the sale of one owned HUD-insured skilled nursing facility in California for $20.8 million. The facility had been classified as an asset held for sale as of December 31, 2019. Proceeds were used to retire $20.5 million of HUD financed debt. The facility generated revenues of $14.0 million and pre-tax loss of $0.1 million. See Note 14 Assets Held for Sale . The transactions resulted in a gain on sale of $3.0 million and loss on early extinguishment of debt of $0.4 million. 48 Table of Contents On March 4, 2020, we divested the operations of one leased assisted/senior living facility in Montana. The lease termination resulted in an annual rent credit of $0.7 million. The facility generated revenues of $2.5 million and pre-tax income of $0.1 million. On April 1, 2020, we sold two owned skilled nursing facilities in New Jersey and one owned skilled nursing facility in Maryland for $45.8 million. Proceeds were used to retire $15.2 million of HUD financed debt and $7.5 million of MidCap Real Estate Loans. The three facilities generated annual revenues of $35.8 million and pre-tax income was de minimis. The transactions resulted in a gain on sale of $21.8 million and loss on early extinguishment of debt of $1.4 million. On April 1, 2020, we divested the operations and terminated the lease of two skilled nursing facilities in Montana. The two facilities generated annual revenues of $18.8 million and pre-tax income of $0.4 million. The lease termination resulted in an annual rent credit of $1.1 million. On April 20, 2020, we divested the operations of four skilled nursing facilities in Florida and two skilled nursing facilities in Maryland that were subject to a master lease with Second Spring. The six facilities generated annual revenues of $62.0 million and pre-tax loss of $2.3 million. The lease termination resulted in a net annual rent credit of $8.5 million. On June 1, 2020, we divested the operations of four leased skilled nursing facilities in Idaho that were subject to a master lease with Omega. The four facilities generated annual revenues of $19.5 million and pre-tax income of $0.1 million. The lease termination resulted in an annual rent credit of $1.4 million. On July 6, 2020, we sold a skilled nursing facility in Rhode Island for $10.5 million, resulting in a gain on sale of $6.1 million. Proceeds were used to retire $5.5 million of MidCap Real Estate Loans. The facility generated annual revenues of $9.9 million and pre-tax income of $0.2 million. On October 15, 2020, we divested the operations of two leased skilled nursing facilities in Connecticut that were subject to a master lease. The two facilities generated annual revenues of $18.9 million and pre-tax income of $0.1 million. The lease termination resulted no annual rent credit. On October 30, 2020, we sold the real property and divested the operations of five owned facilities in Vermont for $46.6 million. Proceeds were used to retire $8.1 million of HUD insured loans and $14.3 million of MidCap Real Estate Loans. The five facilities generated annual revenues of $47.4 million and pre-tax loss of $2.7 million. On November 1, 2020, we divested the operations and terminated the lease of one skilled nursing facility in Rhode Island. The facility generated annual revenues of $12.3 million and pre-tax income of $0.1 million. The lease termination resulted in an annual rent credit of $0.3 million. Industry Trends and Recent Regulatory Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue COVID-19 Regulatory and Reimbursement Relief On March 18, 2020, the Families First Coronavirus Response Act was enacted, which provided a temporary 6.2% increase to each qualifying states Medicaid Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) effective January 1, 2020. The temporary FMAP increase will extend through the last day of the calendar quarter of the COVID-19 public health emergency declared by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), including any extensions or termination, which currently expires January 20, 2021. As part of the requirements for receiving the temporary FMAP increase, states must cover testing services and treatments for COVID-19 and may not impose deductibles, copayments, coinsurance or other cost sharing charges for any quarter in which the temporarily increased FMAP is claimed. Further, a number of additional states in which we operate have implemented incremental FMAP related reimbursement provisions and other forms of support to assist providers. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, we recognized as net revenues in the consolidated statements of operations, of approximately $30.0 million and $76.0 million, respectively, of additional FMAP reimbursement relief. We cannot predict the extent to which further FMAP funding programs will be implemented in the states in which we operate. In further response to the pandemic, on March 27, 2020, the President signed into law the bipartisan CARES Act, which authorized the cash distribution of relief funds to reimburse healthcare providers for health care related expenses or lost revenues that are attributable to coronavirus. Nursing facility operators participating in Medicare and Medicaid may be eligible to receive 49 Table of Contents compensation for costs incurred in the course of providing medical services, such as those related to obtaining personal protective equipment, COVID-19 related testing supplies, and increased staffing or training, provided that such costs are not compensated by another source. The secretary of HHS has broad authority and discretion to determine payment eligibility and the amount of such payments. Further, the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act was signed into law on April 24, 2020. Congress appropriated $75.0 billion for healthcare providers through the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act. HHS is distributing this money through the Provider Relief Fund, and these payments do not need to be repaid. While we believe that the relief funds received by us to date under the CARES Act have primarily benefited Medicare providers as opposed to Medicaid providers and have provided limited support to our rehabilitation therapy services segment, we cannot predict the extent to which any of our businesses will receive any such additional funds, and to what extent the financial impact of receiving such funds would effectively offset any shortfall in funds received to date as compared to the escalation in our costs and lost revenue as a result of the broad implications of the pandemic. We were impacted by certain provisions of the CARES Act, as summarized below. Temporary suspension of certain patient coverage criteria and documentation and care requirements . The CARES Act and a series of temporary waivers and guidance issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) suspend various Medicare patient coverage criteria as well as certain documentation and care requirements. These accommodations are intended to ensure patients have access to care notwithstanding the burdens placed on healthcare providers due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe these regulatory actions could contribute to an increase in census volumes and skilled mix that may not otherwise have occurred, but cannot provide any assurance as to the impact on our businesses. Relief Funds. The CARES Act authorized HHS to distribute relief fund grants to healthcare providers to support healthcare-related expenses or lost revenue attributable to COVID-19. HHS has made several rounds of distributions to providers based upon a variety of factors and providers have been able to apply for additional funding. To retain the funds, providers must submit an attestation accepting certain terms and conditions. During April 2020, we first began receiving relief grants from CARES Act funds administered by HHS. Through September 30, 2020, we have received $190.9 million in these initial relief grants, the majority of which are related to skilled nursing care provided through our Inpatient Services segment. On July 22, 2020, President Trump announced an additional $5 billion relief fund to be used to protect residents of long term care facilities and nursing homes from the impact of COVID-19. The $5 billion relief fund included: o Approximately $2.5 billion in payments to be used primarily to support increased testing and meet staffing and personal protective equipment needs. During the third quarter of 2020, we received $57.9 million of relief grants under the program. o Five subsequent distributions as part of the Quality Incentive Payments Program (QIP). In order to qualify for payments under QIP, a facility must have an active state certification as a nursing home or skilled nursing facility and receive reimbursement from CMS. HHS will administer quality checks on nursing home certification status to identify and remove facilities that have a terminated, expired, or revoked certification or enrollment. Facilities must also report to at least one of three data sources that will be used to establish eligibility and collect necessary provider data to inform payment. The QIP Program is scheduled to be divided into five performance periods (September, October, November, December 2020 and the last period will be for the combined four months of September 2020 December 2020). Currently, it is anticipated that the payment amounts designated for each of these five periods may vary, however the total payments are expected to equal $2 billion. All nursing homes or skilled nursing facilities meeting the previously noted qualifications will be eligible for each of the performance periods. o $250 million of the funds is to be allocated for distribution to COVID only facilities. o $250 million of the funds will be part of a program for providers that participate in approved training programs to better enable nursing home employees to administer COVID-19-related safety practices. On June 9, 2020 as part of its ongoing efforts to provide financial relief to healthcare providers impacted by COVID-19, HHS announced the Phase 2 general distribution to Medicaid, Medicaid managed care, Children's Health Insurance 50 Table of Contents Program (CHIP) and dental providers. HHS anticipates distributing approximately $15.0 billion to eligible providers that participate in state Medicaid and CHIP programs that did not receive a payment from the Provider Relief Fund General Allocation (Phase 1). Eligible applicants will receive 2% of Gross Revenues from Patient Care for calendar years 2017, 2018 or 2019 as selected by applicant. We have submitted applications for our assisted living facilities that meet the eligibility criteria. Medicare Accelerated and Advanced Payment Program. During the second quarter of 2020, we applied for and received $156.8 million of interest free advanced Medicare payments. These payments will be subsequently recouped over time as revenue is recognized for claims submitted for services provided to Medicare patients. In October 2020, CMS extended the recoupment period to begin one year from the date the advanced payments were issued. Our recoupment period for the advanced payments is expected to be from April 2021 to February 2022. We have reported advanced payments of $82.4 million and $73.4 million within accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities, respectively, in the consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2020. Payroll Tax Deferral . Under the CARES Act, we have elected to defer payment, on an interest free basis, of the employer portion of social security payroll taxes incurred from March 27, 2020 to December 31, 2020. One-half of such deferral amount will become due on each of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2022. We have presented the balance of deferred payroll taxes, $64.7 million, within other long term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2020. We estimate the total payroll tax deferral through December 31, 2020 to approximate $90.0 million. Temporary Suspension of Medicare Sequestration . The Budget Control Act of 2011 requires a mandatory, across the board reduction in federal spending, called a sequestration. Medicare fee for service claims with dates of service or dates of discharge on or after April 1, 2013 incur a 2.0% reduction in Medicare payments. All Medicare rate payments and settlements have incurred this mandatory reduction and it will continue to remain in place through at least 2023, unless Congress takes further action. In response to COVID-19, the CARES Act temporarily suspended the automatic 2.0% reduction of Medicare claim reimbursements for the period of May 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, the suspension of sequestration resulted in net revenues of approximately $3.1 million and $5.2 million, respectively. We estimate the total increase in our revenue due to the suspension of sequestration for 2020 to be approximately $8.0 million. Employee Retention Tax Credit. The employer payroll tax credit provisions of the CARES Act grant eligible companies a credit against applicable payroll taxes for each calendar quarter in an amount equal to 50% of qualified wages with a maximum credit of $5,000 per employee. The refundable tax credit is available to employers that fully or partially suspend operations during any calendar quarter in 2020 due to orders from an appropriate governmental authority limiting commerce, travel, or group meetings due to COVID-19. Qualified employees are those who are not providing services as a result of such orders of a government authority. The impact of the employee retention tax credit program was not material for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020. COVID-19 Testing Requirements Beginning in April 2020, authorities in several states in which we operate began to mandate widespread COVID-19 testing at all nursing home and long-term care facilities. This came after the CDC stated that older adults are at a higher risk for serious illness from the coronavirus and issued updated testing guidelines for nursing homes. On July 22, 2020, CMS announced that nursing homes in states with a 5% or greater positivity rate for COVID-19 will be required to test all nursing home staff each week. On August 26, 2020, CMS issued new parameters for testing, requiring routine monthly testing of all facility staff if the facilitys county positivity rate is less than 5%; weekly testing if the county positivity rate is between 5-10%; and twice weekly testing if the county positivity rate exceeds 10%. These testing requirements are in addition to obligations to screen staff each shift, residents daily, and all persons entering the facility for signs and symptoms of COVID-19. Facilities must test any staff or resident who has signs or symptoms of COVID-19. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak in the facility, all staff and residents must be tested at regular intervals until testing identifies no new cases of COVID-19 infection among staff or residents for a 14-day period. In addition to CMS's testing mandates, some states have imposed their own testing requirements for residents and staff. Non-compliance with state or federal mandates may result in imposition of fines or other administrative action, including license revocation. 51 Table of Contents COVID-19 Reporting Requirements On April 19, 2020, CMS announced new regulatory requirements that will require skilled nursing homes to report cases of COVID-19 directly to the CDC. This information must be reported in accordance with existing privacy regulations and statues. In addition, skilled nursing homes are required to inform residents, their families and representatives of COVID-19 cases in their facilities; this notification is required to take place by 5 PM the next calendar day following the occurrence of a single confirmed infection of COVID-19, or of three or more residents or staff with new-onset of respiratory symptoms that occur within 72 hours of one another. Further, the CDC provided a reporting tool to skilled nursing homes that will support Federal efforts to collect nationwide data to assist in COVID-19 surveillance and response. There could be civil monetary penalties for not meeting these reporting requirements. Survey Activity and Enforcement On March 20, 2020, CMS announced the initiation of focused infection control surveys intended to assess long-term care facility compliance with infection control requirements in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. CMS prioritized infection control surveys over annual recertification and complaint surveys at the non-immediate jeopardy level, confirming its commitment to infection prevention and control in the skilled nursing industry. Effective August 17, 2020, CMS provided guidance authorizing resumption of traditional survey activity. On June 1, 2020, CMS introduced an enhanced enforcement program with respect to infection control deficiencies. The program contemplates more significant remedies against facilities with a prior history of infection control deficiencies, and imposes more stringent penalties with deficiencies identified at a higher scope and severity. The spectrum of remedies available to CMS for imposition on skilled nursing facilities in connection with this enhancement includes increased monetary fines, shortened time periods to return to compliance, and other administrative penalties. Independent Commission on Safety and Quality in Nursing Homes On April 30, 2020, CMS announced that it would be convening an independent commission to conduct comprehensive assessments of nursing home responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. This Commission on Safety and Quality in Nursing Homes (Commission) was intended to identify opportunities for improvement to inform immediate and future actions. On September 16, 2020, the Commission issued its final report and recommendations to CMS. Based upon these recommendations, CMS may implement additional measures to combat COVID-19 in nursing facilities. Provider Relief Fund Reporting Requirement On July 20, 2020, HHS informed Provider Relief Fund (PRF) of future reporting requirements. The Secretary of HHS provided directions on reporting obligations in program instructions directed to all recipients. The reporting system became available to recipients for reporting on October 1, 2020. All recipients must report within 45 days of the end of calendar year 2020 on their expenditures through the period ending December 31, 2020. Recipients who have expended funds in full prior to December 31, 2020 must submit a single final report between October 1, 2020 and February 15, 2021. Recipients with funds unexpended after December 31, 2020, must submit a second and final report no later than July 31, 2021. Provider Relief Fund Single Audit Requirement HHS indicates that PRF payments will be subject to the Office of Management and Budget Single Audit process, which requires an organization-wide audit of an entity that expends $750,000 or more of federal assistance. The objective of the Single Audit is to provide assurance that federal funds are used appropriately. 52 Table of Contents Final Rule - Medicare Annual Market Basket for Fiscal Year 2021 On July 31, 2020, CMS issued a final rule providing a net market basket increase for skilled nursing facilities of 2.2 percent beginning October 1, 2020. This market basket update reflects a full market basket increase of 2.2 percentage points, no forecast error correction and no multifactor productivity adjustment. CMS estimates that the net market basket update would increase Medicare skilled nursing facility payments by approximately $750 million in fiscal year 2021. Proposed Rule Physician Fee Schedule On August 3, 2020, CMS issued a proposed rule to revise payment policies under the Medicare physician fee schedule and makes other policy changes related to Medicare Part B payment on or after January 1, 2021. The revised payment policies, as proposed, would reduce our reimbursement rate for Medicare Part B therapy services and physician services revenues by an estimated $30 million to $40 million on an annualized basis. We are evaluating options to mitigate the impact of the rate reductions should the rule be finalized as proposed. Medicaid Fiscal Accountability Regulation (MFAR) In November 2019, CMS issued a proposed rule, the Medicaid Fiscal Accountability Regulation (MFAR), regarding the use of Medicaid supplemental payment programs and financing arrangements. In September 2020, CMS announced that it was withdrawing MFAR from its regulatory agenda. Key Performance and Valuation Measures In order to assess our financial performance between periods, we evaluate certain key performance and valuation measures for each of our operating segments separately for the periods presented. Results and statistics may not be comparable period-over-period due to the impact of acquisitions and dispositions, or the impact of new and lost therapy contracts. The following is a glossary of terms for some of our key performance and valuation measures and Non-GAAP measures: Actual Patient Days is defined as the number of residents occupying a bed (or units in the case of an assisted/senior living center) for one qualifying day in that period. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA adjusted for newly acquired or constructed businesses with start-up losses and other adjustments to provide a supplemental performance measure. See Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with, Non-GAAP measures. Adjusted EBITDAR is defined as EBITDAR adjusted for newly acquired or constructed businesses with start-up losses and other adjustments to provide a supplemental valuation measure. See Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with, Non-GAAP measures. Available Patient Days is defined as the number of available beds (or units in the case of an assisted/senior living center) multiplied by the number of days in that period. Average Daily Census or ADC is the number of residents occupying a bed (or units in the case of an assisted/senior living center) over a period of time, divided by the number of calendar days in that period. EBITDA is defined as EBITDAR less lease expense. See Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with Non-GAAP measures. EBITDAR is defined as net income or loss attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. before net income or loss of non-controlling interests, net income or loss from discontinued operations, depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense and lease expense. See Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure for an explanation of the adjustments and a description of our uses of, and the limitations associated with Non-GAAP measures. 53 Table of Contents Insurance refers collectively to commercial insurance and managed care payor sources, including Medicare Advantage beneficiaries, but does not include managed care payors serving Medicaid residents, which are included in the Medicaid category. Occupancy Percentage is measured as the percentage of Actual Patient Days relative to the Available Patient Days. Skilled Mix refers collectively to Medicare and Insurance payor sources. Therapist Efficiency is computed by dividing billable labor minutes related to patient care and customer value added services by total labor minutes for the period. Key performance and valuation measures for our businesses are set forth below, followed by a comparison and analysis of our financial results: Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Financial Results (in thousands) Financial Performance Measures: Net revenues (GAAP) $ 938,653 $ 1,123,705 $ 2,987,162 $ 3,430,397 Net (loss) income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. (GAAP) (62,793) 46,097 (51,290) 26,015 EBITDA (Non-GAAP) (37,463) 130,360 98,617 267,138 Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP) 62,178 34,683 164,420 150,552 Valuation Measure: Adjusted EBITDAR (Non-GAAP) $ 148,425 $ 445,082 54 Table of Contents INPATIENT SEGMENT: Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Occupancy Statistics - Inpatient Available licensed beds in service at end of period 38,073 43,769 38,073 43,769 Available operating beds in service at end of period 36,616 41,912 36,616 41,912 Available patient days based on licensed beds 3,502,716 4,026,748 10,432,861 11,939,391 Available patient days based on operating beds 3,369,354 3,856,927 10,018,532 11,437,918 Actual patient days 2,540,395 3,367,241 8,050,490 10,011,691 Occupancy percentage - licensed beds 72.5 % 83.6 % 77.2 % 83.9 % Occupancy percentage - operating beds 75.4 % 87.3 % 80.4 % 87.5 % Skilled mix 16.9 % 17.6 % 17.1 % 18.4 % Average daily census 27,613 36,600 29,381 36,673 Revenue per patient day (skilled nursing facilities) Medicare Part A $ 573 $ 523 $ 571 $ 525 Insurance 495 465 493 460 Private and other 365 368 368 367 Medicaid 261 233 258 232 Medicaid (net of provider taxes) 237 213 235 213 Weighted average (net of provider taxes) $ 303 $ 277 $ 301 $ 279 Patient days by payor (skilled nursing facilities) Medicare 240,485 319,656 781,252 999,535 Insurance 162,034 239,060 506,186 735,736 Total skilled mix days 402,519 558,716 1,287,438 1,735,271 Private and other 140,445 188,157 462,503 545,584 Medicaid 1,835,846 2,425,249 5,793,991 7,150,761 Total Days 2,378,810 3,172,122 7,543,932 9,431,616 Patient days as a percentage of total patient days (skilled nursing facilities) Medicare 10.1 % 10.1 % 10.4 % 10.6 % Insurance 6.8 % 7.5 % 6.7 % 7.8 % Skilled mix 16.9 % 17.6 % 17.1 % 18.4 % Private and other 5.9 % 5.9 % 6.1 % 5.8 % Medicaid 77.2 % 76.5 % 76.8 % 75.8 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Facilities at end of period Skilled nursing facilities Leased 241 280 241 280 Owned 14 30 14 30 Joint Venture 70 38 70 38 Managed 12 12 12 12 Total skilled nursing facilities 337 360 337 360 Total licensed beds 40,535 43,712 40,535 43,712 Assisted/Senior living facilities: Leased 19 21 19 21 Owned 1 1 1 1 Joint Venture 2 1 2 1 Managed 1 1 1 1 Total assisted/senior living facilities 23 24 23 24 Total licensed beds 1,829 1,941 1,829 1,941 Total facilities 360 384 360 384 Total Jointly Owned and Managed (Unconsolidated) 36 13 36 13 REHABILITATION THERAPY SEGMENT*: Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Revenue mix %: Company-operated 33.1 % 35.3 % 33.9 % 35.9 % Non-affiliated and affiliated third party 66.9 % 64.7 % 66.1 % 64.1 % Sites of service (at end of period) 1,064 1,185 1,064 1,185 Revenue per site $ 145,360 $ 149,357 $ 440,170 $ 459,411 Therapist efficiency % 65.8 % 67.8 % 67.3 % 68.7 % * Excludes respiratory therapy services. 55 Table of Contents Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure The following discussion includes references to Adjusted EBITDAR, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures (collectively, Non-GAAP Financial Measures). A Non-GAAP Financial Measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position and cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of operations, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the registrant; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable financial measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. We have provided reconciliations of the Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. We believe the presentation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because these financial measures are useful for trending, analyzing and benchmarking the performance and value of our business. By excluding certain expenses and other items that may not be indicative of our core business operating results, these Non-GAAP Financial Measures: allow investors to evaluate our performance from managements perspective, resulting in greater transparency with respect to supplemental information used by us in our financial and operational decision making; facilitate comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which management monitors financial performance; facilitate comparisons with the performance of others in the post-acute industry; provide better transparency as to the measures used by management and others who follow our industry to estimate the value of our company; and allow investors to view our financial performance and condition in the same manner as our significant landlords and lenders require us to report financial information to them in connection with determining our compliance with financial covenants. We use two Non-GAAP Financial Measures primarily (EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA) as performance measures and believe that the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to these two Non-GAAP Financial Measures is net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. We use one Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted EBITDAR) as a valuation measure and believe that the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to this Non-GAAP Financial Measures is net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. We use Non-GAAP Financial Measures to assess the value of our business and the performance of our operating businesses, as well as the employees responsible for operating such businesses. Non-GAAP Financial Measures are useful in this regard because they do not include such costs as interest expense, income taxes and depreciation and amortization expense which may vary from business unit to business unit depending upon such factors as the method used to finance the original purchase of the business unit or the tax law in the state in which a business unit operates. By excluding such factors when measuring financial performance, many of which are outside of the control of the employees responsible for operating our business units, we are better able to evaluate value and the operating performance of the business unit and the employees responsible for business unit performance. Consequently, we use these Non-GAAP Financial Measures to determine the extent to which our employees have met performance goals, and therefore the extent to which they may or may not be eligible for incentive compensation awards. We also use Non-GAAP Financial Measures in our annual budget process. We believe these Non-GAAP Financial Measures facilitate internal comparisons to historical operating performance of prior periods and external comparisons to competitors historical operating performance. The presentation of these Non-GAAP Financial Measures is consistent with our past practice and we believe these measures further enable investors and analysts to compare current Non-GAAP measures with Non-GAAP measures presented in prior periods. Although we use Non-GAAP Financial Measures as financial measures to assess value and the performance of our business, the use of these Non-GAAP Financial Measures is limited because they do not consider certain material costs necessary to operate the business. These costs include our lease expense (only in the case of Adjusted EBITDAR), the cost to service debt, the depreciation and amortization associated with our long-lived assets, losses on early extinguishment of debt, transaction costs, long-lived asset 56 Table of Contents impairment charges, federal and state income tax expenses, the operating results of our divested businesses and the income or loss attributable to noncontrolling interests. Because Non-GAAP Financial Measures do not consider these important elements of our cost structure, a user of our financial information who relies on Non-GAAP Financial Measures as the only measures of our performance could draw an incomplete or misleading conclusion regarding our financial performance. Consequently, a user of our financial information should consider net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. as an important measure of our financial performance because it provides the most complete measure of our performance. Other companies may define Non-GAAP Financial Measures differently and, as a result, our Non-GAAP Financial Measures may not be directly comparable to those of other companies. Non-GAAP Financial Measures do not represent net income (loss), as defined by GAAP. Non-GAAP Financial Measures should be considered in addition to, not a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP Financial Measures. We use the following Non-GAAP Financial Measures that we believe are useful to investors as key valuation and operating performance measures: EBITDA We believe EBITDA is useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because it helps investors evaluate and compare the results of our operations from period to period by removing the impact of our capital structure (interest expense) and our asset base (depreciation and amortization expense) from our operating results. In addition, financial covenants in our debt agreements use EBITDA as a measure of compliance. Adjustments to EBITDA We adjust EBITDA when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance, in the case of Adjusted EBITDA. We believe that the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA, when combined with GAAP net loss attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc., and EBITDA, is beneficial to an investors complete understanding of our operating performance. In addition, such adjustments are substantially similar to the adjustments to EBITDA provided for in the financial covenant calculations contained in our lease and debt agreements. We adjust EBITDA for the following items: Loss (gain) on early extinguishment of debt. We recognize gains or losses on the early extinguishment of debt when we refinance our debt prior to its original term, requiring us to write-off any unamortized deferred financing fees. We exclude the effect of gains or losses recorded on the early extinguishment of debt because we believe these gains and losses do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. Other income. We primarily use this income statement caption to capture gains and losses on the sale or disposition of assets. We exclude the effect of such gains and losses because we believe they do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. Transaction costs. In connection with our restructuring, acquisition and disposition transactions, we incur costs consisting of investment banking, legal, transaction-based compensation and other professional service costs. We exclude restructuring, acquisition and disposition related transaction costs expensed during the period because we believe these costs do not reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. Long-lived asset impairments. We exclude non-cash long-lived asset impairment charges because we believe including them does not reflect the ongoing performance of our operating businesses. Additionally, such impairment charges represent accelerated depreciation expense, and depreciation expense is also excluded from EBITDA. Severance and restructuring. We exclude severance costs from planned reduction in force initiatives associated with restructuring activities intended to adjust our cost structure in response to changes in the business environment. We believe these costs do not reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. We do not exclude severance costs that are not associated with such restructuring activities. 57 Table of Contents (Income) loss of newly acquired, constructed or divested businesses. Many of the businesses we acquire have a history of operating losses and continue to generate operating losses in the months that follow our acquisition. Newly constructed or developed businesses also generate losses while in their start-up phase. We view these losses as both temporary and an expected component of our long-term investment in the new venture. We adjust these losses when computing Adjusted EBITDA in order to better analyze the performance of our mature ongoing business. The activities of such businesses are adjusted when computing Adjusted EBITDA until such time as a new business generates positive Adjusted EBITDA. The divestiture of underperforming or non-strategic facilities is also an element of our business strategy. We eliminate the results of divested facilities beginning in the quarter in which they become divested. We view the income or losses associated with the wind-down of such divested facilities as not indicative of the performance of our ongoing operating business. Stock-based compensation. We exclude stock-based compensation expense because it does not result in an outlay of cash and such non-cash expenses do not reflect the underlying performance of our operating businesses. Estimated impact of COVID-19. We excluded the net impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our revenues and expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 due to the extraordinary nature of the virus and its impact across the globe. We view the incremental expenses, lost revenue and government relief grants as not indicative of the underlying potential long-term performance of our operating businesses. Our estimate of the pandemics impact on earnings for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 includes the following components: (1) incremental funding received to address escalating expenses and lost revenue; (2) incremental expenses incurred as a result of the pandemic; and (3) the net impact of lost revenue, after considering a resulting reduction in operating expenses. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, we excluded funding recognized under the CARES Act and additional funding provided by certain states totaling approximately $64.0 million and $298.0 million, respectively. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, we excluded incremental expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic of approximately $52 million and $205 million, respectively. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 we excluded the estimated net impact of lost revenue offset by any resulting reduction in operating expenses, of approximately $71.0 million and $145.0 million, respectively. Other non-recurring income . In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we excluded an insurance recovery and costs related to the hurricane events of fiscal year 2017. We do not believe the excluded costs reflect the performance of our ongoing operating business. Adjusted EBITDAR We use Adjusted EBITDAR as one measure in determining the value of our business and the value of prospective acquisitions or divestitures. Adjusted EBITDAR is also a commonly used measure to estimate the enterprise value of businesses in the healthcare and other industries. In addition, financial covenants in our lease agreements use Adjusted EBITDAR as a measure of compliance. The adjustments made and previously described in the computation of Adjusted EBITDA are also made when computing Adjusted EBITDAR. Supplemental Information We provide supplemental information about certain capital costs we believe are beneficial to an investors understanding of our capital structure and cash flows. This supplemental information includes (1) cash interest payments on our recourse and HUD guaranteed indebtedness (2) cash rent payments made to partially owned real estate joint ventures that is eliminated in consolidation, net of any distributions returned to us, and (3) total cash lease payments made pursuant to operating leases and finance leases. This supplemental information is used by us to evaluate our leverage, fixed charge coverage and cash flow. This supplemental information is consistent with information used by our major creditors in evaluating compliance with financial covenants contained in our material lease and loan agreements. 58 Table of Contents See the reconciliation of net (loss) income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. to Non-GAAP financial information included herein (in thousands): Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Net (loss) income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. $ (62,793) $ 46,097 $ (51,290) $ 26,015 Adjustments to compute EBITDA: Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interests (33,137) 12,801 (35,275) (1,182) Depreciation and amortization expense 24,373 34,932 84,177 101,395 Interest expense 33,918 37,099 102,065 141,590 Income tax expense (benefit) 176 (569) (1,060) (680) EBITDA $ (37,463) $ 130,360 98,617 267,138 Adjustments to compute Adjusted EBITDA: Loss on early extinguishment of debt 1,101 2,460 6,561 2,436 Other income (53,507) (131,811) (182,439) (172,141) Transaction costs 15,561 12,941 26,696 23,025 Long-lived asset impairments 72,400 16,037 159,200 16,937 Severance and restructuring 354 2,751 1,055 4,870 Loss (income) of newly acquired, constructed, or divested businesses 2,769 67 (2,481) 2,811 Stock-based compensation 1,599 1,878 5,324 5,713 Estimated impact of COVID-19 59,364 51,887 Other non-recurring income (237) Adjusted EBITDA $ 62,178 $ 34,683 $ 164,420 $ 150,552 Lease expense 86,247 100,018 280,662 288,665 Adjusted EBITDAR $ 148,425 $ 445,082 Supplemental information: Cash interest payments on recourse and HUD debt $ 14,257 $ 20,550 $ 48,917 $ 63,490 Cash payments made to partially owned real estate joint ventures, net of distributions received 14,186 5,610 39,565 9,810 Total cash lease payments made pursuant to operating leases and finance leases $ 85,575 $ 100,500 $ 269,357 $ 314,516 Results of Operations Same-store Presentation We define our same-store inpatient operations as those skilled nursing and assisted/senior living centers which have been operated by us, in a steady-state, for each comparable period in this Results of Operations discussion. We exclude from that definition those skilled nursing and assisted/senior living facilities recently acquired that were not operated by us for the entire period, as well as those that were divested prior to or during the most recent period presented. In cases where we are developing new skilled nursing or assisted/senior living centers, those operations are excluded from our same-store inpatient operations until the revenue driven by operating patient census is stable in the comparable periods. Since the nature of our rehabilitation therapy services operations experiences high volume of both new and terminated contracts in an annual cycle, and the scale and significance of those contracts can be very different to both the revenue and operating expenses of that business, a same-store presentation based solely on the contract or gym count does not provide an accurate depiction of the business. Accordingly, we do not reference same-store figures in this MD&A with regard to that business. The volume of services delivered in our other services businesses can also be affected by strategic transactional activity. To the extent there are businesses to be excluded to achieve same-store comparability those will be noted in the context of the Results of Operations discussion. Impact of COVID-19 on Results of Operations The COVID-19 pandemic will impact the comparability of our 2020 financial results with those of other periods. That reduced comparability will be highlighted in the discussion of our results of operations, separate from our same-store presentation. For more information about the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our results of operations and financial position, see COVID-19 described more fully in this MD&A. 59 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 A summary of our unaudited results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019 follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three months ended September 30, 2020 2019 Increase / (Decrease) Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Revenues: Inpatient services: Skilled nursing facilities $ 766,782 81.8 % $ 941,722 83.8 % $ (174,940) (18.6) % Assisted/Senior living facilities 19,128 2.0 % 23,057 2.1 % (3,929) (17.0) % Administration of third party facilities 1,835 0.2 % 1,980 0.2 % (145) (7.3) % Elimination of administrative services (672) (0.1) % (748) (0) % 76 10.2 % Inpatient services, net 787,073 83.9 % 966,011 86.0 % (178,938) (18.5) % Rehabilitation therapy services: Total therapy services 156,706 16.7 % 183,898 16.4 % (27,192) (14.8) % Elimination of intersegment rehabilitation therapy services (55,189) (5.9) % (67,598) (6.0) % 12,409 18.4 % Third party rehabilitation therapy services, net 101,517 10.8 % 116,300 10.4 % (14,783) (12.7) % Other services: Total other services 73,276 7.8 % 55,532 4.9 % 17,744 32.0 % Elimination of intersegment other services (23,213) (2.5) % (14,138) (1.3) % (9,075) (64.2) % Third party other services, net 50,063 5.3 % 41,394 3.6 % 8,669 20.9 % Net revenues $ 938,653 100.0 % $ 1,123,705 100.0 % $ (185,052) (16.5) % Three months ended September 30, 2020 2019 Increase / (Decrease) Margin Margin Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage EBITDA: Inpatient services $ (26,410) (3.4) % $ 151,923 15.7 % $ (178,333) (117.4) % Rehabilitation therapy services 30,731 19.6 % 19,006 10.3 % 11,725 61.7 % Other services 15,931 21.7 % 8,518 15.3 % 7,413 87.0 % Corporate and eliminations (57,715) % (49,087) % (8,628) (17.6) % EBITDA $ (37,463) (4.0) % $ 130,360 11.6 % $ (167,823) (128.7) % 60 Table of Contents A summary of our unaudited condensed consolidating statement of operations follows (in thousands): Three months ended September 30, 2020 Rehabilitation Inpatient Therapy Other Services Services Services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated Net revenues $ 787,745 $ 156,706 $ 73,276 $ $ (79,074) $ 938,653 Salaries, wages and benefits 375,352 122,134 37,523 535,009 Other operating expenses 362,212 7,178 19,447 (79,173) 309,664 General and administrative costs 45,172 45,172 Lease expense 85,245 253 450 299 86,247 Depreciation and amortization expense 20,301 1,736 206 2,245 (115) 24,373 Interest expense 15,674 10 19,414 (1,180) 33,918 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 1,101 1,101 Investment income (2,137) 1,180 (957) Other (income) loss (54,052) 620 (75) (53,507) Transaction costs 15,561 15,561 Long-lived asset impairments 72,400 72,400 Federal stimulus - COVID-19 other income (27,002) (4,210) (31,212) Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates (2,310) (1,052) (3,362) (Loss) income before income tax benefit (62,385) 28,995 15,715 (79,345) 1,266 (95,754) Income tax expense 176 176 Net (loss) income $ (62,385) $ 28,995 $ 15,715 $ (79,521) $ 1,266 $ (95,930) Three months ended September 30, 2019 Rehabilitation Inpatient Therapy Other Services Services Services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated Net revenues $ 966,759 $ 183,898 $ 55,515 $ 17 $ (82,484) $ 1,123,705 Salaries, wages and benefits 437,508 152,793 30,192 620,493 Other operating expenses 394,115 11,779 16,421 (82,874) 339,441 General and administrative costs 35,930 35,930 Lease expense 98,987 320 384 327 100,018 Depreciation and amortization expense 29,263 2,934 176 2,559 34,932 Interest expense 12,363 14 9 24,713 37,099 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 2,460 2,460 Investment income (2,071) (2,071) Other income (131,811) (131,811) Transaction costs 12,941 12,941 Long-lived asset impairments 16,037 16,037 Equity in net loss (income) of unconsolidated affiliates 2,932 (3,025) (93) Income (loss) before income tax benefit 110,297 16,058 8,333 (79,774) 3,415 58,329 Income tax benefit (569) (569) Net income (loss) $ 110,297 $ 16,058 $ 8,333 $ (79,205) $ 3,415 $ 58,898 Net Revenues Net revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2020 decreased by $185.1 million, or 16.5%, as compared with the three months ended September 30, 2019. Inpatient Services Revenue decreased $178.9 million, or 18.5%, in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Divestiture activity and COVID-19 are the primary drivers of this variance. On a same-store basis, inpatient services revenue decreased $42.3 million, or 5.1%, excluding 65 divested underperforming facilities and the acquisition or development of one additional facilities. The same-store revenue decrease is net of $16.8 million related to a new provider tax program in the state of New Mexico, which was not in place for the corresponding period in 2019 and an additional increase of $10.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 is attributed to the transition from the resource utilization group based reimbursement to the Patient-Driven Payment Model (PDPM) reimbursement methodology in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. Giving effect to these factors, we estimate the remaining same-store inpatient revenue decrease of $69.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared with the same period in 2019 is due to the impact of COVID-19, partially offset by increasing payor rates, primarily in our Medicaid population, reflecting a trend that was observed before COVID-19 impacted our operations. While census was adversely impacted by admission holds and declining in-house census as the pandemic progressed, average payor rates increased as acuity of the in-house census increased with treatment of the population testing positive for the virus. COVID-19, 61 Table of Contents has, and will likely continue to disrupt this favorable overall census trend and may have an unpredictable impact on the skilled mix of our inpatient facilities as a result of the temporary change to patient coverage criteria. For an expanded discussion regarding the factors influencing our operating census and challenges to our ability to grow inpatient service revenues, see Item 1, Business Industry Trends in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, Key Performance and Valuation Measures in this MD&A for quantification of the census trends and revenue per patient day as well as COVID-19 in this MD&A. Rehabilitation Therapy Services Revenue decreased $14.8 million, or 12.7% comparing the three months ended September 30, 2020 with the same period in 2019. Of that decrease, $14.9 million is due to lost contract business, offset by $7.3 million attributed to new contracts. COVID-19 began to impact the skilled nursing customers of our rehabilitation services at an accelerating rate by March 2020 and continuing through September 30, 2020, resulting in a decrease of revenue of $2.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. The remaining decrease of $5.0 million is principally due to reduced volume of services provided to existing customers and amended customer pricing terms in connection with the implementation of PDPM. Other Services Revenue increased $8.7 million, or 20.9% in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Our other services revenue is comprised mainly of our physician services and staffing services businesses, in addition to our Accountable Care Organization (ACO). In the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, the ACO recognized $13.5 million and $8.7 million, respectively under the Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP). The MSSP recognition in the three months ended September 30, 2020 included $10.3 million related to the 2019 MSSP program and an estimated 2020 program achievement to date of $3.2 million. Revenue in our physician services business decreased $2.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019, all of which is attributed to reduced census volumes from the impact of COVID-19 on the inpatient business. Revenue in our staffing services business increased $3.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. The staffing services business has shifted its focus to developing its services to our affiliated nursing facilities and therapy gyms. While the staffing business gross revenue has increased over 44% in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019, its revenue from external customers has only increased 12.5% over that same period. Further penetration of the internal staffing needs is a strategic goal for our staffing business and will enable our organization to meet the evolving demands of post-acute care in light of the COVID-19 impact on our various lines of business. The remaining increase in revenue of $3.1 million pertains to fee income for administrative services support to third party post-acute care providers as well as sub-rental income for skilled nursing and behavioral health facilities sub-leased to these third party providers. There was no corresponding service or sub-rental revenue in three months ended September 30, 2019. EBITDA EBITDA for the three months ended September 30, 2020 decreased by $167.8 million, or 128.7%, as compared with the three months ended September 30, 2019. Excluding the impact of loss on early extinguishment of debt, other (income) loss, transaction costs, long-lived asset impairments and Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA decreased $63.1 million, or 210.4% when compared with the same period in 2019. The contributing factors for this net decrease are described in our discussion below of segment results and corporate overhead. Inpatient Services EBITDA decreased by $178.3 million, or 117.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Excluding the impact of other (income) loss, long-lived asset impairments and Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA as adjusted decreased $71.2 million when compared with the same period in 2019. Divestiture activity and COVID-19 are the primary drivers of this variance. On a same-store basis, the inpatient EBITDA as adjusted decreased $64.1 million. Same-store staffing costs, net of nursing agency and other purchased services and adjusted for the impact of COVID-19, increased $11.9 million. Wages and purchased services include supplemental premium pay rates and bonuses to insure we could attract adequate staff to address our clinical needs during the pandemic. Nursing wage inflation increased 11.0% while non-nursing wage inflation increased 6.8% in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Same-store lease expense decreased $10.7 million, primarily due to lease amendments in 2019 resulting in certain financing leases being reclassified as operating leases. Our self-insurance programs, including general and professional liability, workers compensation and health insurance benefits, resulted in a decrease of $17.2 million EBITDA as adjusted in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. The provision for workers compensation specific to COVID-19 exposure risk accounts for most of this self-insurance decrease to EBITDA, with an incremental $12.4 million expensed 62 Table of Contents in the 2020 period. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic our self-insurance programs were performing as anticipated and within normal claims reporting patterns of our same-store operations recently. The provisions for general and professional liability recorded in both the three months ended September 30, 2020 and the comparable period in 2019 reflect continued favorable claims development and accelerated claims settlement initiated in 2018. We have not changed our reserving methodology or assumptions for any COVID-19 specific professional liability exposures. Our self-insured health benefit plans have seen reduced expenses principally due to other medical care settings limiting non-emergency services during the COVID-19 pandemic, however, we anticipate those deferred procedures will impact expense over the remainder of fiscal year 2020. The introduction of the new provider tax program in New Mexico resulted in an increase of EBITDA of $12.5 million compared to the same period in 2019 before the program was enacted. The remaining $58.2 million decrease in EBITDA, as adjusted, of the segment is principally due to the negative affects COVID-19 has had on our business, partially offset with reduced therapy services cost due to the implementation of PDPM. See Significant Transactions and Events COVID-19. Rehabilitation Therapy Services EBITDA increased by $11.7 million, or 61.7%, for the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Excluding the impact of Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA as adjusted increased $8.1 million when compared with the same period in 2019. Lost therapy contracts exceeded new contracts by $1.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. COVID-19 resulted in a decrease of EBITDA of $0.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020. The remaining increase of $9.8 million is principally attributed to overhead cost reductions and improved accounts receivable collections in the period. Therapist efficiency was negatively impacted by the impact of COVID-19, decreasing to 65.8% in the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared with 67.8% in the comparable period in the prior year. This decline in therapist efficiency is expected to be temporary as we have adjusted staffing and service models to address the clinical needs of our skilled nursing customers impacted by COVID-19. Other Services EBITDA increased $7.4 million, or 87.0%, for the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. The EBITDA of our ACO increased $6.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. In the 2020 period, we recognized $10.3 million for the 2019 program performance based on actual results achieved and an estimated $3.2 million for the 2020 program. The EBITDA of our staffing services business decreased $0.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019, principally due to reduced pricing in its services with affiliated customers, partially offset with increased volumes with those affiliated customers. The EBITDA of our physician services business decreased $1.6 million. The physician services business has been negatively impacted by COVID-19 reducing patient encounters due to reduced skilled nursing census across the industry and increased costs to support practitioners. The remaining increase in EBITDA of $3.2 million principally relates to fee income for administrative services support to third party post-acute care providers as well as sub-rental income for skilled nursing and behavioral health facilities sub-leased to these third party providers. There was no corresponding service or sub-rental income in three months ended September 30, 2019. Corporate and Eliminations EBITDA decreased $8.6 million, or 17.6%, for the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. EBITDA of our corporate function includes loss on early extinguishment of debt and losses associated with transactions that are outside of the scope of our reportable segments. These and other transactions, which are separately captioned in our consolidated statements of operations and described more fully above in our Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure, contributed $1.3 million of the net decrease in EBITDA. Corporate overhead costs increased $9.2 million, or 25.7%, in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. This increase is principally due to investments in information technology and related upgrades and incremental performance based incentive compensation. Other (income) loss Consistent with our strategy to divest assets in non-strategic markets, we incur losses and generate gains resulting from the sale, transition or closure of underperforming operations and assets. Other (income) loss for the three months ended September 30, 2020 principally represents gains on sales of real estate and leasehold rights in the period. See also Note 12 Other Income . Transaction costs In the normal course of business, we evaluate strategic acquisition, disposition and business development opportunities. The costs to pursue these opportunities, when incurred, vary from period to period depending on the nature of the transaction pursued and if those transactions are ever completed. Transaction costs incurred for the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 were $15.6 million and $12.9 million, respectively. Long-lived asset impairments In the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, we recognized impairments of property and equipment and right-of-use (ROU) assets of $72.4 million and $16.0 million, respectively. For more information about 63 Table of Contents the conditions of the business which contributed to these impairments, see Industry Trends and Recent Regulatory Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue and Financial Condition and Liquidity Considerations in this MD&A, as well as Note 13 Asset Impairment Charges - Long-Lived Assets with a Definite Useful Life. Federal stimulus COVID 19 other income During the three months ended September 30, 2020, we recognized $31.2 million of relief grants from CARES Act funds administered by the HHS. The grants are primarily related to the skilled nursing care provided through our Inpatient Services segment. Grants received are subject to the terms and conditions of the program, including that such funds may only be used to prevent, prepare for, and respond to COVID-19 and will reimburse only for health care related expenses, including cost of infection control, or lost revenues that are attributable to COVID-19. HHS continues to evaluate and provide allocations of, and issue regulation and guidance regarding, grants made under the CARES Act. Other Expense The following discussion applies to the consolidated expense categories between EBITDA and net (loss) income of all reportable segments, corporate and eliminations in our consolidating statement of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Depreciation and amortization Each of our reportable segments and corporate overhead have depreciating property, plant and equipment, including amortization of finance lease ROU assets. Our rehabilitation therapy services and other services have identifiable intangible assets which amortize over the estimated life of those identifiable assets. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $10.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. On a same-store basis, depreciation and amortization decreased $11.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. This decrease is principally due to acceleration of depreciation of assets sold into real estate joint ventures in the prior year quarter and reductions in the amortization of the right to use assets of our remaining leases in our inpatient services segment. Interest expense Interest expense includes the cash interest and non-cash adjustments required to account for our debt instruments, as well as the expense associated with leases accounted for as finance leases. Interest expense decreased $3.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period 2019. On a same-store basis, interest expense is down $0.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. An increase of $4.7 million of interest expense is attributed to consolidating debt and the associated interest expense of two real-estate partnerships in 2019, which were determined to be variable interest entities (VIEs) of which we are the primary beneficiary. See Note 1 General Information Basis of Presentation and Note 9 Long-Term Debt . Cash interest decreased $4.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019 as a result of a reduction in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, primarily due to the timing of the Medicare Advance payments received and other phases of the CARES Act relief funding. Borrowing levels are expected to increase over the period the Medicare Advance is expected to be recouped from April 2021 through February 2022. The remaining decrease in same-store interest expense of $0.8 million is principally due to lease amendments entered in 2019 and early 2020 that resulted in modifications to the accounting for certain leases, converting them from financing leases with interest expense to operating leases presented as lease expense. Income tax expense (benefit) For the three months ended September 30, 2020, we recorded income tax expense of $0.2 million from continuing operations representing an effective tax rate of (0.2)% compared to an income tax benefit of $0.6 million from continuing operations, representing an effective tax rate of (1.0)% for the same period in 2019. There is a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, excluding our deferred tax asset on our Bermuda captive insurance companys discounted unpaid loss reserve. Previously, in assessing the requirement for, and amount of, a valuation allowance in accordance with the standard, we determined it was more likely than not we would not realize our deferred tax assets and established a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets. As of September 30, 2020, we have determined that the valuation allowance is still necessary. Net (Loss) Income Attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. The following discussion applies to categories between net (loss) income and net (loss) income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. in our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. 64 Table of Contents Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interests On February 2, 2015, FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC (FC-GEN) combined with Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. and the combined results were consolidated with approximately 42.0% direct noncontrolling economic interest shown as noncontrolling interest in the financial statements of the combined entity. The direct noncontrolling economic interest is in the form of Class C common stock of FC-GEN that are exchangeable on a 1-to-1 basis to our public shares. The direct noncontrolling economic interest will continue to decrease as Class C common stock of FC-GEN are exchanged for public shares. Since the combination, there have been conversions of 9.0 million Class C common stock, leaving a remaining direct noncontrolling economic interest of approximately 32.9%. For the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, (loss) income of $(31.5) million and $19.9 million, respectively, has been attributed to the Class C common stock. In addition to the noncontrolling interests attributable to the Class C common stock holders, our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all entities controlled by us through our ownership of a majority voting interest and the accounts of any VIEs where we are subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the VIE's activities, or entitled to receive a majority of the entity's residual returns, or both. We adjust net income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. to exclude the net income attributable to the third party ownership interests of the VIEs. For the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, loss of $(1.6) million and $(7.1) million, respectively, has been attributed to these unaffiliated third parties. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 A summary of our unaudited results of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019 follows (in thousands, except percentages): Nine months ended September 30, 2020 2019 Increase / (Decrease) Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Revenues: Inpatient services: Skilled nursing facilities $ 2,493,616 83.5 % $ 2,888,659 84.1 % $ (395,043) (13.7) % Assisted/Senior living facilities 60,991 2.0 % 70,408 2.1 % (9,417) (13.4) % Administration of third party facilities 5,986 0.2 % 6,281 0.2 % (295) (4.7) % Elimination of administrative services (2,242) (0.1) % (2,347) (0.1) % 105 4.5 % Inpatient services, net 2,558,351 85.6 % 2,963,001 86.3 % (404,650) (13.7) % Rehabilitation therapy services: Total therapy services 475,127 15.9 % 571,875 16.7 % (96,748) (16.9) % Elimination of intersegment rehabilitation therapy services (171,617) (5.7) % (213,800) (6.2) % 42,183 19.7 % Third party rehabilitation therapy services, net 303,510 10.2 % 358,075 10.5 % (54,565) (15.2) % Other services: Total other services 199,058 6.7 % 143,139 4.2 % 55,919 39.1 % Elimination of intersegment other services (73,757) (2.5) % (33,818) (1.0) % (39,939) (118.1) % Third party other services, net 125,301 4.2 % 109,321 3.2 % 15,980 14.6 % Net revenues $ 2,987,162 100.0 % $ 3,430,397 100.0 % $ (443,235) (12.9) % Nine months ended September 30, 2020 2019 Increase / (Decrease) Margin Margin Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage Dollars Percentage EBITDA: Inpatient services $ 142,238 5.6 % $ 313,045 10.6 % $ (170,807) (54.6) % Rehabilitation therapy services 79,860 16.8 % 71,360 12.5 % 8,500 11.9 % Other services 24,998 12.6 % 9,444 6.6 % 15,554 164.7 % Corporate and eliminations (148,479) % (126,711) % (21,768) (17.2) % EBITDA $ 98,617 3.3 % $ 267,138 7.8 % $ (168,521) (63.1) % 65 Table of Contents A summary of our unaudited condensed consolidating statement of operations follows (in thousands): Nine months ended September 30, 2020 Rehabilitation Inpatient Therapy Other Services Services Services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated Net revenues $ 2,560,593 $ 475,127 $ 199,058 $ $ (247,616) $ 2,987,162 Salaries, wages and benefits 1,237,570 378,687 116,229 1,732,486 Other operating expenses 1,132,321 24,440 58,623 (247,965) 967,419 General and administrative costs 124,558 124,558 Lease expense 277,506 878 1,380 898 280,662 Depreciation and amortization expense 71,479 5,099 612 7,140 (153) 84,177 Interest expense 42,069 27 29 63,480 (3,540) 102,065 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 6,561 6,561 Investment income (6,614) 3,540 (3,074) Other (income) loss (183,265) 621 205 (182,439) Transaction costs 26,696 26,696 Long-lived asset impairments 159,200 159,200 Federal stimulus - COVID-19 other income (204,977) (9,359) (2,377) (216,713) Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates (6,419) (392) (6,811) Income (loss) before income tax benefit 28,690 74,734 24,357 (216,300) 894 (87,625) Income tax benefit (1,060) (1,060) Net income (loss) $ 28,690 $ 74,734 $ 24,357 $ (215,240) $ 894 $ (86,565) Nine months ended September 30, 2019 Rehabilitation Inpatient Therapy Other Services Services Services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated Net revenues $ 2,965,348 $ 571,875 $ 142,905 $ 234 $ (249,965) $ 3,430,397 Salaries, wages and benefits 1,336,298 464,740 88,024 1,889,062 Other operating expenses 1,185,684 34,866 44,312 (250,355) 1,014,507 General and administrative costs 107,024 107,024 Lease expense 285,510 985 1,064 1,106 288,665 Depreciation and amortization expense 83,463 9,210 524 8,198 101,395 Interest expense 68,454 41 26 73,069 141,590 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 2,436 2,436 Investment income (6,078) (6,078) Other (income) loss (172,126) (76) 61 (172,141) Transaction costs 23,025 23,025 Long-lived asset impairments 16,937 16,937 Equity in net loss (income) of unconsolidated affiliates 4,318 (4,496) (178) Income (loss) before income tax benefit 161,128 62,109 8,894 (212,864) 4,886 24,153 Income tax benefit (680) (680) Net income (loss) $ 161,128 $ 62,109 $ 8,894 $ (212,184) $ 4,886 $ 24,833 Net Revenues Net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 decreased by $443.2 million, or 12.9%, as compared with the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Inpatient Services Revenue decreased $404.7 million, or 13.7%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Divestiture activity and COVID-19 are the primary drivers of this variance. On a same-store basis, inpatient services revenue decreased $29.0 million, or 1.1%, excluding 88 divested underperforming facilities and the acquisition or development of two additional facilities. The same-store revenue increase is net of $35.6 million related to a new provider tax program in the state of New Mexico, which was not in place for the corresponding period in 2019 and an additional $30.6 million of the increase in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 is attributed to the transition from the resource utilization group based reimbursement to the Patient-Driven Payment Model (PDPM) reimbursement methodology in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. Giving effect to these factors, we estimate the remaining same-store inpatient revenue decrease of $95.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared with the same period in 2019 is due to the impact of COVID-19, partially offset by increasing payor rates, primarily in our Medicaid population, reflecting a trend that was observed before COVID-19 impacted our operations. While census was adversely impacted by admission holds and declining in-house census as the pandemic progressed, average payor rates increased as acuity of the in-house census increased with treatment of the population testing positive for the virus. COVID-19, 66 Table of Contents has, and will likely continue to disrupt this favorable overall census trend and may have an unpredictable impact on the skilled mix of our inpatient facilities as a result of the temporary change to patient coverage criteria. For an expanded discussion regarding the factors influencing our operating census and challenges to our ability to grow inpatient service revenues, see Item 1, Business Industry Trends in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, Key Performance and Valuation Measures in this MD&A for quantification of the census trends and revenue per patient day as well as COVID-19 in this MD&A. Rehabilitation Therapy Services Revenue decreased $54.6 million, or 15.2% comparing the nine months ended September 30, 2020 with the same period in 2019. Of that decrease, $32.6 million is due to lost contract business, offset by $14.0 million attributed to new contracts. COVID-19 began to impact the skilled nursing customers of our rehabilitation services at an accelerating rate by March 2020 and continued through September 30, 2020, resulting in a decrease of revenue of $14.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. The remaining decrease of $21.9 million is principally due to reduced volume of services provided to existing customers and amended customer pricing terms in connection with the implementation of PDPM. Other Services Revenue increased $16.0 million, or 14.6% in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Our other services revenue is comprised mainly of our physician services and staffing services businesses, in addition to our ACO. In the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, the ACO recognized $13.5 million and $8.7 million, respectively under the Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP). The MSSP recognition in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 included $10.3 million related to the 2019 MSSP program and an estimated 2020 program achievement to date of $3.2 million. Revenue in our physician services business decreased $1.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019, all of which is attributed to reduced census volumes from the impact of COVID-19 on the inpatient business. Revenue of our staffing services business increased $5.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. The staffing services business has shifted its focus to developing its services to our affiliated nursing facilities and therapy gyms. While the staffing business gross revenue has increased over 58% in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019, its revenue from external customers has only increased 12.5% over that same period. Further penetration of the internal staffing needs is a strategic goal for our staffing business, and will enable our organization to meet the evolving demands of post-acute care in light of the COVID-19 impact on our various lines of business. The remaining increase in revenue of $6.7 million principally pertains to fee income for administrative services support to third party post-acute care providers as well as sub-rental income for skilled nursing and behavioral health facilities sub-leased to these third party providers. There was no corresponding service or sub-rental revenue in nine months ended September 30, 2019. EBITDA EBITDA for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 decreased by $168.5 million, or 63.1%, as compared with the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Excluding the impact of loss on early extinguishment of debt, other (income) loss, transaction costs and long-lived asset impairments, EBITDA decreased $245.5 million, or 178.7% when compared with the same period in 2019. The contributing factors for this net decrease are described in our discussion below of segment results and corporate overhead. Inpatient Services EBITDA decreased by $170.8 million, or 54.6% for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Excluding the impact of other (income) loss, long-lived asset impairments and Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA as adjusted decreased $244.7 million, or 155.0% when compared with the same period in 2019. Divestiture activity and COVID-19 are the primary drivers of this variance. On a same-store basis, the inpatient EBITDA as adjusted decreased $217.0 million. Same-store staffing costs, net of nursing agency and other purchased services and adjusted for the impact of COVID-19, increased $141.3 million. Wages and purchased services include supplemental premium pay rates and bonuses to insure we could attract adequate staff to address our clinical needs during the pandemic. Nursing wage inflation increased 14.6% while non-nursing wage inflation increased 7.7% in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Same-store lease expense decreased $4.5 million, primarily due to lease amendments in 2019 resulting in certain financing leases being reclassified as operating leases. Our self-insurance programs, including general and professional liability, workers compensation and health insurance benefits, resulted in a decrease of $37.6 million EBITDA as adjusted in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. The provision for workers compensation specific to COVID-19 exposure risk accounts for most of this self-insurance decrease to EBITDA, with an incremental $37.4 million expensed in the 2020 period. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic our self-insurance programs were performing as anticipated and 67 Table of Contents within normal claims reporting patterns of our same-store operations recently. The provisions for general and professional liability recorded in both the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and the comparable period in 2019 reflect continued favorable claims development and accelerated claims settlement initiated in 2018. We have not changed our reserving methodology or assumptions for any COVID-19 specific professional liability exposures. Our self-insured health benefit plans have seen reduced expenses principally due to other medical care settings limiting non-emergency services during the COVID-19 pandemic, however, we anticipate those deferred procedures will impact expense over the remainder of fiscal year 2020. The introduction of the new provider tax program in New Mexico resulted in an increase of EBITDA of $22.9 million compared to the same period in 2019 before the program was enacted. The remaining $65.5 million decrease in EBITDA, as adjusted, of the segment is principally due to the negative affects COVID-19 has had on our business, partially offset with reduced therapy services cost due to the implementation of PDPM. See Significant Transactions and Events COVID-19. Rehabilitation Therapy Services EBITDA increased by $8.5 million, or 11.9%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Excluding the impact of Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA as adjusted decreased $0.2 million when compared with the same period in 2019. Lost therapy contracts exceeded new contracts by $5.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. COVID-19 resulted in a decrease of EBITDA of $4.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The remaining increase of $9.6 million is principally attributed to reduced overhead costs. Therapist efficiency declined to 67.3% in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared with 68.7% in the comparable period in the prior year. This decline in therapist efficiency is expected to be temporary as we have adjusted staffing and service models to address the clinical needs of our skilled nursing customers impacted by COVID-19. Other Services EBITDA increased $15.6 million, or 164.7%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Excluding the impact of Federal Stimulus COVID-19 other income, EBITDA as adjusted increased $13.3 million when compared with the same period in 2019. The EBITDA of our ACO increased $5.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. In the 2020 period, we recognized $10.3 million for the 2019 program performance based on actual results achieved and an estimated $3.2 million for the 2020 program. The EBITDA of our staffing services business increased $2.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019, principally due to growth in its services with affiliated customers, partially offset with pricing reductions to those affiliated customers. The EBITDA of our physician services business decreased $1.9 million. The physician services business has been negatively impacted by COVID-19 reducing patient encounters due to reduced skilled nursing census across the industry and increased costs to support practitioners. The remaining increase in EBITDA of $6.9 million principally relates to fee income for administrative services support to third party post-acute care providers as well as sub-rental income for skilled nursing and behavioral health facilities sub-leased to these third party providers. There was no corresponding service or sub-rental income in three months ended September 30, 2019. Corporate and Eliminations EBITDA decreased $21.8 million, or 17.2%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. EBITDA of our corporate function includes loss on early extinguishment of debt and losses associated with transactions that are outside of the scope of our reportable segments. These and other transactions, which are separately captioned in our consolidated statements of operations and described more fully above in our Reasons for Non-GAAP Financial Disclosure, contributed $7.8 million of the net decrease in EBITDA. Corporate overhead costs, net of fee income, increased $17.5 million, or 16.4%, in the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. This increase is principally due to investments in information technology and related upgrades. The remaining increase in EBITDA of $3.5 million is primarily the result of an increase in investment earnings from our unconsolidated affiliates accounted for on the equity method and other investments. Other (income) loss Consistent with our strategy to divest assets in non-strategic markets, we incur losses and generate gains resulting from the sale, transition or closure of underperforming operations and assets. Other (income) loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 principally represents gains on sales of real estate and leasehold rights in the period. See also Note 12 Other Income . Transaction costs In the normal course of business, we evaluate strategic acquisition, disposition and business development opportunities. The costs to pursue these opportunities, when incurred, vary from period to period depending on the nature of the transaction pursued and if those transactions are ever completed. Transaction costs incurred for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 were $26.7 million and $23.0 million, respectively. 68 Table of Contents Long-lived asset impairments In the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we recognized impairments of property and equipment and right-of-use (ROU) assets of $159.2 million. For more information about the conditions of the business which contributed to these impairments, see Industry Trends and Recent Regulatory Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue and Financial Condition and Liquidity Considerations in this MD&A, as well as Note 13 Asset Impairment Charges - Long-Lived Assets with a Definite Useful Life. Federal stimulus COVID 19 other income During the nine months ended September 30, 2020 we recognized $216.7 million of relief grants from CARES Act funds administered by HHS. The grants are primarily related to the skilled nursing care provided through our Inpatient Services segment. Grants received are subject to the terms and conditions of the program, including that such funds may only be used to prevent, prepare for, and respond to COVID-19 and will reimburse only for health care related expenses, including costs of infection control, or lost revenues that are attributable to COVID-19. HHS continues to evaluate and provide allocations of, and issue regulation and guidance regarding, grants made under the CARES Act. Other Expense The following discussion applies to the consolidated expense categories between EBITDA and net income (loss) of all reportable segments, corporate and eliminations in our consolidating statement of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Depreciation and amortization Each of our reportable segments and corporate overhead have depreciating property, plant and equipment, including amortization of finance lease ROU assets. Our rehabilitation therapy services and other services have identifiable intangible assets which amortize over the estimated life of those identifiable assets. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $17.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. On a same-store basis, depreciation and amortization decreased $21.8 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. In the inpatient services segment, $9.9 million of the decrease is principally due reduction in the amortization of right to use assets in our continuing lease portfolio, with the remaining $11.9 million reduction principally due to prior year acceleration related to multiple lease transactions. Interest expense Interest expense includes the cash interest and non-cash adjustments required to account for our debt instruments, as well as the expense associated with leases accounted for as finance leases. Interest expense decreased $39.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period 2019. On a same-store basis, interest expense is down $27.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. An increase of $16.8 million of interest expense is attributed to consolidating debt and the associated interest expense of two real-estate partnerships in 2019, which were determined to be variable interest entities (VIEs) of which we are the primary beneficiary. See Note 1 General Information Basis of Presentation and Note 9 Long-Term Debt . Cash interest decreased $9.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019 as a result of a reduction in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, primarily due to the timing of the Medicare Advance payments received in addition to other phases of CARES Act relief funding. Borrowing levels are expected to increase over the period the Medicare Advance is required to be recouped in 2021. The remaining decrease in interest expense of $34.7 million is principally due to lease amendments entered in 2019 and early 2020 that resulted in modifications to the accounting for certain leases, converting them from financing leases with interest expense to operating leases presented as lease expense. Income tax benefit For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we recorded income tax benefit of $1.1 million from continuing operations representing an effective tax rate of 1.2% compared to an income tax benefit of $0.7 million from continuing operations, representing an effective tax rate of (2.8)% for the same period in 2019. There is a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, excluding our deferred tax asset on our Bermuda captive insurance companys discounted unpaid loss reserve. Previously, in assessing the requirement for, and amount of, a valuation allowance in accordance with the standard, we determined it was more likely than not we would not realize our deferred tax assets and established a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets. As of September 30, 2020, we have determined that the valuation allowance is still necessary. 69 Table of Contents Net (Loss) Income Attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. The following discussion applies to categories between net income (loss) and net income (loss) attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. in our consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interests On February 2, 2015, FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC (FC-GEN) combined with Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. and the combined results were consolidated with approximately 42.0% direct noncontrolling economic interest shown as noncontrolling interest in the financial statements of the combined entity. The direct noncontrolling economic interest is in the form of Class C common stock of FC-GEN that are exchangeable on a 1-to-1 basis to our public shares. The direct noncontrolling economic interest will continue to decrease as Class C common stock of FC-GEN are exchanged for public shares. Since the combination, there have been conversions of 9.0 million Class C common stock, leaving a remaining direct noncontrolling economic interest of approximately 32.9%. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, (loss) income of $(32.1) million and $7.7 million, respectively, has been attributed to the Class C common stock. In addition to the noncontrolling interests attributable to the Class C common stock holders, our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all entities controlled by us through our ownership of a majority voting interest and the accounts of any VIEs where we are subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the VIE's activities, or entitled to receive a majority of the entity's residual returns, or both. We adjust net income attributable to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. to exclude the net income attributable to the third party ownership interests of the VIEs. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, loss of $(3.1) million and ($8.9) million, respectively, has been attributed to these unaffiliated third parties. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow and Liquidity The following table presents selected data from our consolidated statements of cash flows (in thousands): Nine months ended September 30, 2020 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 281,158 $ 15,758 Net cash used in investing activities (45,574) (393,034) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (63,852) 363,069 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and equivalents 171,732 (14,207) Beginning of period 125,806 142,276 End of period $ 297,538 $ 128,069 Net cash provided by operating activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 increased $265.4 million compared with the same period in 2019. The nine months ended September 30, 2020 include receipt of Medicare advances of $155.8 million and $64.7 million from the deferral of payroll taxes under the CARES Act. The remaining increase in cash provided by operating activities is attributed to a combination of state and federal COVID-19 grants, offset by the cost and lost revenue caused by COVID-19 and the timing of payments. 70 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $45.6 million compared to net cash used in investing activities of $393.0 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Routine capital expenditures for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 decreased by $5.0 million as compared with the same period in the prior year. Net sales and maturities of marketable securities of $0.8 million in 2020 was less than net sales of marketable securities of $8.8 million in 2019, resulting in a net reduction in cash provided of $8.0 million. In the nine months ended September 30, 2020, there were asset purchases of $207.3 million primarily as a result of the acquisition of eight skilled nursing facilities by the consolidated Cascade Partnership and one skilled nursing facility by the consolidated Vantage Point Partnership as described in Significant Transaction and Events compared to asset sales of $218.6 million comprised primarily of the real property of 14 owned facilities and leasehold rights of 13 leased facilities described in Significant Transaction and Events . In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, there were asset purchases of $252.5 million by the consolidated Next Partnership and its acquisition of 22 skilled nursing facilities and asset sale proceeds of $79.0 million resulting from the simultaneous sale of seven skilled nursing facilities. Also in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, there were asset purchases of $339.2 million as a result of the consolidation of the Vantage Point Partnership and its acquisition of 18 skilled nursing facilities. The nine months ended September 30, 2019 also included $66.9 million in proceeds from the sale of seven facilities in California as well as $91.7 million in proceeds from the sale of eight facilities in Georgia, New Jersey, Virginia and Maryland. The nine months ended September 30, 2020 provided cash of $12.9 million on the receipt of restricted deposits compared to payments of restricted deposits of $1.2 million in the same period in the prior year. The nine months ended September 30, 2020 included cash used of $16.9 million for an investment in a new joint venture and cash used of $9.0 million extending the new joint venture a loan as described in Significant Transaction and Events. The remaining incremental use of cash in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared to the same period in the prior year of $3.1 million was due primarily to notes receivable activity. Net cash used in financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $63.9 million compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $363.1 million in the September 30, 2019. The net increase in cash used in financing activities of $426.9 million is principally attributed to debt repayments exceeding new borrowings in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019. In the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we had proceeds from the issuance of debt of $227.9 million, consisting primarily of $193.5 million by the consolidated Cascade Partnership, $7.3 million by the consolidated Vantage Point Partnership and $26.1 million in HUD refinancings by our consolidated Next Partnership. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we had proceeds from the issuance of debt of $480.9 million primarily resulting from the consolidation of the Next Partnership and Vantage Point Partnership. Repayment of long-term debt in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $167.5 million compared to $133.9 million in the same period of the prior year. In the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we repaid $85.0 million in HUD-insured loans, $27.0 million in MidCap Real Estate Loans, $9.1 million in Welltower Real Estate Loans, $15.0 million in a short-term note payable and $24.5 million in term loan paydowns associated with the consolidated Next Partnership. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we repaid $39.8 million in MidCap Real Estate Loans and $42.2 million in HUD-insured loans using proceeds from the sale of 12 facilities and reduced the term loan facility of the ABL Credit Facilities by $40.0 million while increasing the revolving credit facilities by the same amount. The remaining decrease in cash used to repay long-term debt of $5.2 million relates to a decrease in routine debt payments. In the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we had net repayments under the revolving credit facilities of $136.0 million as compared with $3.5 million of net borrowings under the revolving credit facilities in the same period in 2019. In the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we paid debt issuance costs of $3.6 million associated with loans incurred by our consolidated partnerships. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we paid debt issuance costs of $8.3 million resulting from the consolidation of the Next Partnership and the Vantage Point Partnership. In the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we received contributions from a noncontrolling interest for $21.2 million resulting from the consolidation of the Cascade Partnership. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we received contributions from a noncontrolling interest for $18.5 million and $8.5 million resulting from the consolidation of the aforementioned Next Partnership and Vantage Point Partnership, respectively. The remaining net increase in cash provided by financing activities of $0.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 is due to a decrease in distributions to noncontrolling interests partially offset by an increase in repayments of finance lease obligations. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash flows from operations, borrowings under our asset based lending facilities (ABL Credit Facilities) and the receipt of government-sponsored financial support in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. At September 30, 2020, we had total liquidity of $280.7 million consisting of cash on hand of $233.3 million and available borrowings under our ABL Credit Facilities of $47.4 million. During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we maintained liquidity sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and development activities. 71 Table of Contents COVID-19 Impact on Liquidity We have taken, and will continue to take, actions to enhance and preserve our liquidity in response to the pandemic. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, our usual sources of liquidity have been supplemented by grants and advanced Medicare payments under programs expanded or created under the CARES Act. Specifically, in the second quarter of 2020, we applied for and received $156.8 million of advanced Medicare payments and from April through September 2020 received approximately $254.0 million of relief grants and other forms of federal relief, such as the temporary suspension of Medicare sequestration. In addition, we have elected to implement the CARES Act payroll tax deferral program, which is expected to preserve on an interest free basis approximately $90.0 million of cash representing the employer portion of payroll taxes estimated to be incurred between March 27, 2020 and December 31, 2020, of which approximately $65.0 million was realized through September 30, 2020. The advance Medicare payments of $156.8 million, which are also interest free, are expected to be recouped between April 2021 and February 2022, while one-half of the payroll tax deferral amount will become due on each of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2022. In addition to relief funding under the CARES Act, funding has been committed by a number of states in which we operate, currently estimated at $85.0 million, of which approximately $76.0 million has been recognized in net revenue through September 30, 2020. We continue to seek opportunities to enhance and preserve our liquidity, including through reducing expenses, continuing to evaluate our capital structure, pursuing strategic liquidity enhancing transactions and seeking further government-sponsored financial relief related to the pandemic. We cannot provide assurance that such efforts will be successful or adequate to offset the lost revenue and escalating operating expenses as a result of the pandemic. Liquidity and Going Concern Considerations We performed an assessment to determine whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date the financial statements are issued. Initially, this assessment does not consider the potential mitigating effect of managements plans that have not been fully implemented. When substantial doubt exists, management assesses the mitigating effect of our plans to determine if it is probable that (1) the plans will be effectively implemented within one year after the date the financial statements are issued, and (2) when implemented, the plans will mitigate the relevant conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entitys ability to continue as a going concern. In completing our going concern assessment, we considered the uncertainties around the impact of COVID-19 on our future results of operations as well as our current financial condition and liquidity sources, including current funds available, forecasted future cash flows and our conditional and unconditional obligations due within 12 months following the date our financial statements were issued. Without giving effect to the prospect, timing and adequacy of future governmental funding support and other mitigating plans, many of which are beyond our control, it is unlikely that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our required financial obligations, including our rent obligations, our debt service obligations and other obligations due to third parties. The existence of these conditions raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. In response to COVID-19, and other conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, we have taken the following measures: We applied for and received government-sponsored financial relief related to the pandemic; We are utilizing the CARES Act payroll tax deferral program to delay payment of a portion of payroll taxes incurred through December 2020, with 50% to be repaid in December 2021 and the remaining 50% to be repaid in December 2022; While we vigorously advocate, for ourself and the skilled nursing industry, regarding the need for additional government-sponsored funding, we continue to explore and to take advantage of existing government-sponsored funding programs implemented to support businesses impacted by COVID-19; We continue to seek and implement measures to adapt our operational model to function for the long-term in a COVID-19 environment; We have pursued, and will continue to pursue, creative and accretive opportunities to sell assets and enter into joint venture structures in order to provide liquidity; and 72 Table of Contents We are exploring and evaluating a number of strategic and other alternatives to manage and to improve our liquidity position, in order to address the maturity of material indebtedness and other obligations over the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. These measures and other plans and initiatives of ours are designed to provide us with adequate liquidity to meet our obligations for at least the twelve-month period following the date our financial statements are issued. However, such plans and initiatives are dependent on factors that are beyond our control or may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Accordingly, management determined it could not be certain that the plans and initiatives would be effectively implemented within one year after the date the financial statements are issued. Further, even if we receive additional funding support from government sources and/or are able to execute successfully all of our plans and initiatives, given the unpredictable nature of, and the operating challenges presented by, the COVID-19 virus, our operating plans and resulting cash flows together with our cash and cash equivalents and other sources of liquidity may not be sufficient to fund operations for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. Such events and circumstances could force us to seek reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. As such, the accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of assets and their carrying amounts, or the amount and classification of liabilities that may result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Risk and Uncertainties Although we are in compliance with the covenants required by our material debt and material lease agreements at September 30, 2020, the ongoing uncertainty related to the impact of healthcare reform initiatives and the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic may have an adverse impact on our ability to remain in compliance with our financial covenants through November 9, 2021. Without giving effect to the prospect of timely and adequate future governmental funding support and other mitigating plans, many of which are beyond our control, it is unlikely that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our required financial obligations, including our rent obligations, our debt service obligations and other obligations due to third parties. The existence of these conditions raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the twelve-month period following the date the financial statements are issued. There can be no assurance that the confluence of these and other factors will not impede our ability to meet our debt and lease covenants in the future. Financing Activities Divestiture of Non-Strategic Facilities Consistent with our strategy to divest assets in non-strategic markets, we have exited 53 inpatient operations, including 46 skilled nursing facilities, two assisted/senior living facilities and five behavioral health centers in 12 states beginning January 1, 2020 through November 1, 2020, including: The sale of three owned skilled nursing facilities located in North Carolina and Maryland on February 1, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $24.9 million. The transition of operational responsibility for 19 facilities in the states of California, Washington and Nevada to NewGen on February 1, 2020. The transaction included the sale of the real estate and operations of six skilled nursing facilities and transfer of the leasehold rights to seven skilled nursing, five behavioral health centers and one assisted living facility. A gain was recognized totaling $58.8 million. The sale of one owned skilled nursing facility located in California on February 26, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $3.0 million. The lease termination of one assisted/senior living facility located in Montana on March 4, 2020. A de minimis loss was recognized. The sale of three owned skilled nursing facilities located in New Jersey and Maryland on April 1, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $21.7 million. 73 Table of Contents The lease termination of two skilled nursing facilities located in Montana on April 1, 2020. A loss was recognized totaling $0.8 million. The lease termination of six skilled nursing facilities located in Florida and Maryland on April 20, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $11.2 million. The transition of operational responsibility for four additional leased facilities in California to NewGen on May 15, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $5.1 million. The lease termination of six skilled nursing facilities located in Idaho on June 1, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $5.3 million. The sale of one owned skilled nursing facility located in Rhode Island on July 6, 2020. A gain was recognized totaling $5.7 million. The transition of operational responsibility for one additional leased facility in Washington to NewGen on October 1, 2020. The lease termination of two skilled nursing facilities located in Connecticut on October 15, 2020. The sale of the real property and divestiture of the operations of five skilled nursing facilities in Vermont on October 30, 2020. The lease termination of one skilled nursing facility located in Rhode Island on November 1, 2020. Term Loan Agreement Amendment Our term loan agreement (Term Loan Agreement) with an affiliate of Welltower and an affiliate of Omega was set to mature on November 30, 2021. The Term Loan Agreement was amended on November 8, 2020 extending the maturity date to January 1, 2022. Financial Covenants The ABL Credit Facilities, the Term Loan Agreement and the Welltower Real Estate Loans (collectively, the Credit Facilities) each contain a number of financial, affirmative and negative covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and minimum liquidity. At September 30, 2020, we were in compliance with all of the financial covenants contained in the Credit Facilities. We have master lease agreements with Welltower, Omega and Second Spring (collectively, the Master Lease Agreements). Our Master Lease Agreements each contain a number of financial, affirmative and negative covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and minimum liquidity. At September 30, 2020, we were in compliance with the covenants contained in the Master Lease Agreements. We have two master lease agreements with Cindat Best Years Welltower JV LLC involving 28 of our facilities. We did not meet certain financial covenants contained in one of the master lease agreements involving two of our facilities at September 30, 2020. In November 2020, we received a waiver for these covenant breaches through January 1, 2022. At September 30, 2020, we are in compliance with the financial covenants contained in the other master lease agreement. At September 30, 2020, we did not meet certain financial covenants contained in two leases related to four of our facilities. We are current in the timely payment of our obligations under such leases. These leases do not have cross-default provisions, nor do they trigger cross-default provisions in any of our other loan or lease agreements. We will continue to work with the related credit parties to amend such leases and the related financial covenants. We do not believe the breach of such financial covenants has a material adverse impact on us at September 30, 2020. Our ability to maintain compliance with our covenants depends in part on managements ability to increase revenue and control costs, and the extent to which our efforts and the impact of government-sponsored financial relief related to the COVID-19 pandemic adequately and timely offset lost revenue and higher costs caused by the pandemic. Should we fail to comply with our covenants at a future measurement date, we would, absent necessary and timely waivers and/or amendments, be in default under certain of our existing credit agreements. To the extent any cross-default provisions may apply, the default would have a significant adverse impact on our financial position. See Liquidity and Going Concern Considerations . 74 Table of Contents Concentration of Credit Risk We are exposed to the credit risk of our third-party customers, many of whom are in similar lines of business as us and are exposed to the same systemic industry risks of operations as we are, resulting in a concentration of risk. These include organizations that utilize our rehabilitation services, staffing services and physician service offerings, engage in similar business activities or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations, including those to us, to be similarly affected by changes in regulatory and systemic industry conditions. Management assesses its exposure to loss on accounts at the customer level. The greatest concentration of risk exists in our rehabilitation therapy services business where we have over 150 distinct customers, many being chain operators with more than one location. One customer, which is a related party of ours, comprises $31.0 million, or approximately 42%, of the gross outstanding contract receivables in the rehabilitation services business at September 30, 2020. See Note 11 Related Party Transactions. A future adverse event impacting this customer or several other large customers resulting in their insolvency or other economic distress would have a material impact on us. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2020, we were subject to six lease guarantees whereby we guarantee all payments and performance obligations of six facilities leased by the NewGen Partnership. As of September 30, 2020, the six leases have undiscounted cash rent obligations remaining of $86.3 million. As of December 31, 2019, we were not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future impact on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expense, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.