Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 6 , " Segment Information," in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Inpatient Services Segment Skilled Nursing Facilities As of December 31, 2016, our skilled nursing facilities provided skilled nursing care at 473 regionally clustered facilities, having 56,357 licensed beds, in 34 states. We have developed programs for, and actively market our services to, high-acuity patients who are typically admitted to our facilities as they recover from strokes, other neurological conditions, cardiovascular and respiratory ailments, joint replacements and other muscular or skeletal disorders. We use interdisciplinary teams of experienced medical professionals to provide services prescribed by physicians. These teams include registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, certified nursing assistants and other professionals who provide individualized comprehensive nursing care. Many of our skilled nursing facilities are equipped to provide specialty care, such as on-site dialysis, ventilator care, cardiac and pulmonary management. We also provide standard services to each of our skilled nursing patients, including room and board, special nutritional programs, social services, recreational activities and related healthcare and other services. Our PowerBack Rehabilitation branded facilities are designed to provide short-stay skilled nursing facilities which deliver a comprehensive rehabilitation regimen in accommodations specifically designed to serve high-acuity patients. We believe that having PowerBack Rehabilitation facilities enables us to more effectively serve higher acuity patients and achieve a higher skilled mix than a traditional hybrid skilled nursing facility, which in turn results in higher reimbursement rates. Skilled mix is the average daily number of Medicare and insurance patients we serve at our skilled nursing facilities divided by the average daily number of total patients we serve at our skilled nursing facilities. Insurance as a payor source includes both traditional commercial insurance programs as well as managed care plans, including Medicare Advantage plans. As of December 31, 2016, we operated 10 PowerBack Rehabilitation facilities with 997 beds. As of December 31, 2016, we have 42 facilities subject to management agreements with unaffiliated or jointly owned skilled nursing facility operators. The income associated with the management services provided to the third-party facility operator is included in inpatient services in our segment reporting as services are performed primarily by personnel supporting the inpatient services segment. Our administrative service company provides a full complement of administrative and consultative services to our affiliated operators to allow them to better focus on the delivery of healthcare services. Assisted/Senior Living Facilities We complement our skilled nursing care business by providing assisted/senior living services at 26 stand-alone facilities with 2,182 beds and offer an additional 1,452 assisted/senior living beds within our skilled nursing facilities as of December 31, 2016. Our assisted/senior living facilities provide residential accommodations, activities, meals, security, housekeeping and assistance in the activities of daily living to seniors who are independent or who require some support, but not the level of nursing care provided in a skilled nursing facility. Rehabilitation Therapy Services As of December 31, 2016, we provided rehabilitation therapy services, including speech-language pathology (SLP), physical therapy (PT), occupational therapy (OT) and respiratory therapy, to approximately 1,700 healthcare 2 Table of Contents locations in 45 states and the District of Columbia, including 461 facilities operated by us. We provide rehabilitation therapy services at our skilled nursing facilities and assisted/senior living facilities as part of an integrated service offering in connection with our skilled nursing care. We believe that an integrated approach to treating high-acuity patients enhances our ability to achieve successful patient outcomes and enables us to identify and treat patients who can benefit from our rehabilitation therapy services. We believe hospitals and physician groups often refer high-acuity patients to our skilled nursing facilities because they recognize the value of an integrated approach to providing skilled nursing care and rehabilitation therapy services. We believe that we have also established a strong reputation as a premium provider of rehabilitation therapy services to third-party skilled nursing operators in our local markets, with a recognized ability to provide these services to high-acuity patients. Our approach to providing rehabilitation therapy services for third-party operators emphasizes quality treatment and successful clinical outcomes. In addition to our rehabilitation therapy services in the United States, we have a presence in the Chinese and Hong Kong markets with initiatives to develop a rehabilitation therapy care delivery model and other services. The revenues generated and long-lived assets associated with this expansion are immaterial as of December 31, 2016. Other Services As of December 31, 2016, we provided an array of other specialty medical services, including physician services, staffing services, and other healthcare related services. Industry Trends Over the past several decades, dynamic changes in the healthcare market have reshaped the landscape for post-acute and long-term care support services. Demand for services has traditionally been driven by changing demographics, including age. The prevalence of disability and functional impairment is age-related. Market force changes across the healthcare spectrum had realigned the capabilities and responsiveness of health providers. Payment incentives had reshaped the role of the acute care sector imposing an increased emphasis on shorter lengths of inpatient stays. This shifted the focus of rehabilitative and recuperative services to post-acute providers. Traditionally, over 35% of hospital discharges required further medical intervention. For those patients over the age of 70 years requiring follow-through care, a significant portion were discharged to the post-acute/skilled nursing sector. The post-acute/skilled nursing sector had expanded clinical and rehabilitative capacities to meet this demand. Among the major changes in the delivery of long-term care services was this rising demand for short-stay/post-acute care. Skilled nursing facilities had strengthened clinical specialization delivering high intensity rehabilitation, restorative care and specialized clinical programs with emphasis on successful discharges to home- and community-based settings. In addition to responding to the rehabilitative and restorative needs of patients discharged from the acute care sector, center-based programs continue to provide medical, social and specialized supportive services for those patients whose medical and functional conditions are such that they require nursing home care and protective services. Programs have been developed to provide dementia care, palliative and hospice services and long-stay home-life environments. Over the last several years, the post-acute/long-term care services sector has responded to the broader trends reshaping healthcare delivery: (i) value, (ii) cost efficiencies, (iii) measured quality and outcomes, (iv) care coordinating integration, and (v) patient/resident centered care. The post-acute care/skilled nursing and rehabilitation sectors are investing efforts and energies to demonstrate value, to strengthen care efficiencies and to develop measurable benchmarks for performance. Changes in post-acute and long-term care services sector include: Aging Demographic Trends : According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), 70% of the U.S. population over the age of 65 can expect to use some form of post-acute care during their lives. While we are currently experiencing a trough in the number of people over the age of 65, demographic trends are expected to improve. Post-acute 3 Table of Contents care spending is expected to rise as the populations of people in the U.S. over the ages of 65 are expected to increase from 46 million in 2014, to 56 million in 2020 and to 98 million older persons by 2060, more than twice the number in 2014. As the average life expectancy continues to increase and as the elderly population becomes a greater proportion of the overall U.S. population, management expects there to be an increasing demand for nursing and post-acute care. Supply/Demand Dynamics : The supply of skilled nursing facilities has been decreasing, partially due to the increase in required clinical capabilities to care for higher acuity patients. In the coming years, management expects a supply and demand imbalance in the skilled nursing industry due to the continued decline in the supply of beds and the projected increase in an aging population with longer life expectancies. Shift of Patients to Quality Care in Cost-Effective Settings: As a result of rising U.S. healthcare costs, government regulations and payor preferences have led to a shift in the provision of care for higher acuity patients to less costly settings. Government sponsored programs, private insurance companies and other third-party payors have recognized that treating patients requiring complex medical care in skilled nursing facilities is a cost-effective alternative to receiving treatment in an inpatient rehabilitation facility (IRF) or long-term acute care (LTAC) hospital. This dynamic makes skilled nursing facilities an attractive provider for payors and acute care hospitals seeking cost effective quality care settings when discharging patients. As a result, skilled nursing facilities are generally serving a larger population of higher acuity patients than in the past. Growth of Medicare and Medicaid Replacement Programs through Managed Care Organizations: As the expansion of Medicaid and Medicare continues, we expect migration towards managed care programs because managed Medicaid and Medicare programs improve access to coordinated healthcare services, including preventive care, and are designed to control healthcare costs. We believe post-acute providers like ours with sufficient size and scale to provide clinically coordinated care across the entire post-acute care continuum are well positioned to obtain more referrals and become a provider of choice for these payors. Value-Based Care Delivery and Reimbursement Reform: A significant goal of federal healthcare reform is to transform the delivery of healthcare by changing reimbursement for healthcare services to hold providers accountable for the cost and quality of care provided. Medicare is implementing Value-Based Care Delivery models to focus on patient outcomes and cost containment along the entire healthcare continuum. Accordingly, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is implementing demonstration and mandatory programs to bundle acute care and post-acute care reimbursement to hold providers accountable for costs across a broader continuum of care. These reimbursement methodologies and similar programs are likely to continue and expand, both in public and commercial health plans. On January 26, 2015, CMS announced its goal to have up to 50% of Medicare payments for quality and value through alternative payment models such as Accountable Care Organizations (ACO) or bundled payments by 2018. Providers who respond successfully to these trends and are able to deliver quality care at lower cost are likely to benefit financially. Acquisition Opportunities : The skilled nursing industry is large and highly fragmented, characterized predominantly by numerous local and regional providers. We believe this fragmentation provides significant acquisition opportunities for us. Revenue Sources We derive revenue primarily from the Medicaid and Medicare programs, managed care and commercial insurance payors and private pay patients. Medicaid Medicaid typically covers patients that require standard room and board services, and provides reimbursement rates that are generally lower than rates earned from other sources. Medicaid is a program financed by state funds and matching federal funds administered by the states and their political subdivisions. Medicaid programs generally provide health benefits for qualifying individuals, and may supplement Medicare benefits for persons aged 65 and older meeting financial eligibility. Medicaid reimbursement formulas are established by each state with the approval of the federal government in accordance with federal guidelines. Seniors who enter skilled nursing facilities as private pay clients can become eligible 4 Table of Contents for Medicaid once they have substantially depleted their assets. Medicaid is the largest source of funding for skilled nursing facilities. Reimbursement varies from state to state and is based upon a number of different systems, including cost-based, prospective payment and negotiated rate systems. Rates are subject to statutory and regulatory changes and interpretations and rulings by individual state agencies. During recent years, a number of states have advanced initiatives expanding managed care programs to include managing long-term care support services for Medicaid residents. Some states have focused efforts towards integrating Medicare and Medicaid delivery for individuals who are dually eligible for both programs. Across the states, there are a number of pilot initiatives underway. Most of these initiatives attempt to improve integration of delivery, strengthen care management and improve cost efficiencies. Medicare Medicare is a federal program that provides healthcare benefits to individuals who are 65 years of age or older or are disabled. To achieve and maintain Medicare certification, a skilled nursing facility must sign a Medicare provider agreement and meet the CMS Requirements for Participation on an ongoing basis, as determined in periodic facility inspections or surveys conducted primarily by the state licensing agency in the state where the facility is located. Medicare pays for inpatient skilled nursing facility services under the prospective payment system. The prospective payment for each beneficiary is based upon the medical condition of and care needed by the beneficiary. Medicare Part A skilled nursing facility coverage is limited to 100 days per episode of illness for those beneficiaries who require daily care following discharge from an acute care hospital. Medicare Part A provides for inpatient services including hospital care, skilled nursing care, hospice and home healthcare. Medicare Part B provides for outpatient services including physician services, diagnostic services, durable medical equipment, skilled therapy services and medical supplies. Medicare Part C is a managed care option (Medicare Advantage) for beneficiaries who are entitled to Part A and enrolled in Part B and are administered by commercial health insurers that contract with Medicare or Medicaid. Medicare Part D is a benefit that provides prescription drug benefits for both Medicare and Medicare/Medicaid dual eligible patients. Medicare reimburses our skilled nursing facilities under a prospective payment system (PPS) for a defined bundle of inpatient covered services. Medicare coverage criteria requires that a beneficiary spend at least three qualifying days in an inpatient acute setting before Medicare will cover the skilled nursing service. While beneficiaries are eligible for up to 100 days per spell of illness of skilled nursing care services (defined as requiring daily skilled nursing and/or skilled rehabilitation services), current law imposes a daily co-payment after the 20 th day of covered services. Under a PPS, facilities are paid a predetermined amount per patient, per day, for certain services based on the anticipated costs of treating patients. The amount to be paid is determined by classifying each patient into a resource utilization group (RUG) category that is based upon each patient's acuity level. Under PPS, Medicare reimburses our skilled nursing facilities for a defined bundle of Medicare Part A services. For Medicare beneficiaries who qualify for the Medicare Part A coverage, rehabilitation services are purchased through the per diem payment. For beneficiaries who do not meet the coverage criteria for Part A services, rehabilitation services may be purchased under Medicare Part B. As discussed above, there are specific coverage and payment requirements. One of the more challenging rehabilitation requirements is that covered Part B services are limited with a payment cap by combined SLP and PT services and a separate annual cap for OT services. These caps were implemented under the authority of the Balanced Budget Amendments of 1997. On multiple occasions during the past two decades, Congress 5 Table of Contents has interceded to suspend the therapy caps offering an exceptions process so claims in excess of the annualized cap can be processed. Current law requires CMS to calculate an annual market basket update to the payment rates. Provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (PPACA) directed the agency to reduce that payment level by a calculated multi-factor productivity adjustment. The agency also retains the authority to review and adjust payments for corrections to previous year market baskets where over/under payment exceeded 0.05% between the projected market basket and the actual performance. Annually, on a federal fiscal year basis (October 1), the agency makes its payment changes. Normally CMS issues proposed rules during April providing 60-days for stakeholder input, and issues finalized rules 60 days prior to the start of the fiscal year. If there are no substantive changes in rules and regulations, the agency has the authority to issue rate adjustments in a notice, rather than a proposed rule. The notice must be issued 60 days before the beginning of the fiscal year. Congress has the authority to change the law governing how all providers, including skilled nursing providers, are reimbursed, and the criteria and conditions for coverage. For example, under the Budget Control Act of 201l, Congress authorized a 2% sequestration on Medicare payments to most providers. Subsequent actions by Congress extended sequestration through 2023. Indeed, during the past two years, Congress has enacted several new laws that impact how skilled nursing facilities are reimbursed under Medicare. The Protecting Access to Medicare Act (PAMA) of 2014 established a skilled nursing facility Value-Based Incentive/Penalty program based on hospital readmissions. The fiscal year 2016 final skilled nursing facilities PPS rules set forth the criteria for this program to be implemented by 2019. The IMPACT (Improving Medicare Post-Acute Care Transformation) Act of 2014 establishes an aggressive time-line for standardized patient assessment for post-acute providers, including skilled nursing facilities. CMS has been engaging stakeholders in developing implementation instructions. CMS issued new guidelines on July 30, 2015, published in the Federal Register on August 4, 2015, which included new quality reporting requirements and instructions for establishing a value-based purchasing incentive program based on hospital-readmissions performance. CMS has not indicated whether there will be skilled nursing facility PPS rule-making for fiscal year 2017. The agency is expected to provide additional guidance regarding implementation of the IMPACT Act. The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 extended the therapy exceptions process but added a second tier cap mandating Medical Manual Review for claims submitted that exceeded $3,700 for PT and SLP services combined and another threshold of $3,700 for OT services. The Medicare Access & CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, which authorized payment reforms for physicians and other professional services, including the three rehabilitative therapies, included provisions not only stabilizing the professional fee schedules, but also extending the therapy cap exceptions process through December 31, 2017. In addition to setting the payment rules for skilled nursing facility services, CMS annually adjusts its payment rules for other post-acute services including inpatient rehabilitation facilities, long-stay inpatient hospitals, home health agencies and hospice services. It is important to understand the Medicare program and its reimbursement rates and rules are subject to frequent change. These include statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments (including retroactive adjustments), administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates at which Medicare reimburses us for our services. Budget pressures often lead the federal government to reduce or place limits on reimbursement rates under Medicare. Implementation of these and other types of measures has in the past, and could in the future, result in substantial reductions in our revenue and operating margins. 6 Table of Contents Managed Care and Commercial Insurance Managed care patients are insured by certain third-party entities, typically a senior HMO plan, or who are Medicare beneficiaries who have assigned their Medicare benefits to a Medicare Advantage HMO plan. Another type of insurance, long-term care insurance, is also becoming more widely available to consumers, but is not expected to contribute significantly to industry revenues in the near term. Private and Other Payors Private and other payors consist primarily of individuals, family members or other third parties who directly pay for the services we provide. Reimbursement for our Services Reimbursement for Skilled Nursing Facilities The majority of skilled nursing facility revenues in the U.S. come from Medicare and Medicaid, with the remainder of revenues derived from managed care and commercial insurance, other third-party sources and private pay. Typically, all patients that enter a skilled nursing facility begin as a short-term acute care patient and either get discharged, or become long-term care residents. After a patient no longer qualifies for skilled care under Medicare, the reimbursement of costs incurred by a skilled nursing facility patient will be shifted to private pay (out of pocket) resources and then Medicaid if the patient qualifies. Historically, adjustments to reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid have had a significant effect on our revenue and results of operations. Recently enacted, pending and proposed legislation and administrative rulemaking at the federal and state levels could have similar effects on our business. Efforts to impose reduced reimbursement rates, greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any delay or default by the federal or state governments in making Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement payments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reimbursement for Assisted/Senior Living Facilities Assisted/senior living facilities generate revenues primarily from private pay sources, including third-party insurance and self pay, with only a small portion derived from government sources. Reimbursement for Rehabilitation Services Outside of therapy received during a Medicare Part A covered stay of up to 100 days, most of our rehabilitation therapy services are typically reimbursed under the Medicare Part B program. The payments made to our rehabilitation therapy services segment for services it provides to skilled nursing facilities are determined by negotiated patient per diem rates or a negotiated fee schedule based on the type of service rendered. In addition, this segment is also directly reimbursed from the Medicare Part B program and other insurance companies through its certified outpatient rehabilitation agencies and group practices for services provided in assisted living facilities, homes and the community. Recent Regulatory and other Governmental Actions Affecting Revenue Skilled Nursing Facilities Healthcare Reform Initiatives We believe we are transforming our business and operations for success in a post-healthcare reform environment. As healthcare reform continues to be implemented, we believe post-acute healthcare providers who provide quality diversified care, have density and strong reputations in local markets, have good relationships with acute care hospitals 7 Table of Contents and payors and operate with scale will have a competitive advantage in an episodic payment environment. We believe our organic and strategic growth strategies should position us to become a valuable partner to acute care hospitals and managed care organizations that are seeking to increase care coordination, reduce lengths of stay and hospital readmissions, more effectively manage healthcare costs and develop new care delivery and payment models. As the industry and its regulators engage in this new environment, we are positioning ourselves to adapt to changes that are ultimately made to the delivery system: Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) Effective January 1, 2016, we entered Genesis Physician Services (GPS), our physician services subsidiary, into the MSSP. While beneficiary attribution is retrospective, preliminary data show that we are managing approximately 15,000 Medicare fee for service beneficiaries with annualized Medicare spending of more than $800 million. These numbers are subject to modification and will not be reconciled by the CMS until mid-2017. Successful participation requires us to save at least approximately three percent of the total Medicare spend under management in order to share in up to 50 percent of the savings with CMS predicated upon achieving certain quality initiatives. Once the savings hurdle has been reached, Genesis begins sharing based on the first dollar of savings. Bundled Payments for Care Improvement (BPCI) Participation success is determined retrospectively given the lack of available historical data around the bundles, however, we have received four quarterly reconciliations in 2016 representing the last three fiscal quarters of 2015 and the first quarter in 2016. The reconciliations for these four fiscal quarters netted a positive $3.8 million. In addition, we received the reconciliation for the second quarter of 2016 in January 2017 which netted a positive $1.9 million. Cumulatively, the five quarters of reconciled data provide the necessary historical data, combined with our current period data, to accrue the third and fourth quarters of 2016 as a net positive of $4.3 million for both quarters. Based on the BPCI quarterly reconciliations, accumulated historical data and current data, we have recorded a net positive amount of $10.0 million in 2016. Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement (CJR) The CJR model focuses on coordinated, patient-centered care. Under this model, the hospital in which the hip or knee replacement takes place would be accountable for the costs and quality of care from the time of the surgery through 90 days after an episode of care. On April 1, 2016, the CJR Program went into effect in 67 metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) throughout the country. We have approximately 100 facilities in 22 of those MSAs. While the program was recently enacted, we have already experienced a significant decline from this class of diagnosis-related groups from recent years primarily due to the proliferation of ACOs and the BPCI program resulting from the PPACA. Vitality to You We continue to make great progress with our new Vitality to You service offering which brings medically necessary outpatient rehab therapy services directly to patients in the home and community. In 2016, Vitality to You saw revenue expand by 132% as compared to 2015. Medicare Rate Increase On July 29, 2016, CMS issued a final rule for fiscal year 2017 outlining a net increase of 2.4% to Medicare reimbursement rates for skilled nursing facilities attributable to a 2.7% market basket increase, reduced by a 0.3% multi-factor productivity adjustment required by law. The final rule continues the shift to move the Medicare program, and the health care system at large, toward paying providers based on the quality, rather than the quantity, of care. The final rule also further defines and notes changes in consolidated billing for skilled nursing facilities for fiscal year 2017 (which began October 1, 2016) ; the Value-Based Purchasing (VBP) Program; the quality reporting program and the payments models research. Effective October 1, 2017, the fiscal year 2018 market basket will be limited to a 1% increase. On July 30, 2015, CMS issued its final rule outlining fiscal year 2016 Medicare payment rates for skilled nursing facilities. CMS estimated that aggregate payments to skilled nursing facilities would increase by 1.2% for fiscal year 2016 (which began October 1, 2015). This estimated increase reflected a 2.3% market basket increase, reduced by a 8 Table of Contents 0.6% forecast error adjustment and further reduced by a 0.5% multi-factor productivity adjustment required by the PPACA. This final rule also identified a new skilled nursing facility VBP and an all-cause all-condition hospital readmission measure. On July 31, 2014, CMS issued its final rule providing for, among other things, a net increase of 2.0% in PPS payments to skilled nursing facilities for CMS fiscal year 2015 (which began October 1, 2014) as compared to the PPS payments in CMS fiscal year 2014 (which ended September 30, 2014). The 2.0% increase is on a net basis, after the application of a 2.5% market basket increase reduced by a 0.5% multi-factor productivity adjustment required by the PPACA. There was no forecast error adjustment. Episode Payment Models (EPM) On January 3, 2017, CMS issued its final rule implementing three new Medicare Parts A and B episode payment models and implements changes to the existing CJR model. Under the three new episode payment models, acute care hospitals in certain selected geographic areas will participate in retrospective episode payment models targeting care for Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries receiving services during acute myocardial infarction (AMI), coronary artery bypass graft (CABG), and surgical hip/femur fracture treatment (SHFFT) episodes. AMI and CABG episodes will be tested in 98 MSAs and SHFFT episodes will be tested in the current 67 MSAs participating in CJR. The SHFFT payment model will support clinicians in providing care to patients who received surgery after a hip fracture, other than hip replacement. All related care within 90 days of hospital discharge will be included in the episode of care. Hospitals may share in risk and savings with other providers, including skilled nursing facilities. The provisions contained in the instructions become effective July 1, 2017. Civil Monetary Penalties (CMP) On November 2, 2015, the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015 (the 2015 Act) became law. Prior to 2015, CMPs authorized under the Social Security Act were exempt from inflation adjustments under the law. The 2015 Act requires agencies to: Adjust the level of applicable CMPs with an initial catch-up adjustment, through interim final rulemaking (IFR); and, Make subsequent annual adjustments for inflation. The 2015 Act provides that catch-up adjustments are based on the percentage change between the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U) for the month of October in the year a CMP was originally established and the CPI-U for October 2015. Subsequent annual adjustments are based on the extent to which of the CPI-U for the month of October of a current year exceeds the CPI for the month of October of the previous year. These new CMP amounts apply to any CMP imposed on or after September 6, 2016 (the effective date of the IFR) for noncompliant conduct that occurred on or after November 2, 2015, regardless of when the noncompliance was identified. The IFR only affects specific CMP amounts and not any other related provisions, such as the factors reviewed for assessing CMPs for example. Many of the CMPs have been unadjusted for decades. The inflationary increase effectively doubles the cost to skilled nursing facilities for these adjusted CMPs. Requirements for Participation On October 4, 2016, CMS published a final rule to make major changes to improve the care and safety of residents in long-term care facilities that participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The policies in this final rule are targeted at reducing unnecessary hospital readmissions and infections, improving the quality of care, and strengthening safety measures for residents in these facilities. 9 Table of Contents Changes finalized in this rule include: Strengthening the rights of long-term care facility residents, including prohibiting the use of pre-dispute binding arbitration agreements. Ensuring that long-term care facility staff members are properly trained on caring for residents with dementia and in preventing elder abuse. Ensuring that long-term care facilities take into consideration the health of residents when making decisions on the kinds and levels of staffing a facility needs to properly take care of its residents. Ensuring that staff members have the right skill sets and competencies to provide person-centered care to residents. The care plans developed for residents will take into consideration their goals of care and preferences. Improving care planning, including discharge planning for all residents with involvement of the facilitys interdisciplinary team and consideration of the caregivers capacity, giving residents information they need for follow-up after discharge, and ensuring that instructions are transmitted to any receiving facilities or services. Allowing dietitians and therapy providers the authority to write orders in their areas of expertise when a physician delegates the responsibility and state licensing laws allow. Updating the long-term care facilitys infection prevention and control program, including requiring an infection prevention and control officer and an antibiotic stewardship program that includes antibiotic use protocols and a system to monitor antibiotic use. The regulations took effect on November 28, 2016. CMS is implementing the regulations using a phased approach. The phases are as follows: Phase 1: The regulations included in Phase 1 were implemented November 28, 2016. Phase 2: The regulations included in Phase 2 must be implemented by November 28, 2017. Phase 3: The regulations included in Phase 3 must be implemented by November 28, 2019. Some regulatory sections are divided among more than one phase, and some of the more extensive new requirements have been placed in later phases to allow facilities time to successfully prepare for compliance. The total costs associated with implementing the new regulations are not known at this time. Failure to comply with the new regulations could result in exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have substantially complied with the regulations imposed through the Phase 1 implementation thus far. Improving Medicare Post-Acute Care Transformation Act (IMPACT) In 2014, with strong support from most stakeholders, Congress enacted the IMPACT Act. The intent of this enactment was to improve the uniformity of data reporting across the post-acute sector and to move forward with a common assessment tool rationalizing the delivery of post-acute services. The IMPACT Act requires that CMS develop and implement quality measures from five quality measure domains using standardized assessment data. In addition, the IMPACT Act requires the development and reporting of measures pertaining to resource use, hospitalization, and discharge to the community. Through the use of standardized quality measures and standardized data, the intent of the IMPACT Act, among other obligations, is to enable interoperability and access to longitudinal information for providers to facilitate coordinated care, improved outcomes, and overall quality comparisons. Data collection for certain measures including pressure ulcers, falls and functional goals will be gathered quarterly beginning October 1, 2016 with a deadline to submit errors by May 15, 2017. Failure to submit the required data will result in a 2% Medicare payment penalty beginning October 1, 2017. 10 Table of Contents Skilled Nursing Facility Value-Based Purchasing Program (VBP) The CMS Skilled Nursing Facility VBP Program is one of many VBP programs that aims to reward quality and improve health care. Beginning October 1, 2018, skilled nursing facilities will have an opportunity to receive incentive payments based on performance on the specified quality measure. PAMA, enacted into law on April 1, 2014, authorized the VBP Program and requires CMS to adopt a VBP payment adjustment for skilled nursing facilities beginning October 1, 2018. By law, the VBP Program is limited to a single readmission measure at a time. PAMA requires CMS to, among other things: Furnish value-based incentive payments to skilled nursing facilities for services beginning October 1, 2018. Develop a methodology for assessing performance scores. Adopt performance standards on a quality measure that include achievement and improvement. Rank skilled nursing facilities based on their performance from low to high. The highest ranked facilities will receive the highest payments, and the facilities ranked in the bottom 40% will receive payments that are less than what they otherwise would have received without the VBP Program. CMS will withhold 2% of Medicare payments starting October 1, 2018, to fund the incentive payment pool and will then redistribute 50% to 70% of the withheld payments back to skilled nursing facilities through the VBP Program. Failure to qualify for the incentive payment pool at levels that at least match the 2% withholding could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Texas Minimum Payment Amount Program We manage the operations of 20 skilled nursing facilities in the state of Texas, which we consolidate through our controlling interests in those entities through management agreements. Those skilled nursing facilities participated in a voluntary supplemental Medicaid payment program known as the Minimum Payment Amount Program (MPAP), which expired August 31, 2016. The purpose of MPAP funds was to continue a level of funding for participating skilled nursing facilities so that they could more readily provide quality care to Medicaid beneficiaries. While the state had been actively appealing CMS, the MPAP expired and has not been extended or replaced with a similar funding mechanism. There can be no assurances that such an extension or replacement of those supplemental funds will be reached. On an annualized basis, MPAP provided $62 million of revenue and enhanced pre-tax income of our participating skilled nursing centers by approximately $18 million. Payroll-Based Journal One of the CMS initiatives authorized by the PPACA was to improve the accuracy of nursing home staffing data. CMS initiated and rolled-out an electronic payroll-based journal requirement effective July 1, 2016. This system allows staffing and census information to be collected on a regular and more frequent basis than previously collected. It is also auditable to ensure accuracy. All long-term care facilities have access to this system at no cost to facilities. As discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, the services we provide, the credentials of the employees providing them and the enforcement actions that post-acute nursing home and rehabilitation services are subject to are complex and constantly changing. Virtually all aspects of services provided are regulated. Survey and certification interpretive guidelines, scope of practice acts, admission, assessment and assessment requirements are rigidly enforced. Rehabilitation Services A portion of our rehabilitation therapy service reimbursement is tied to the Medicare Part B program as outpatient therapy services. These are therapy services provided to inpatient residents of skilled nursing facilities who do not meet the rigorous criteria for Medicare Part A coverage or have exhausted their Medicare Part A coverage and patients in the community who are being serviced through Medicare certified outpatient rehabilitation agencies or group practices we 11 Table of Contents operate. These outpatient services are reimbursed under the Medicare Part B fee schedules. These fee schedules are updated annually through rule-making by CMS. As part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Congress established annual caps, commonly referred to as therapy caps, that limit the amounts that can be paid (including deductible and coinsurance amounts) for rehabilitation therapy services rendered to any Medicare beneficiary under Medicare Part B. A specific cap was established for the combined PT and SLP services and a separate cap for OT services without applying for an exception. Under the law, these caps are indexed. In 2015 for PT and SLP services combined, the limit on incurred expenses was $1,940. In 2015 for OT services, the limit was $1,940. On October 30, 2015, CMS issued final rules for calendar year 2016 resulting in respective therapy caps increasing to $1,960. During the past decade and a half, Congress has intervened periodically to suspend and/or revise the cap limitations or provide an exception process. As part of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, Congress directed CMS to develop a process that allows exceptions for Medicare beneficiaries to therapy caps when continued therapy is deemed medically necessary. Since that enactment, Congress has extended the exceptions process to the therapy caps several times. Under the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, Congress extended the exceptions process through December 31, 2017. As part of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, Congress instructed CMS to implement a manual medical review (MMR) process for Medicare Part B therapy claims that qualified for the exceptions process but exceeded a $3,700 threshold (combined PT/SLP services and a separate threshold of $3,700 for OT services). This process was extended as part of the PAMA. Responding to concerns that MMR was causing delays in processing claims and undue hardships, Congress as part of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 extended the MMR process through December 31, 2017, revised the statute to give CMS authority to selectively target its review process and clarified that MMRs should be applied as post-payment reviews. In February 2016, CMS issued an initial notice of how it plans to revise its application of the MMR process. Federal Health Care Reform In addition to the matters described above affecting Medicare and Medicaid participating providers, PPACA enacted several reforms with respect to skilled nursing facilities, including payment measures to realize significant savings of federal and state funds by deterring and prosecuting fraud and abuse in both the Medicare and Medicaid programs. While many of the provisions of PPACA will not take effect for several years or are subject to further refinement through the promulgation of regulations, some key provisions of PPACA are presently effective. Enhanced CMPs and Escrow Provisions . PPACA includes expanded CMP and related provisions applicable to all Medicare and Medicaid providers. CMS rules adopted to implement applicable provisions of PPACA also provide that assessed CMPs may be collected and placed in whole or in part into an escrow pending final disposition of the applicable administrative and judicial appeals processes. To the extent our businesses are assessed large CMPs that are collected and placed into an escrow account pending lengthy appeals, such actions could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. Nursing Home Transparency Requirements . In addition to expanded CMP provisions, PPACA imposes new transparency requirements for Medicare-participating nursing facilities. In addition to previously required disclosures regarding a facility's owners, management and secured creditors, PPACA expanded the required disclosures to include information regarding the facility's organizational structure, additional information on officers, directors, trustees and "managing employees" of the facility (including their names, titles, and start dates of services), and information regarding certain parties affiliated with the facility. The transparency provisions could result in the potential for greater government scrutiny and oversight of the ownership and investment structure for skilled nursing facilities, as well as more extensive disclosure of entities and individuals that comprise part of skilled nursing facilities' ownership and management structure. Suspension of Payments During Pending Fraud Investigations . PPACA provides the federal government with expanded authority to suspend Medicare and Medicaid payments if a provider is investigated for allegations or issues of fraud. This suspension authority creates a new mechanism for the federal government to suspend both Medicare and Medicaid payments for allegations of fraud, independent of whether a state exercises its authority 12 Table of Contents to suspend Medicaid payments pending a fraud investigation. To the extent the suspension of payments provision is applied to one of our businesses for allegations of fraud, such a suspension could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. Overpayment Reporting and Repayment; Expanded False Claims Act Liability . PPACA enacted several important changes that expand potential liability under the federal False Claims Act (FCA). Overpayments related to services provided to both Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries must be reported and returned to the applicable payor within specified deadlines, or else they are considered obligations of the provider for purposes of the federal FCA. This new provision substantially tightens the repayment and reporting requirements generally associated with operations of healthcare providers to avoid FCA exposure. Home- and Community-Based Services . PPACA provides that states can provide home- and community-based attendant services and supports through the Community First Choice State plan option. States choosing to provide home- and community-based services under this option must make such services available to assist with activities of daily living and health related tasks under a plan of care agreed upon by the individual and his/her representative. PPACA also includes additional measures related to the expansion of community- and home-based services and authorizes states to expand coverage of community- and home-based services to individuals who would not otherwise be eligible for them. The expansion of home- and community-based services could reduce the demand for the facility-based services that we provide. Health Care-Acquired Conditions . PPACA provides that the Secretary of HHS must prohibit payments to states for any amounts expended for providing medical assistance for certain medical conditions acquired during the patient's receipt of healthcare services. The CMS regulation implementing this provision of PPACA prohibits states from making payments to providers under the Medicaid program for conditions that are deemed to be reasonably preventable. It uses Medicare's list of preventable conditions in inpatient hospital settings as the base (adjusted for the differences in the Medicare and Medicaid populations) and provides states the flexibility to identify additional preventable conditions and settings for which Medicaid payment will be denied. Value-Based Purchasing. PPACA requires the Secretary of HHS develop a plan to implement a VBP program for payments under the Medicare program for skilled nursing facilities and to submit a report containing the plan to Congress. The intent of the provision is to potentially reconfigure how Medicare pays for healthcare services, moving the program towards rewarding better value, outcomes, and innovations, instead of volume. According to the plan submitted to Congress in June 2012, the funding for the VBP program could come from payment withholds from poor-performing skilled nursing facilities or by holding back a portion of the base payment rate or the annual update for all skilled nursing facilities. The scope of the VBP program is uncertain as to the full effect it would have upon skilled nursing facilities, but its funding or other provisions could negatively affect skilled nursing facilities. Anti-Kickback Statute Amendments. PPACA amended the Anti-Kickback Statute so that (i) a claim that includes items or services violating the Anti-Kickback Statute also would constitute a false or fraudulent claim under the federal FCA and (ii) the intent required to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute is lowered such that a person need not have actual knowledge or specific intent to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute in order for a violation to be deemed to have occurred. These modifications of the Anti-Kickback Statute could expose us to greater risk of inadvertent violations of the statute and to related liability under the federal FCA. The provisions of PPACA discussed above are examples of recently enacted federal health reform provisions that we believe may have a material impact on the long-term care industry generally and on our business. However, the foregoing discussion is not intended to constitute, nor does it constitute, an exhaustive review and discussion of PPACA. It is possible that other provisions of PPACA may be interpreted, clarified, or applied to our businesses in a way that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similar federal and/or state legislation that may be adopted in the future could have similar effects. It is possible that other provisions of PPACA may be implemented and applied to our businesses in a way that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similar federal and/or state legislation that may be adopted in the future could have similar effects. 13 Table of Contents Competitive Strengths We believe that the following competitive strengths will enable us to maintain a leading market position and continue to increase our cash flows. Quality Patient Care, Differentiated Clinical Capabilities and Clinical Specialization : To ensure clinical oversight and continuity of patient care, we employ physicians, physician assistants and nurse practitioners that are primarily involved in providing medical direction and/or direct patient care. This medical staff structure allows for significant involvement of physicians at all levels of the organization, thus ensuring that an emphasis on quality care is maintained. In an effort to further enhance the quality of care that we provide to our patients, we have made significant investments to modernize our physical plant, expand rehabilitation gym capacity and develop clinical specialty units. Since 2007, the number of clinical specialty units in our facilities has grown from 58 units to more than 200 units. The addition of clinical specialty units to our facility portfolio has allowed us to better meet the needs of our patients. These specialty units, along with our advanced capabilities in post-acute cardiac and pulmonary management, differentiate us in local areas, as competitors often do not offer these programs. Our focus on quality patient care, differentiated clinical capabilities and clinical specialization has attracted higher acuity patients who are typically reimbursed by Medicare or managed care payors. Leading Post-Acute Provider : We are a leading provider of post-acute care services. We are the largest operator of skilled nursing facilities in the U.S. and also operate the second largest post-acute rehabilitation therapy services business in the U.S. Our size allows us to realize economies of scale, purchasing power and increased operating efficiencies that are not available to smaller operators. Our scale also positions us to take advantage of potential acquisition opportunities in the fragmented post-acute care industry and benefit from synergies not available to many potential acquirers. Strong Geographic Density in Regional Markets : We have developed geographic density in attractive markets with 64% of our total licensed skilled nursing beds located in nine states: California, Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Texas and West Virginia. Within these and other states, we seek to cluster our facilities to create a dense, localized footprint. By clustering our facilities, we are able to provide a larger and more diverse number of clinical services within a regional market. As a result, we are often the leading skilled nursing facility operator in many of the regional markets in which we operate, based on number of beds. Strategically clustered facilities in single or contiguous markets also allow us to achieve lower operating costs through greater purchasing power and operating efficiencies, facilitate the development of strong relations with state and local regulators and provide us with the ability to coordinate sales and marketing strategies. Our strong reputation and operating performance in regional markets also allows us to develop relationships with key referral sources, including hospitals and other managed care payors, which has led to an increase in the number of high-acuity patients that are referred to our facilities. Experienced Management Team with Proven Operating Performance : We have an experienced management team with deep post-acute experience and a track record of growth and integration experience, providing a distinct competitive advantage in navigating the complex and evolving post-acute care industry. Our management team has also demonstrated an ability to consummate successfully and integrate both large and small acquisitions. Key Partnerships and Relationships : We have partnered with hospitals in our local markets to enhance the coordination of patient care during and after a post-acute rehabilitation stay. The goal of these relationships is to provide quality care while lowering hospital readmission rates and reducing overall healthcare costs. Further, these relationships allow us to manage patient outcomes and coordinate care once a patient leaves the acute care setting and enters one of our facilities. We have also forged key relationships with managed care payors to better align quality goals and reimbursement, resulting in a more coordinated care approach that reduces hospital readmissions. As an increasing number of patients gain access to health insurance through healthcare reform or move to managed Medicare and Medicaid programs, we are poised to capture additional market share as managed care companies look to match quality patient care with a cost efficient setting. Growth Strategy We focus on growth through various internal and external initiatives. These initiatives include a continuation of existing core strategies and a number of newly developed strategies designed to capitalize on our competitive strengths 14 Table of Contents and position us for success in a post-healthcare reform environment. These growth strategies can be categorized into the following key initiatives: Commitment to quality care. We are focused on qualitative and quantitative clinical performance measures in order to enhance and improve the care provided in our facilities. We continually seek to enhance our reputation for providing clinical capabilities and favorable outcomes. Among other things, we have and will continue to increase our professional nursing mix and integrate nurse practitioners and employed physicians into our clinical model. We have incentivized our management team to improve clinical performance to further ensure accountability for the quality of care. Capitalize on attractive demographics. With the increasing elderly population and corollary increase in life expectancy, management believes there will be increasing demand for post-acute care services. To address this growing demand and the subsequent increase in healthcare costs, acute care providers will increasingly look to post-acute service providers with demonstrated capabilities and proven performance to play a larger role in the care of medically complex, post-acute care patients. At the same time, both private and public payors are seeking more efficient and economic means of meeting the needs of the growing elderly demographic. Payors prefer to shift patients away from costlier hospital and LTAC settings to skilled nursing facilities, where personalized rehabilitation and skilled nursing care can be provided at a lower cost. To facilitate this transfer, skilled nursing facilities that can demonstrate proven clinical capabilities will be better suited to capture a greater proportion of these patients. As a leading national provider of post-acute services, we are well-positioned to capitalize on the growing demand for post-acute services. Focus on high-acuity patients. We will continue to differentiate our facilities to capture high-acuity patients by growing the number of clinical specialty units, expanding therapy gym capacity, developing the clinical skills of employees, developing relationships with acute care hospitals and managed care payors, and expanding the use of exclusively employed physicians. By treating higher acuity patients, we strive to increase our skilled mix and further position ourselves for shifting demographics of our aging population. Grow the rehabilitation therapy segment. We expect to continue to grow our market share of therapy contracts by further enhancing our reputation in the industry and by demonstrating the value of our services to prospective customers and their patients. We also plan to capitalize on organic cash flow growth opportunities through expansion of clinical therapy services to existing customers and continued improvement in the productivity of our therapists through the use of technology and improved workflow. Improve operating efficiency. We are continually focused on improving operating efficiency and controlling costs, while maintaining quality patient care. Investments in information systems, the development of tools to more effectively manage operating costs and the reengineering of key business and operating processes are an economically effective way to organically grow cash flow. Grow through selective acquisitions and successful integration. The post-acute care industry is highly fragmented. The vast majority of skilled nursing facilities are owned by local and regional groups, providing an opportunity for industry consolidation. As the largest operator of skilled nursing facilities in the United States, we are well positioned to purchase facilities. In todays challenging economic, credit and reimbursement environment, many operators are facing challenges due to scale limitations vis--vis their larger competitors. As local and regional groups seek an exit strategy, we believe we can make compelling offers for their businesses owing to the strong strategic fit with our businesses. Non-strategic buyers and buyers with limited acquisition and integration experience may not be able to achieve the same synergies and, therefore, may not be able to make similar offers. We seek strategic acquisitions in selected target markets with strong demographic trends for growth in our service population. Expansion of existing facility clusters and the creation of new clusters in local markets will allow us to leverage existing operations and to achieve greater operating efficiencies. Given our existing scale and geographic footprint, growth through acquisition can often be achieved more rapidly and efficiently than organic development. Position ourselves for success in a post-healthcare reform environment. As healthcare reform continues to be implemented, we believe post-acute healthcare providers who provide quality diversified care, have density and strong reputations in local markets, have good relationships with acute care hospitals and operate with scale will have a 15 Table of Contents competitive advantage in an episodic payment environment. Our previously described organic and strategic growth strategies will position us well to become a valuable partner to acute care hospitals and managed care organizations that are seeking to increase care coordination, reduce lengths of stay, more effectively manage healthcare costs and develop new care delivery and payment models . Government Regulation General Healthcare is an area of extensive and frequent regulatory change. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws may have a significant impact on our methods and costs of doing business. Our subsidiaries that provide healthcare services are subject to federal, state and local laws relating to, among other things, licensure, delivery, quality and adequacy of care, physical plant requirements, life safety, personnel and operating policies. In addition, our provider subsidiaries are subject to federal and state laws that govern billing and reimbursement, relationships with vendors and business relationships with physicians. Such laws include the Anti-Kickback Statue, the FCA, the Stark Law and state corporate practice of medicine statutes. Governmental and other authorities periodically inspect our skilled nursing facilities, assisted/senior living facilities and outpatient rehabilitation agencies to verify that we continue to comply with the regulations and standards. We must pass these inspections to remain licensed under state laws, to comply with our Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements, and, in some instances, to continue our participation in the Veterans Administration program. We can only participate in these third-party payment programs if inspections by regulatory authorities reveal that our facilities and agencies are in substantial compliance with applicable requirements. In the ordinary course of business, we may receive notices from federal or state regulatory authorities alleging deficiencies in certain regulatory practices. These statements of deficiency may require us to take corrective action to regain and maintain compliance. In some cases, federal or state regulators may impose other remedies including imposition of CMPs, temporary payment bans, loss of certification as a provider in the Medicare and/or Medicaid program and revocation of a state operating license. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject from time to time to inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies related to compliance with participation and payment rules under government payment programs. These inquiries may originate from the HHS Office of the Inspector General (OIG) audits, state Medicaid agencies, local and state ombudsman offices and CMS Recovery Audit Contractors, among other agencies. We believe that the regulatory environment surrounding the healthcare industry subjects providers to intense scrutiny. Federal and state governments continue to impose citations for regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory penalties, including demands for refund of overpayments, expanded CMPs that extend over long periods of time and date back to incidents long before surveyor visits, Medicare and Medicaid payment bans and terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We vigorously contest these matters where appropriate; however, there are significant legal and other expenses involved that consume our financial and personnel resources. Expansion of enforcement activity could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Quality of Care Measures In 2008, CMS created the Five-Star Quality Rating System (the Star Ratings) to help consumers, families and caregivers compare skilled nursing facilities and choose providers more easily. Skilled nursing facilities are rated from one to five stars based on three components: survey results over the past three years, quality measure calculations and staffing data. Each of the components receives star rankings as well. Skilled nursing facilities with five stars are considered to have much above average quality and skilled nursing facilities with one star are considered to have quality much below average. Families are increasingly consulting the Star Ratings prior to placing a family member in a skilled nursing facility and hospital referral partners are increasingly narrowing their panels of skilled nursing facilities to include only those with at least a three-star overall rating. However, CMS has acknowledged that there are limitations in using the Star Ratings to make inferences about nursing center quality, including (i) variations by state in survey processes, (ii) the use of a single two-week snapshot for the staffing rating and (iii) quality measures do not represent all aspects of care that could be important to consumers. The foundation of the Star Rating is the annual survey. Survey results carry forward three years with the most recent survey weighted 50% while older surveys are weighted 33% and 17%, respectively. 16 Table of Contents The table below summarizes the Star Rating given to our skilled nursing facilities: Year ended December 31, 2016 Number of skilled nursing facilities 473 Number of 3, 4 and 5-Star skilled nursing facilities 243 Percentage of 3, 4 and 5-Star skilled nursing facilities 51 % We strive to provide quality care and to achieve higher Star Ratings. Our performance on Star Ratings has been negatively impacted by: (i) CMS changing its Star Rating scoring methodology in 2015 and introduction of new quality measures in 2016 resulting in many skilled nursing facilities (for both us and third parties) experiencing lower quality measure ratings, resulting in a decrease in Star Ratings; and (ii) the acquisition of Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc., whose skilled nursing facilities generally had poorer than average Star Ratings. Civil and Criminal Fraud and Abuse Laws and Enforcement Federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws regulate both the provision of services to government program beneficiaries and the methods and requirements for submitting claims for services rendered to such beneficiaries. Under these laws, individuals and organizations can be penalized for submitting claims for services that are not provided; that have been inadequately provided; billed in an incorrect manner, intentionally or accidentally, or other than as actually provided; not medically necessary; provided by an improper person; accompanied by an illegal inducement to utilize or refrain from utilizing a service or product; or billed or coded in a manner that does not otherwise comply with applicable governmental requirements. Penalties also may be imposed for violation of anti-kickback and patient referral laws. Federal and state governments have a range of criminal, civil and administrative sanctions available to penalize and remediate healthcare fraud and abuse, including exclusion of the provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, imposition of civil and criminal fines, suspension of payments and, in the case of individuals, imprisonment. We have internal policies and procedures, including a program designed to facilitate compliance with and to reduce exposure for violations of these and other laws and regulations. However, because enforcement efforts presently are widespread within the industry and may vary from region to region, there can be no assurance that our internal policies and procedures will significantly reduce or eliminate exposure to civil or criminal sanctions or adverse administrative determinations. Anti-Kickback Statute Federal law commonly referred to as the Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of anything of value, directly or indirectly, in return for the referral of patients or arranging for the referral of patients, or in return for the recommendation, arrangement, purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by a federal healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid. Violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute is a felony, and sanctions for each violation include imprisonment of up to five years, significant criminal fines, significant CMPs plus three times the amount claimed or three times the remuneration offered, and exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Additionally, violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim under the FCA. Many states have adopted similar prohibitions against kickbacks and other practices that are intended to induce referrals applicable to all payors. We are required under the Medicare requirements for participation and some state licensing laws to contract with numerous healthcare providers and practitioners, including physicians, hospitals and hospice agencies and to arrange for these individuals or entities to provide services to our residents and patients. In addition, we have contracts with other suppliers, including pharmacies, laboratories, x-ray companies, ambulance services and medical equipment companies. Some of these individuals or entities may refer, or be in a position to refer, patients to us, and we may refer, or be in a position to refer, patients to these individuals or entities. Certain safe harbor provisions have been created so that although a relationship could potentially implicate the federal anti-kickback statute, it would not be treated as an offense under the statute. We attempt to structure these arrangements in a manner that falls within one of the safe harbors. Some of these arrangements may not ultimately satisfy the applicable safe harbor requirements, but failure to meet the safe harbor does not necessarily mean an arrangement is illegal. 17 Table of Contents We believe that our arrangements with providers, practitioners and suppliers are in compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. However, if any of our arrangements with third parties were to be challenged and found to be in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute, we could be required to repay any amounts we received, subject to criminal penalties, and we could be excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Stark Law Federal law commonly known as the Stark Law prohibits a physician from making referrals for particular healthcare services to entities with which the physician (or an immediate family member of the physician) has a financial relationship if the services are payable by Medicare or Medicaid. If an arrangement is covered by the Stark Law, the requirements of a Stark Law exception must be met for the physician to be able to make referrals to the entity for designated health services and for the entity to be able to bill for these services. Although the term designated health services does not include long-term care services, some of the services provided at our skilled nursing facilities and other related business units are classified as designated health services, including PT, SLP and OT services. The term financial relationship is defined very broadly to include most types of ownership or compensation relationships. The Stark Law also prohibits the entity receiving the referral from seeking payment from the patient or the Medicare and Medicaid programs for services rendered pursuant to a prohibited referral. The Stark Law contains exceptions for certain physician ownership or investment interests in, and certain physician compensation arrangements with, certain entities. If a compensation arrangement or investment relationship between a physician, or immediate family member, and an entity satisfies the applicable requirements for a Stark Law exception, the Stark Law will not prohibit the physician from referring patients to the entity for designated health services. The exceptions for compensation arrangements cover employment relationships, personal services contracts and space and equipment leases, among others. If an entity violates the Stark Law, it could be subject to significant civil penalties. The entity also may be excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. If the Stark Law were found to apply to our relationships with referring physicians and no exception under the Stark Law were available, we would be required to restructure these relationships or refuse to accept referrals for designated health services from these physicians. If we were found to have submitted claims to Medicare or Medicaid for services provided pursuant to a referral prohibited by the Stark Law, we would be required to repay any amounts we received from Medicare or Medicaid for those services and could be subject to CMPs. Further, we could be excluded from participating in Medicare and Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. If we were required to repay any amounts to Medicare or Medicaid, subjected to fines, or excluded from the Medicare and Medicaid Programs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would be harmed significantly. As directed by PPACA, in 2010 CMS released a self-referral disclosure protocol (SRDP) for potential or actual violations of the Stark Law. Under SRDP, CMS states that it may, but is not required to, reduce the amounts due and owing for a Stark Law violation, and will consider the following factors in deciding whether to grant a reduction: (1) the nature and extent of the improper or illegal practice; (2) the timeliness of the self-disclosure; (3) the cooperation in providing additional information related to the disclosure; (4) the litigation risk associated with the matter disclosed; and (5) the financial position of the disclosing party. Many states have physician relationship and referral statutes that are similar to the Stark Law. These laws generally apply regardless of the payor. We believe that our operations are structured to comply with the Stark Law and applicable state laws with respect to physician relationships and referrals. However, any finding that we are not in compliance with these laws could require us to change our operations or could subject us to penalties. This, in turn, could significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. False Claims Act Federal and state laws prohibit the submission of false claims and other acts that are considered fraudulent, wasteful or abusive. Under the federal FCA, actions against a provider can be initiated by the federal government or by a private party on behalf of the federal government. These private parties, who are often referred to as qui tam relators or relators, are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government. Both direct enforcement activity by the government and qui tam relator actions have increased significantly in recent years. The use of private enforcement 18 Table of Contents actions against healthcare providers has increased dramatically, in part because the relators are entitled to share in a portion of any settlement or judgment. A FCA violation occurs when a provider knowingly submits a claim for items or services not provided. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 expanded the scope of the FCA by creating liability for knowingly retaining an overpayment received from the government and broadening protections for whistleblowers. The submission of false claims or the failure to timely repay overpayments may lead to the imposition of significant CMPs, significant criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in state and federally-funded healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Allegations of poor quality of care can also lead to FCA actions under a theory of worthless services. Worthless services cases allege that although care was provided it was so deficient that it was tantamount to no service at all. In recent years, prosecutors and relators are increasingly bringing FCA claims based on the implied certification theory as an expansion of the scope of the FCA. Under the implied certification theory, a violation of the FCA occurs when a providers request for payment implies a certification of compliance with the applicable statutes, regulations or contract provisions that are preconditions to payment. This development has increased the risk that a healthcare company will have to defend a false claims action, pay fines and treble damages or settlement amounts or be excluded from the federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of the FCA. Many states have enacted similar laws providing for imposition of civil and criminal penalties for the filing of fraudulent claims. Because we submit thousands of claims to Medicare each year, and there is a relatively long statute of limitations under the FCA, there is a risk that intentional, or even negligent or recklessly submitted claims that prove to be incorrect, or even billing errors, cost reporting errors or lapses in statutory or regulatory compliance with regard to the provision of healthcare services (including, without limitation the Anti-Kickback Statue and the federal self-referral law discussed above), could result in significant civil or criminal penalties against us. For example, see Note 21, " Commitment and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings ," for information regarding matters in which the government is pursuing, or has expressed an intent to pursue, legal remedies against us under the FCA and similar state laws. We believe that our operations comply with the FCA and similar state laws. However, if our claims practices were challenged and found to violate the applicable laws, any finding that we are not in compliance with these laws could require us to change our operations or could subject us to penalties or make us ineligible to participate in certain government funded healthcare programs, which could in turn significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Patient Privacy and Security Laws There are numerous legislative and regulatory requirements at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy and security of health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) contains provisions that require us to adopt and maintain business procedures designed to protect the privacy, security and integrity of patients' individual health information. States also have laws that apply to the privacy of healthcare information. We must comply with these state privacy laws to the extent that they are more protective of healthcare information or provide additional protections not afforded by HIPAA. HIPAA's security standards were designed to protect specified information against reasonably anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of the information and to protect the information against unauthorized use or disclosure. These standards have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on the healthcare industry because they impose extensive requirements and restrictions on the use and disclosure of identifiable patient information. In addition, HIPAA established uniform standards governing the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protecting the privacy and security of certain individually identifiable health information. The Health Information Technology for Clinical Health Act of 2009 (HITECH Act) expanded the requirements and noncompliance penalties under HIPAA and require correspondingly intensive compliance efforts by companies such as ours, including self-disclosures of breaches of unsecured health information to affected patients, federal officials, and, in some cases, the media. These laws make unauthorized employee access illegal and subject to self-disclosure and penalties. Other states may adopt similar or more extensive breach notice and privacy requirements. Compliance with these regulations could require us to make significant investments of money and other resources. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable state and federal regulations relating to privacy and security of patient 19 Table of Contents information. However, if we fail to comply with the applicable regulations, we could be subject to significant penalties and other adverse consequences. Certificates of Need (CON) and Other Regulatory Matters There are CON programs in 34 states and the District of Columbia. We are required in these jurisdictions to obtain CON approval or exemption prior to certain changes including without limitation, change in ownership, capital expenditures over certain limits, development of a new facility or expansion of services of an existing facility or service in order to control overdevelopment of healthcare projects. Certain states that do not have CON programs may have other laws or regulations that limit or restrict the development or expansion of healthcare projects. In the event we choose to develop or expand the operations of our subsidiaries, the development or expansion could be affected adversely by the inability to obtain the necessary approvals, changes in the standards applicable to such approvals or possible delays and expenses associated with obtaining such approvals. Failure to comply with state requirements with CON or other regulations that address development or expansion of services could adversely affect the progress or completion of a healthcare project. State Operating License Requirements We are required to obtain state licenses, certificates or permits to operate each of our nursing facilities. Many states require similar licenses or certificates for assisted/senior living facilities, and some states require a license to operate outpatient agencies. Medicare requires compliance with applicable state laws as a requirement of participation. In addition, healthcare professionals and practitioners are required to be licensed in most states. We take measures to ensure that our healthcare professionals are properly licensed and participate in required continuing education programs. We believe that our operating companies and personnel that provide these services have all required licenses or certifications necessary for our current operations. Failure to obtain, maintain or renew a required license, permit or certification could adversely affect our ability to bill for services or operate in the ordinary course. Competition Our skilled nursing facilities compete primarily on a local and regional basis with other skilled nursing facilities and with assisted/senior living facilities, from national and regional chains to smaller providers owning as few as a single facility. Competitors include other for-profit providers as well as non-profits, religiously-affiliated facilities, and government-owned facilities. We also compete under certain circumstances with inpatient rehabilitation facilities and long-term acute care hospitals. Our ability to compete successfully varies from location to location and depends on a number of factors, including the number of competing facilities in the local market and the types of services available at those facilities, our local reputation for quality care of patients, the commitment and expertise of our caregivers, our local service offerings and treatment programs, the cost of care in each locality, and the physical appearance, location, age and condition of our facilities. We seek to compete effectively in each market by establishing a reputation within the local community for quality of care, attractive and comfortable facilities, and providing specialized healthcare with an emphasized focus on high-acuity patients. Programs targeting high-acuity patients, including our PowerBack Rehabilitation facilities, generally have a higher staffing level per patient than our other inpatient facilities and compete more directly with IRFs and LTAC hospitals, in addition to other skilled nursing facilities. We believe that the average cost to a third-party payor for the treatment of our typical high-acuity patient is lower if that patient is treated in one of our skilled nursing facilities than if that same patient were to be treated in an IRF or LTAC hospital. Our other services, such as assisted/senior living facilities and rehabilitation therapy provided to third-party facilities, also compete with local, regional, and national companies. The primary competitive factors in these businesses are similar to those for our skilled nursing facilities and include reputation, cost to provide the services, quality of clinical services, responsiveness to patient/resident needs, location and the ability to provide support in other areas such as information management and patient recordkeeping. Increased competition could limit our ability to attract and retain patients, attract and retain employees or to expand our business. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, may have greater brand recognition and may be more established in their respective communities than we are. Competing companies may also offer newer facilities or different programs or services than we do and may as a result be more attractive to our current patients, to potential patients and to referral sources. 20 Table of Contents Employees and Labor Relations As of December 31, 2016, we employed an aggregate of approximately 82,000 active employees as follows: 56,000 in our inpatient services segment, 18,200 (primarily therapists) in our rehabilitation therapy segment, and 7,800 in our all other services segment, which includes our administrative services subsidiary. Our most significant operating cost is labor, which accounted for approximately 69% of our operating expenses from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2016. We seek to manage our labor costs by improving staffing retention, maintaining competitive labor rates, and reducing reliance on overtime compensation and temporary staffing services. As of December 31, 2016, we had 102 collective bargaining agreements with unions covering approximately 8,800 active employees at our skilled nursing facilities. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Risk Management We have developed a risk management program intended to control our insurance and professional liability costs. As part of this program, we have implemented an arbitration agreement program at each of our nursing facilities under which, upon admission and to the extent permitted under existing regulations, patients are requested (but not required) to execute an agreement that requires disputes to be arbitrated instead of litigated in court. We believe that this program accelerates resolution of disputes and reduces our liability exposure and related costs. We have also established an incident reporting process that involves the provision of tracking and trending data to our facility administrators. Insurance We maintain a variety of types of insurance, including general and professional liability, workers' compensation, fiduciary liability, property, cyber/privacy liability, directors' and officers' liability, crime, boiler and machinery, automobile, employment practices liability and earthquake and flood. We believe that our insurance programs are adequate and where there has been a direct transfer of risk to the insurance carrier our risk is limited to the cost of the premium. We self-insure a significant portion of our potential liabilities for several risks, including certain types of general and professional liability, workers compensation and health benefits. To the extent our insurance coverage is insufficient or unavailable to cover losses that would otherwise be insurable, or to the extent that our estimates of anticipated liabilities that we self-insure are significantly lower than the actual self-insured liabilities that we incur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For additional information regarding our insurance programs, see Note 21 , Commitments and Contingencies Loss Reserves for Certain Self-Insured Programs, in the financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Environmental Matters We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. As a healthcare provider, we face regulatory requirements in areas of air and water quality control, medical and low-level radioactive waste management and disposal, asbestos management, response to mold and lead-based paint in our facilities and employee safety. In our role as owner of subsidiaries which operate our facilities (including our leased facilities), we also may be required to investigate and remediate hazardous substances that are located on the property, including any such substances that may have migrated off, or discharged or transported from the property. Part of our operations involves the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and/or discharge of hazardous, infectious, toxic, flammable and other hazardous materials, wastes, pollutants or contaminants. These activities may result in damage to individuals, property or the environment; may interrupt operations and/or increase costs; may result in legal liability, damages, injunctions or fines; may result in investigations, administrative proceedings, penalties or other governmental agency actions; and may not be covered by insurance. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety requirements. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur environmental liabilities in the future, and such liabilities may result in material adverse consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Customers No individual customer or client accounts for a significant portion of our revenue. We do not expect that the loss of a single customer or client would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are filed with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by us with the SEC are available free of charge at the investor relations section of our website at www.genesishcc.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Copies are also available, without charge, by writing to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. Investor Relations, 101 East State Street, Kennett Square, PA 19348. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The inclusion of our website address in this annual report does not include or incorporate by reference the information on our website into this annual report. Company History Genesis Healthcare, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in October 2005 under the name of SHG Holding Solutions, Inc., and it subsequently changed its name to Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. (Skilled). On February 2, 2015, Skilled combined its businesses and operations (the Combination) with FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (FC-GEN), pursuant to a Purchase and Contribution Agreement dated August 18, 2014. In connection with the Combination, Skilled changed its name to Genesis Healthcare, Inc. In 2007, private equity funds managed by affiliates of Formation Capital, LLC and certain other investors acquired all the outstanding shares of Genesis HealthCare Corporation (GHC). In 2011, (i) GHC transferred to FC-GEN its business of operating and managing senior housing and care facilities, its joint venture entities and its other ancillary businesses, (ii) all the outstanding shares of GHC were sold to Welltower Inc. (Welltower) for purposes of transferring the ownership of GHCs senior housing facilities to Welltower and (iii) FC-GEN entered into a master lease agreement with Welltower pursuant to which FC-GEN leased back the senior housing facilities that it had transferred ownership to Welltower. Effective December 1, 2012, FC-GEN completed the acquisition of Sun Healthcare Group, Inc. (the Sun Merger) and its subsidiaries. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this report to the "Company" include the predecessors of Genesis Healthcare, Inc., including GHC, prior to 2011. Item 1A. Risk Factor s In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity in future periods. We operate in a rapidly changing and highly regulated environment that involves a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are highlighted below and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. The following risk factors are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, natural disasters, general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may in the future materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and stock price. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Reimbursement and Regulation of our Business Reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates, or changes in the rules governing the Medicare program could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. We receive a significant portion of our revenue from Medicare, which accounted for 24% of our consolidated revenue during 2016 and 26% in 2015. In addition, many private payors base their reimbursement rates on the published Medicare rates or, in the case of our rehabilitation therapy services customers, are themselves reimbursed by Medicare for the services we provide. Accordingly, if Medicare reimbursement rates are reduced or fail to increase as quickly as our costs, or if there are changes in the rules governing the Medicare program that are disadvantageous to our business or industry, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. The Medicare program and its reimbursement rates and rules are subject to frequent change. These include statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments (including retroactive adjustments), administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates at which Medicare reimburses us for our services. Budget pressures often lead the federal government to reduce or place limits on reimbursement rates under Medicare. Implementation of these and other types of measures has in the past and could in the future result in substantial reductions in our revenue and operating margins. For example, due to the federal sequestration, an automatic 2% reduction in Medicare spending took effect beginning in April 2013. Subsequent actions by Congress extended sequestration through 2023. In addition, CMS often changes the rules governing the Medicare program, including those governing reimbursement. Changes that could adversely affect our business include: administrative or legislative changes to base rates or the bases of payment; limits on the services or types of providers for which Medicare will provide reimbursement; changes in methodology for patient assessment and/or determination of payment levels; the reduction or elimination of annual rate increases; or an increase in co-payments or deductibles payable by beneficiaries. Among the important changes in statute that are being implemented by CMS include provisions of the IMPACT Act. This law imposes a stringent timeline for implementing benchmark quality measures and data metrics across post-acute care providers (Long Stay Hospitals, IRFs, Skilled Nursing Facilities and Home Health Agencies). The enactment also mandates specific actions to design a unified payment methodology for post-acute providers. CMS is in the process of promulgating regulations to implement provisions of this enactment. Depending on the final details, the costs of implementation could be significant. The failure to meet implementation requirements could expose providers to fines and payment reductions. Reductions in reimbursement rates or the scope of services being reimbursed could have a material, adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations or even result in reimbursement rates that are insufficient to cover our operating costs. Additionally, any delay or default by the federal or state governments in making Medicare reimbursement payments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reductions in Medicaid reimbursement rates or changes in the rules governing the Medicaid program could have a material, adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of reimbursement for long-term care services comes from Medicaid, a joint Federal-State program purchasing healthcare services for the low income and indigent, and individuals whose medical expenses are such that they are deemed medically needed. Under broad federal criteria, states establish rules for eligibility, services and payment. Medicaid is our largest source of revenue, accounting for 55% of our consolidated revenue during 2016 and 53% in 2015. Medicaid is a state-administered program financed by both state funds and matching federal funds. 23 Table of Contents Medicaid spending has increased rapidly in recent years, becoming a significant component of state budgets. This, combined with slower state revenue growth, has led both the federal government and many states to institute measures aimed at controlling the growth of Medicaid spending, and in some instances reducing aggregate Medicaid spending. We expect these state and federal efforts to continue for the foreseeable future. The Medicaid program and its reimbursement rates and rules are subject to frequent change at both the federal and state-by-state level. These include statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments (including retroactive adjustments), administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates at which our services are reimbursed by state Medicaid plans. To generate funds to pay for the increasing costs of the Medicaid program, many states utilize financial arrangements commonly referred to as provider taxes. Under provider tax arrangements, states collect taxes from healthcare providers and then use the revenue to pay the providers as a Medicaid expenditure, which allows the states to then claim additional federal matching funds on the additional reimbursements. Current federal law provides for a cap on the maximum allowable provider tax as a percentage of the provider's total revenue. There can be no assurance that federal law will continue to provide matching federal funds on state Medicaid expenditures funded through provider taxes, or that the current caps on provider taxes will not be reduced. Any discontinuance or reduction in federal matching of provider tax-related Medicaid expenditures could have a significant and adverse effect on states' Medicaid expenditures, and as a result could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Reforms to the U.S. healthcare system have imposed new requirements upon us. PPACA and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the Reconciliation Act) included sweeping changes to how healthcare is paid for and furnished in the U.S. It has imposed new obligations on skilled nursing facilities, requiring them to disclose information regarding ownership, expenditures and certain other information. Moreover, the law requires skilled nursing facilities to electronically submit verifiable data on direct care staffing. CMS rules implementing these reporting requirements became effective on July 1, 2016. To address potential fraud and abuse in federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, PPACA includes provider screening and enhanced oversight periods for new providers and suppliers, as well as enhanced penalties for submitting false claims. It also provides funding for enhanced anti-fraud activities. PPACA imposes an enrollment moratoria in elevated risk areas by requiring providers and suppliers to establish compliance programs. PPACA also provides the federal government with expanded authority to suspend payment if a provider is investigated for allegations or issues of fraud. PPACA provides that Medicare and Medicaid payments may be suspended pending a credible investigation of fraud, unless the Secretary of HHS determines that good cause exists not to suspend payments. To the extent the Secretary applies this suspension of payments provision to one of our affiliated facilities for allegations of fraud, such a suspension could adversely affect our results of operations. PPACA gave authority to the HHS to establish, test and evaluate alternative payment methodologies for Medicare services. Various payment and services models have been developed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Innovations. Current models provide incentives for providers to coordinate patient care across the continuum and to be jointly accountable for an entire episode of care centered around a hospitalization. PPACA attempts to improve the healthcare delivery system through incentives to enhance quality, improve beneficiary outcomes and increase value of care. One of these key delivery system reforms is the encouragement of ACOs, which will facilitate coordination and cooperation among providers to improve the quality of care for Medicare beneficiaries and reduce unnecessary costs. Participating ACOs that meet specified quality performance standards will be eligible to receive a share of any savings if the actual per capita expenditures of their assigned Medicare beneficiaries are a sufficient percentage below their specified benchmark amount. Quality performance standards will include measures in such categories as clinical processes and outcomes of care, patient experience and utilization of services. Initiatives by managed care payors, conveners and referring acute care hospital systems to reduce lengths of stay and avoidable hospital readmissions and to divert referrals to home health or other community-based care settings may have an adverse impact on our census and length of stays. It is not currently possible to project if the impact of these initiatives will be temporary or permanent. 24 Table of Contents In addition, PPACA required HHS to develop a plan to implement a value-based purchasing program for Medicare payments to skilled nursing facilities. HHS delivered a report to Congress outlining its plans for implementing this value-based purchasing program. Based in part on the findings of the demonstration project, Congress as part of PAMA enacted legislation directing CMS to implement a value-based purchasing requirement for skilled nursing facilities to be effective in 2018. Under this legislation, HHS was required to develop by October 1, 2016 measures and performance standards regarding preventable hospital readmissions from skilled nursing facilities. Beginning October 1, 2018, HHS will withhold 2% of Medicare payments from all skilled nursing facilities and distribute this pool of payment to skilled nursing facilities as incentive payments for preventing readmissions to hospitals. Measurement requirements were published in final fiscal year 2016 skilled nursing facility PPS rules released in late August 2015. In addition to the requirements that are being implemented, legislation is pending in Congress to broaden the value-based purchasing requirements featuring a payment withholding designed to fund the program across all post-acute services. We are unable to determine the degree to which our participation in innovative pay for value programs with other providers of service will affect our financial results versus traditional business models for the long-term care industry. The provisions of PPACA discussed above are examples of some federal health reform provisions that we believe may have a material impact on the long-term care industry and on our business. However, the foregoing discussion is not intended to constitute, nor does it constitute, an exhaustive review and discussion of PPACA. It is possible that these and other provisions of PPACA may be interpreted, clarified, or applied to our affiliated facilities or operating subsidiaries in a way that could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations. We currently cannot predict what effect these changes will have on our business, including the demand for our services or the amount of reimbursement available for those services. However, it is possible these new laws may reduce reimbursement and adversely affect our business. PPACA and its implementation could impact our business. PPACA could result in sweeping changes to the existing U.S. system for the delivery and financing of healthcare. As an employer, we must abide by the numerous reporting requirements imposed by the law and regulations implementing PPACA. These provisions could impact our compensation costs and force changes in how the company supports health benefits for its employees. The details for implementation of many of the requirements under PPACA will depend on the promulgation of regulations by a number of federal government agencies, including the HHS. It is impossible to predict the outcome of these changes, what many of the final requirements of PPACA will be, and the net effect of those requirements on us. As such, we cannot fully predict the impact of PPACA on our business, operations or financial performance. 25 Table of Contents Our business may be materially impacted if certain aspects of PPACA are amended, repealed, or successfully challenged. A number of lawsuits have been filed challenging various aspects of PPACA and related regulations. In addition, the efficacy of PPACA is the subject of much debate among members of Congress and the public. The recent presidential and congressional elections in the United States could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our business and the health care industry. In the event that legal challenges are successful or PPACA is repealed or materially amended, particularly any elements of PPACA that are beneficial to our business or that cause changes in the health insurance industry, including reimbursement and coverage by private, Medicare or Medicaid payers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, specific proposals discussed during and after the election, including a repeal or material amendment of PPACA, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, even if PPACA is not amended or repealed, the President and the executive branch of the federal government have a significant influence on the implementation of the provisions of PPACA, and the new administration could make changes impacting the implementation and enforcement of PPACA, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are slow or unable to adapt to any such changes, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. PPACA significantly expanded Medicaid and it provided states incentives for broadening coverage beyond the traditional Medicaid program assisting eligible aged, blind and disabled individuals. Major Medicaid policy revisions under consideration could potentially alter fundamental structure of the Medicaid program; such revisions could be significantly challenging with the potential of undermining funding adequacy and essential coverage requirements. Revenue we receive from Medicare and Medicaid is subject to potential retroactive reduction. Payments we receive from Medicare and Medicaid can be retroactively adjusted after examination during the claims settlement process or as a result of post-payment audits. Payors may disallow our requests for reimbursement, or recoup amounts previously reimbursed, based on determinations by the payors or their third-party audit contractors that certain costs are not reimbursable because either adequate or additional documentation was not provided or because certain services were not covered or deemed to not be medically necessary. Significant adjustments, recoupments or repayments of our Medicare or Medicaid revenue, and the costs associated with complying with investigative audits by regulatory and governmental authorities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, from time to time we become aware, either based on information provided by third parties and/or the results of internal audits, of payments from payor sources that were either wholly or partially in excess of the amount that we should have been paid for the service provided. Overpayments may result from a variety of factors, including insufficient documentation supporting the services rendered or medical necessity of the services, other failures to document the satisfaction of the necessary requirements for payment, or in some cases for providing services that are deemed to be worthless. We are required by law in most instances to refund the full amount of the overpayment after becoming aware of it, and failure to do so within requisite time limits imposed by the law could lead to significant fines and penalties being imposed on us. Furthermore, our initial billing of and payments for services that are unsupported by the requisite documentation and satisfaction of any other requirements for payment, regardless of our awareness of the failure at the time of the billing or payment, could expose us to significant fines and penalties, including pursuant to the FCA and the Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law (FCMPL). Violations of the FCA could lead to any combination of a variety of criminal, civil and administrative fines and penalties. The FCA provides for civil fines ranging from $5,500 to $11,000 per claim plus treble damages. The FCMPL similarly provides for CMPs of up to $10,000 per claim plus up to treble damages. We and/or certain of our operating companies could also be subject to exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs in some circumstances as well, in addition to any monetary or other fines, penalties or sanctions that we may incur under applicable federal and/or state law. Our repayment of any such amounts, as well as any fines, penalties or other sanctions that we may incur, could be significant and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. From time to time we are also involved in various external governmental investigations, audits and reviews. Reviews, audits and investigations of this sort can lead to government actions, which can result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct 26 Table of Contents business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs. For example, the OIG conducts a variety of routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews across our industry. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, becoming subject to these governmental investigations, audits and reviews can also require us to incur significant legal and document production expenses as we cooperate with the government authorities, regardless of whether the particular investigation, audit or review leads to the identification of underlying issues. For example, as discussed under Agreement in Principle on Financial Terms of a Settlement in Note 21 , Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings , in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report, in July 2016, we and the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ) reached an agreement in principle on the financial terms of a settlement regarding four matters arising out of the activities of Skilled or Sun Healthcare prior to their operations becoming part of our operations (collectively, the Successor Matters). The four matters are: the Creekside Hospice Litigation, the Therapy Matters Investigation, the Staffing Matters Investigation and the SunDance Part B Therapy Matter. We have agreed to the settlement in principle in order to resolve the allegations underlying the Successor Matters and to avoid the uncertainty and expense of litigation. Based on the agreement in principle and in anticipation of the execution of final agreements and payment of a settlement amount of $52.7 million (the Settlement Amount). We expect to remit the Settlement Amount to the government over a period of five (5) years, once the agreement has been fully documented. The agreement in principle is subject to negotiation, completion and execution of appropriate implementing agreements, including a settlement agreement or agreements, and the final approval of the respective parties. There can be no assurance that we will enter into a final settlement agreement with the DOJ. Recently enacted changes in Medicare reimbursements for physician and non-physician services could impact reimbursement for medical professionals. Moreover, payment caps that limit the amounts that can be paid for outpatient therapy services rendered to any Medicare beneficiary may negatively affect our results of operations. The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act revised the payment system for physician and non-physician services. Section 1 of that law, the sustainable growth rate repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization will impact payment provisions for medical professional services. That enactment also extended for two years provisions that permit an exceptions process from therapy caps imposed on Medicare Part B outpatient therapy. There is a combined cap for PT and SLP and a separate cap for OT services that apply subject to certain exceptions. The discontinuation or change in the current cap exception process or future modifications of the Medicare Part B cap structure could have an adverse effect on the revenue that we generate through our rehabilitation therapy business. This could in turn have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Section 202 of that enactment extended the current therapy cap exceptions process through December 31, 2017 and altered provisions for MMR. The MMR requirement generally provides that, on a per beneficiary basis and subject to limited exceptions, services above $3,700 for PT and SLP services combined and/or $3,700 for OT services are subject to MMR (typically on a pre-payment basis) by the applicable Medicare contractors. In addition to extending the exceptions process, Section 202 altered the procedures CMS must follow in determining cases to review by MMR. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and government regulations. If we are not operating in compliance with these laws and regulations or if these laws and regulations change, we could be required to make significant expenditures or change our operations in order to bring our facilities and operations into compliance. We, along with other companies in the healthcare industry, are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: licensure and certification; adequacy and quality of healthcare services; qualifications of healthcare and support personnel; quality of medical equipment; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and claims processing; 27 Table of Contents relationships with physicians and other referral sources and recipients; constraints on protective contractual provisions with patients and third-party payors; operating policies and procedures; addition of facilities and services; and billing for services. Many of these laws and regulations are expansive, and we do not always have the benefit of significant guidance or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. In addition, many of these laws and regulations evolve to include additional obligations and restrictions, sometimes with retroactive effect. Certain other regulatory developments, such as revisions in the building code requirements for assisted/senior living and skilled nursing facilities, mandatory increases in scope and quality of care to be offered to residents, revisions in licensing and certification standards, mandatory staffing levels, regulations regarding conditions for payment and regulations restricting those we can hire could also have a material adverse effect on us. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. In addition, federal and state government agencies have increased and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare companies, including skilled nursing facilities. This includes investigations of: fraud and abuse; quality of care; financial relationships with referral sources; and the medical necessity of services provided. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject regularly to inquiries, investigations, and audits by federal and state agencies that oversee applicable healthcare program participation and payment regulations. Audits may include enhanced medical necessity reviews pursuant to the Medicare, Medicaid, and the SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (the SCHIP Extension Act) and audits under the CMS Recovery Audit Contractor (RAC) program We believe that the regulatory environment surrounding most segments of the healthcare industry remains intense. Federal and state governments continue to impose intensive enforcement policies resulting in a significant number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies, and other regulatory penalties, including demands for refund of overpayments, terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions, and CMPs. These enforcement policies, along with the costs incurred to respond to and defend reviews, audits, and investigations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. We vigorously contest such penalties where appropriate; however, these cases can involve significant legal and other expenses and consume our resources. Section 1877 of the Social Security Act, commonly known as the Stark Law, provides that a physician may not refer a Medicare or Medicaid patient for a designated health service to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship unless the financial arrangement meets an exception under the Stark Law or its regulations. Designated health services include inpatient and outpatient hospital services, physical, occupational, and speech therapy, durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics and supplies, diagnostic imaging, enteral and parenteral feeding and supplies, home health services, and clinical laboratory services. Under the Stark Law, a financial relationship is defined as an ownership or investment interest or a compensation arrangement. If such a financial relationship exists and does not meet a Stark Law exception, the entity is prohibited from submitting or claiming payment under the Medicare or Medicaid programs or from collecting from the patient or other payor. Many of the compensation arrangements exceptions permit referrals if, among other things, the arrangement is set forth in a written agreement signed by the parties, the compensation to be paid is set in advance, is consistent with fair market 28 Table of Contents value and is not determined in a manner that takes into account the volume or value of any referrals or other business generated between the parties. Exceptions may have other requirements. Any funds collected for an item or service resulting from a referral that violates the Stark Law must be repaid to Medicare or Medicaid, any other third-party payor, and the patient. In addition, a CMP of up to $15,000 for each service may be imposed for presenting or causing to be presented, a claim for a service rendered in violation of the Stark Law. Many states have enacted healthcare provider referral laws that go beyond physician self-referrals or apply to a greater range of services than just the designated health services under the Stark Law. The Anti-Kickback Statute, Section 1128B of the Social Security Act (the Anti-Kickback Statute) prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce the referral of an individual, in return for recommending, or to arrange for, the referral of an individual for any item or service payable under any federal healthcare program, including Medicare or Medicaid. The OIG has issued regulations that create safe harbors for certain conduct and business relationships that are deemed protected under the Anti-Kickback Statute. In order to receive safe harbor protection, all of the requirements of a safe harbor must be met. The fact that a given business arrangement does not fall within one of these safe harbors, however, does not render the arrangement per se illegal. Business arrangements of healthcare service providers that fail to satisfy the applicable safe harbor criteria, if investigated, will be evaluated based upon all facts and circumstances and risk increased scrutiny and possible sanctions by enforcement authorities. The Anti-Kickback Statute is a criminal statute, with penalties of up to $25,000, up to five years in prison, or both. The OIG can pursue a civil claim for violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute under the CMP Statute of up to $50,000 per claim and up to three times the amount received from the government for the items or services. We believe that business practices of providers and financial relationships between providers have become subject to increased scrutiny as healthcare reform efforts continue on the federal and state levels. State Medicaid programs are required to enact an anti-kickback statute. Many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the Medicaid program, to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients regardless of the source of payment for the care. The DOJ may bring an action under the FCA, alleging that a healthcare provider has defrauded the government by submitting a claim for items or services not rendered as claimed, which may include coding errors, billing for services not provided, and submitting false or erroneous cost reports. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 expanded the scope of the FCA by, among other things, creating liability for knowingly and improperly avoiding repayment of an overpayment received from the government and broadening protections for whistleblowers. The FCA clarifies that if an item or service is provided in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute, the claim submitted for those items or services is a false claim that may be prosecuted under the FCA as a false claim. CMPs under the FCA are between $5,500 and $11,000 for each claim and up to three times of the amount claimed. Under the qui tam or whistleblower provisions of the FCA, a private individual with knowledge of fraud may bring a claim on behalf of the federal government and receive a percentage of the federal governments recovery. Due to these whistleblower incentives, lawsuits have become more frequent. In addition to the penalties described above, if we violate any of these laws, we may be excluded from participation in federal and/or state healthcare programs. These fraud and abuse laws and regulations are complex, and we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. While we do not believe we are in violation of these prohibitions, we cannot assure you that governmental officials charged with the responsibility for enforcing these prohibitions will not assert that we are violating the provisions of such laws and regulations. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, the intensity of federal and state enforcement actions or the extent and size of any potential sanctions, fines or penalties. Changes in the regulatory framework, our failure to obtain or renew required regulatory approvals or licenses or to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the suspension or revocation of our licenses or our disqualification from participation in federal and state reimbursement programs, or the imposition of other enforcement sanctions, fines or penalties could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, should we lose licenses or certifications for a number of our facilities or other businesses as a result of regulatory action, legal proceedings such as those described in Note 21 , Commitments and Contingencies-Legal Proceedings, or otherwise, we could be deemed to be in default under some of our 29 Table of Contents agreements, including agreements governing outstanding indebtedness and the report of such issues at one of our facilities could harm our reputation for quality care and lead to a reduction in our patient referrals and ultimately our revenue and operating income. Our physician services operations are subject to corporate practice of medicine laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. One line of our business that we continue to develop is physician services. Certain states have laws and regulations prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting, which generally prohibit business entities from owning or controlling medical practices or may limit the ability of clinical professionals to share professional service income with non-professional or business interests. These requirements may vary significantly from state to state. Compliance with applicable regulations may cause us to incur expenses that we have not anticipated, and if we are unable to comply with these additional legal requirements, we may incur liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face inspections, reviews, audits and investigations under federal and state government programs and contracts. These audits could have adverse findings that may negatively affect our business, including our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and reputation. As a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, we are subject to various governmental inspections, reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with these programs and applicable laws and regulations. Managed care payors may also reserve the right to conduct audits. We also periodically conduct internal audits and reviews of our regulatory compliance. An adverse inspection, review, audit or investigation could result in: refunding amounts we have been paid pursuant to the Medicare or Medicaid programs or from managed care payors; state or federal agencies imposing fines, penalties and other sanctions on us; temporary suspension of payment for new patients to the facility or agency; decertification or exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs or one or more managed care payor networks; self-disclosure of violations to applicable regulatory authorities; damage to our reputation; the revocation of a facility's or agency's license; and loss of certain rights under, or termination of, our contracts with managed care payors. We have in the past and will likely in the future be required to refund amounts we have been paid and/or pay fines and penalties, as a result of these inspections, reviews, audits and investigations. If adverse inspections, reviews, audits or investigations occur and any of the results noted above occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, the legal, document production and other costs associated with complying with these inspections, reviews, audits or investigations could be significant. Our operations are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety regulations, which could subject us to fines, penalties and increased operational costs. We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Regulatory requirements faced by healthcare providers such as us include those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, air and water quality control, occupational health and safety (such as standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics), management and disposal of low-level radioactive medical waste, biohazards and other wastes, management of explosive or combustible gases, such as oxygen, specific regulatory requirements applicable to asbestos, lead-based paints, polychlorinated biphenyls and mold, other occupational hazards associated 30 Table of Contents with our workplaces, and providing notice to employees and members of the public about our use and storage of regulated or hazardous materials and wastes. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to fines, penalties and increased operational costs. Moreover, changes in existing requirements or more stringent enforcement of them, as well as discovery of currently unknown conditions at our owned or leased facilities, could result in additional cost and potential liabilities, including liability for conducting cleanup, and there can be no guarantee that such increased expenditures would not be significant. Risks Relating to Our Operations Our substantial indebtedness, scheduled maturities and disruptions in the U.S. and global financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing or to extend or refinance debt as it matures, which could negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and the market price of our common stock. We have now and will for the foreseeable future continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2016, our total indebtedness was approximately $1,171.1 million, net of debt issuance costs. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; increase the cost or limit the availability of additional financing, if needed or desired, to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan; require us to maintain debt coverage and financial ratios at specified levels, reducing our financial flexibility; and limit our ability to make strategic acquisitions and develop new or expanded facilities. If we are unable to extend (or refinance, as applicable) any of our maturing credit facilities prior to their scheduled maturity or accelerated maturity dates, our liquidity and financial condition will be adversely impacted. In addition, even if we are able to extend or refinance our maturing debt credit facilities, the terms of the new financing may be less favorable to us than the terms of the existing financing. In recent years, the United States stock and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing (including any refinancing or extension of our existing debt) on reasonable terms, which may negatively affect our business. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to further adjust our business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital, including through the issuance of common stock. Disruptions in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on us and our business. If we are not able to obtain additional financing 31 Table of Contents on favorable terms, we also may have to delay or abandon some or all of our growth strategies, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We are subject to numerous covenants and requirements under our various credit and leasing agreements and a breach of any such covenants or requirements could, unless timely and effectively remediated, lead to default and potential cross default under such agreements. Our credit and leasing agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable loans and leases, in addition to any other indebtedness or leases cross-defaulted against such instruments. These defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur more debt. This could intensify the risks associated with this indebtedness. The terms of our credit facilities contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these exceptions could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. The more we become leveraged, the more we become exposed to the risks described above under Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. Our credit and leasing agreements may restrict our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. The terms of our credit and leasing agreements include a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; consolidate or merge; make or incur capital improvements; sell assets; and make investments, loans and acquisitions. These restrictions could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other opportunities. Floating rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase. We have significant indebtedness in multiple instruments that bear interest at variable rates. Interest rate changes could affect the amount of our interest payments, and accordingly, our future earnings and cash flows, assuming other factors are held constant. As a result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources and