Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, see Item 1A, Risk Factors. Sales and Go-To-Market Strategy Consumer We sell our consumer products and services to individuals and home offices globally through a network of distribution partners and eCommerce channels. Our products are available to customers through retailers, distributors, direct marketers, Internet-based resellers, system builders, and ISPs. We have partnerships with nine of the top 10 OEMs globally to distribute our securities suites and with six of the top 10 OEMs globally to distribute our online backup product. We broadened our presence in retail stores, with our products now carried in more than 30,000 locations worldwide. Sales in the Consumer business through our electronic distribution channel, which includes sales derived from OEMs, subscriptions, upgrades, online sales, and renewals, represented approximately 80 percent of revenue in the Consumer segment in fiscal 2010. Products are also available through our new global in-house eCommerce stores, which improves our ability to identify and capitalize on emerging customer needs and market trends as well as enhance the end-to-end customer experience. Enterprise We sell and market our products and related services to enterprise customers through our direct sales force of more than 3,500 sales representatives and through a variety of indirect sales channels, which include value-added resellers, large account resellers, and system integrators. We also sell our products in more than 40 countries through authorized distributors and OEMs who incorporate our technologies into their products, bundle our products with their offerings, or serve as authorized resellers of our products. Symantec has more than 40,000 distribution partners in its partner program worldwide. Our sales efforts are primarily targeted to senior executives and IT department personnel responsible for managing a companys IT initiatives. Marketing and Advertising Our marketing expenditures relate primarily to advertising and promotion, which includes demand generation and brand recognition of our consumer and enterprise products. Our advertising and promotion efforts include, but are not limited to, electronic and print advertising, trade shows, collateral production, and all forms of direct marketing. We also invest in cooperative marketing campaigns with distributors, resellers, retailers, OEMs, and industry partners. We invest in various retention marketing and customer loyalty programs to help drive renewals and encourage customer advocacy and referrals. We also provide focused vertical marketing programs in targeted industries and countries. 8 Table of Contents We typically offer two types of rebate programs within most countries: volume incentive rebates to channel partners and promotional rebates to distributors and end users. Distributors and resellers earn volume incentive rebates primarily based upon product sales to end users. We also offer rebates to individual users who purchase products through various resale channels. Both volume incentive rebates and end-user rebates are accrued as an offset to revenue. Research and Development Symantec embraces a global research and development (R&D) strategy to drive organic innovation across the company. Engineers throughout the company pursue advanced projects and work with our engineering centers, research labs and global services teams to translate R&D into next-generation technologies and integrate our unique set of technology assets across the portfolio. Symantec focuses on short, medium, and long-term applied research, develops new products in emerging areas, participates in government-funded research projects, and partners with universities to conduct research to support Symantecs strategy. Symantec holds more than 900 patents. Symantecs Security Technology and Response organization is a global team of security engineers, threat analysts, and researchers that provides the underlying functionality, content, and support for all Symantec enterprise, SMB and consumer security products. Symantecs security experts monitor malicious code reports collected through the Global Intelligence Network to provide insight into emerging attacks, malicious code activity, phishing, spam, and other threats. The team uses this vast intelligence to develop new technologies and approaches, such as Symantecs reputation-based security technology, to protect customers information. Research and development expenses, exclusive of in-process research and development associated with acquisitions, were $857 million, $870 million and $895 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing approximately 14%, 14% and 15% of revenue in the respective periods. We believe that technical leadership is essential to our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to research and development. Support Symantec has centralized support facilities throughout the world that provide rapid, around-the-clock response, and are staffed by technical product experts knowledgeable in the operating environments in which our products are deployed. Our technical support experts assist customers with product implementation and usage, issue resolution and countermeasures, and threat detection. Symantec provides customers various levels of enterprise support offerings. Our enterprise security support program offers annual maintenance support contracts, including content, upgrades, and technical support. Our standard technical support includes: unlimited hotline service delivered by telephone, fax, email, and over the Internet; immediate patches for severe problems; periodic software updates; and access to our technical knowledge base and frequently asked questions. Our consumer product support program provides self-help online services, phone, chat, email support, and fee-based premium support and diagnostic services to consumers worldwide. Customers that subscribe to LiveUpdate receive automatic downloads of the latest virus definitions, application bug fixes, and patches for most of our consumer products. Customers In fiscal 2010 and 2008, one distributor, Ingram Micro accounted for 10% of our total net revenue in both periods. In fiscal 2009, Ingram Micro did not account for 10% of total net revenue. Our distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consist of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with its subsidiaries, each of which cover different countries or regions. Each of these agreements is separately negotiated and is independent of any other contract (such as a master distribution agreement), and these agreements are not based on the same form of contract. In fiscal 2009 and 2008, one reseller, Digital River accounted for 10% and 11% of our total net revenues, respectively. In fiscal 2010, we launched a new, internally-developed eCommerce platform which will reduce our reliance on Digital River. 9 Table of Contents Acquisitions Our acquisitions are designed to enhance the features and functionality of our existing products and extend our product leadership in core markets. We consider time to market, synergies with existing products, and potential market share gains when evaluating the economics of acquisitions of technologies, product lines, or companies. We may acquire and/or dispose of other technologies, products and companies in the future. During fiscal 2010, we completed the following acquisitions: Company Name Company Description Date Acquired Gideon Technologies, Inc. A provider of standards-based information security compliance solutions January 22, 2010 SoftScan A provider of hosted security solutions for e-mail and web in the Nordic region. October 31, 2009 For further discussion of our acquisitions, see Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. Competition Our markets are consolidating, highly competitive, and subject to rapid changes in technology. We are focused on integrating across the product portfolio and include next-generation technology capabilities into our solution set in order to differentiate ourselves from the competition. We believe that the principal competitive factors necessary to be successful in our industry include time to market, price, reputation, financial stability, breadth of product offerings, customer support, brand recognition, and effective sales and marketing efforts. In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors, we face indirect or potential competition from retailers, application providers, operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs, who may provide various solutions and functions in their current and future products. We also compete for access to retail distribution channels and for the attention of customers at the retail level and in corporate accounts. In addition, we compete with other software companies, operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers and other OEMs to acquire technologies, products, or companies and to publish software developed by third parties. We also compete with other software companies in our effort to place our products on the computer equipment sold to consumers and enterprises by OEMs. The competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below. Consumer Some of the channels in which our consumer products are offered are highly competitive. Our competitors are intensely focused on customer acquisition, which has led such competitors to offer their technology for free, engage in aggressive marketing, or enter into competitive partnerships. Our primary competitors in the Consumer segment are McAfee, Inc. (McAfee), and Trend Micro Inc. (Trend Micro). There are also several smaller regional security companies and freeware providers that we compete against primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions. For our consumer backup offerings, our primary competitors are Mozy, Inc., owned by EMC Corporation (EMC), and Carbonite, Inc. Security and Compliance In the security and management markets, we compete against many companies that offer competing products to our solutions. Our primary competitors in the security and management market are LANDesk Software, Inc., McAfee, Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), and Trend Micro. There are also several smaller regional security companies that we compete against primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions. In the SaaS security market our primary competitors are Google Inc.s Postini Services and Microsoft. 10 Table of Contents Storage and Server Management The markets for storage and backup are intensely competitive. Our primary competitors are CA, Inc., CommVault Systems, Inc., EMC, Hewlett-Packard Company (HP), IBM Corp. (IBM), Microsoft, Sun Microsystems, Inc. (acquired by Oracle Corporation), and VMware, Inc. Services We believe that the principal competitive factors for our services segment include technical capability, customer responsiveness, and our ability to hire and retain talented and experienced services personnel. Our primary competitors in the services segment are EMC, HP, IBM, and regional specialized consulting firms. In the managed security services business, our primary competitors are IBM, and SecureWorks, Inc. Intellectual Property Protective Measures We regard some of the features of our internal operations, software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and other measures to protect our proprietary information. Our intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that enables us to gain recognition for our products, services, and technology and enhance our competitive position. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors, and corporate partners, and we enter into license agreements with respect to our software, documentation, and other proprietary information. These license agreements are generally non-transferable and have a perpetual term. We also educate our employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to protect our facilities, equipment, and networks. Trademarks, Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition to Symantec and the Symantec logo, we have used, registered, and/or applied to register other specific trademarks and service marks to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign countries and jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service mark, and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to country, and in the U.S. we generally are able to maintain our trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use. We have a number of U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, including patents and rights to patent applications acquired through strategic transactions, which relate to various aspects of our products and technology. The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically 17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or 20 years from the date of filing of the patent application resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Our products are protected under U.S. and international copyright laws and laws related to the protection of intellectual property and proprietary information. We take measures to label such products with the appropriate proprietary rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the U.S. and abroad. However, these measures may not provide sufficient protection, and our intellectual property rights may be challenged. In addition, we license some intellectual property from third parties for use in our products, and generally must rely on the third party to protect the licensed intellectual property rights. While we believe that our ability to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights is important to our success, we also believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent, trademark, license, or other intellectual property right. Seasonality As is typical for many large software companies, our business is seasonal. Software license and maintenance orders are generally higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our first and second fiscal quarters. A 11 Table of Contents significant decline in license and maintenance orders is typical in the first quarter of our fiscal year as compared to license and maintenance orders in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. In addition, we generally receive a higher volume of software license and maintenance orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders concentrated in the later part of that month. We believe that this seasonality primarily reflects customer spending patterns and budget cycles, as well as the impact of compensation incentive plans for our sales personnel. Revenue generally reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a lesser extent than orders because revenue is not recognized until an order is shipped or services are performed and other revenue recognition criteria are met, and because a significant portion of our in-period revenue is provided by the ratable recognition of our deferred revenue balance. Employees As of April 2, 2010, we employed more than 17,400 people worldwide, approximately 47 percent of whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 6,200 employees work in sales and marketing; 5,600 in research and development; 4,200 in support and services; and 1,400 in management and administration. Other Information Our Internet address is www.symantec.com. We make available free of charge on our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Other than the information expressly set forth in this annual report, the information contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this annual report. The public may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. The list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. Adverse global economic events may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition under a number of different scenarios. During challenging economic times and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or additional instances of existing products, upgrade their existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase services. Customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our products and services. An adverse macroeconomic environment could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products and services. Accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. In addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. This would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. In addition, financial institution difficulties may make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions) or financing activities. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices, or softness in corporate information technology spending, could have an even more direct, and harmful, impact on our business. 12 Table of Contents Fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, levels of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to IT systems, and other factors. While such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales. If demand for our products declines because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenues and gross margin could be adversely affected. If we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a timely basis. We have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. New product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: Managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally expected Adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers Extending the operation of our products and services to new and evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as netbooks Entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience Managing new product and service strategies, including integrating our various security and storage technologies, management solutions, customer service, and support into unified enterprise security and storage solutions Incorporating acquired products and technologies Addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship new or acquired products Developing or expanding efficient sales channels Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products, including source code licenses for certain products with deep technical integration into operating systems In addition, if we cannot adapt our business models to keep pace with industry trends, our revenue could be negatively impacted. In connection with our enterprise software offerings, we license our applications on a variety of bases, such as per server, per processor, or based on performance criteria such as per amount of data processed or stored. If enterprises continue to migrate towards solutions, such as virtualization, which allow enterprises to run multiple applications and operating systems on a single server and thereby reduce the number of servers they are required to own and operate, we may experience lower license revenues unless we are able to successfully change our enterprise licensing model or sell additional software to take into account the impact of these new solutions. If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our products that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a drop in revenue that could adversely affect our business and operating results. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful research and development effort to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, we could experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our financial results. Our traditional competitors include independent software vendors that offer software products that directly compete with our product offerings. In addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware OEMs and ISPs. Our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products with the products of our competitors or if they more actively promote our competitors products than our products. In addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or other vendors software or may limit our access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products for their platform. We face growing competition from network equipment and computer hardware manufacturers and large operating system providers. These firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection and storage and server management software that competes at some levels with our product offerings. Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our products. Security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is bundled for free. Some companies offer the lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products that are inferior to our products. Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured products such as those that we provide. The expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and financial results. Another growing industry trend is the SaaS business model, where software vendors develop and host their applications for use by customers over the Internet. This allows enterprises to obtain the benefits of commercially licensed, internally operated software without the associated complexity or high initial set-up and operational costs. Advances in the SaaS business model could enable the growth of our competitors and could affect the success of our traditional software licensing models. We are offering our own SaaS offerings, including those related to our fiscal 2009 acquisition of Message Labs, and we continue to incorporate these offerings into our licensing model. However, we may not be able to successfully incorporate our SaaS offerings into our current licensing models. Our inability to successfully develop and market new and existing SaaS product offerings could cause us to lose business to competitors. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. We also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. We sell our products to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. Sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: Direct Sales. A significant portion of our revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. Special risks associated with this sales channel include: Longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts Difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force Substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive, including regular updates to cover new and revised products Indirect Sales Channels. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. This channel involves a number of risks, including: Our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end-users Our resellers and distributors are not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors Recent consolidation of electronics retailers has increased their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers OEM Sales Channels. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through our OEM partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. Our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: Our lack of control over the shipping dates or volume of systems shipped Our OEM partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers Our OEM partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due, among other things, to an increasingly competitive relationship with certain partners Sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of OEM sales The development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our OEM partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no associated revenues The time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our products may make it more difficult to introduce those products to the market Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own products and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales In many cases we must incur up-front costs to access the OEM channel, particularly in the consumer market, and we may not recoup those up-front costs if customers do not ultimately activate and purchase our products 15 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. Some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse operating results in future periods. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions that give rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. We have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the future, other businesses, business units, and technologies. Acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: Complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies into our existing business, sales force, employee base, product lines, and technology Diversion of management time and attention from our existing business and other business opportunities Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees Assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business The addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders Increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense, such as the $7.4 billion goodwill write-down we recorded during fiscal 2009 Integrating acquired businesses has been and will continue to be a complex, time consuming, and expensive process, and can impact the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. We also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. In addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. We have not historically maintained substantial levels of indebtedness, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. In June 2006, we sold $2.1 billion in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes. As a result of the sale of the notes, we have a substantially greater amount of long-term debt than we maintained prior to that sale. In addition, we have entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $1 billion. As of April 2, 2010, we had no borrowings under our credit facility. From time to time in the future, we may also incur indebtedness in addition 16 Table of Contents to the amount available under our credit facility. Our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Of our outstanding convertible notes, $1.1 billion matures and is repayable in June 2011 and the balance is due in June 2013. We may be required to use all or a substantial portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on maturity unless we can obtain new financing. Our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the U.S. and we have significant operations outside of the U.S., including engineering, sales, customer support, and production. We plan to expand our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon the financial performance of our existing international operations as well as our identification of growth opportunities. Our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: Potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. laws or may not be adequately enforced Requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations Regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the U.S. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability such as higher interest rates in the U.S. and inflation that could reduce our customers ability to obtain financing for software products or that could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries Limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations Longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable Difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries Difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations Seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe and in other periods in other countries Reduced sales due to the failure to obtain any required export approval of our technologies, particularly our encryption technologies Costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages Political unrest, war, or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have facilities A significant portion of our transactions outside of the U.S. are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We expect to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the United States continue to increase. The level of corporate tax from sales to our non-U.S. customers is less than the level of tax from sales to our U.S. customers. This benefit is contingent upon existing tax regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. Future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. 17 Table of Contents Our products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. Because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. Our customers computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. In addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and, in some cases, may have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors. Errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. Many of our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. In addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs in one of our end-user customers systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced products and services, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain our key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance, and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. Competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. The volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. In addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of employee stock options and other forms of equity-based compensation as compensation expense. As a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. From time to time, key personnel leave our company. While we strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure