Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the accompanying notes to GenOns consolidated financial statements, other factors that could affect our future performance are set forth in Item 1A, Risk Factors. Certain Terms As used in this report, unless the context requires otherwise, we, us, our and GenOn refer to GenOn Energy, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, after giving effect to the Merger. ix Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. On December 3, 2010, Mirant and RRI Energy completed their Merger. Mirant merged with a wholly-owned subsidiary of RRI Energy, with Mirant surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of RRI Energy. In connection with the all-stock, tax-free Merger, RRI Energy changed its name to GenOn Energy, Inc., Mirant stockholders received a fixed ratio of 2.835 shares of GenOn common stock for each share of Mirant common stock, and Mirant changed its name to GenOn Energy Holdings. While RRI Energy was the legal acquirer, the Merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition, and Mirant was deemed to have acquired RRI Energy for accounting purposes. As a consequence of the reverse acquisition accounting treatment, the historical financial statements and results of operations presented for periods prior to the Merger date are the historical statements of Mirant, except for stockholders equity which has been retroactively adjusted for the equivalent number of shares of the legal acquirer. The operations of the former RRI Energy businesses have been included in the financial statements from the date of the Merger. Specifically, the consolidated financial statements and financial and operational results of GenOn include the results of Mirant through December 2, 2010 and include the results of the combined entities from December 3, 2010, unless indicated otherwise. Pursuant to the Plan for Mirant and certain of its subsidiaries, on January 3, 2006, Mirant emerged from bankruptcy and acquired substantially all of the assets of the old Mirant Corporation. The Plan provides that new Mirant (now named GenOn Energy Holdings) has no successor liability for any unassumed obligations of the old Mirant Corporation. The old corporation was then renamed and transferred to a trust, which is not affiliated with GenOn Energy Holdings. For further information about our corporate history, revenues, suppliers, business segments and Mirants bankruptcy, see notes 1, 14 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements and Selected Financial Data in Item 6 of this Form 10-K. Overview We provide energy, capacity, ancillary and other energy services to wholesale customers in competitive energy markets in the United States through ownership and operation of, and contracting for, power generation capacity. We are a wholesale generator with approximately 24,200 MW of net electric generating capacity in the PJM, MISO, Northeast and Southeast regions and California. We also operate integrated asset management and energy marketing organizations, including proprietary trading operations. Our customers are principally ISOs, RTOs and investor-owned utilities. Our generating portfolio is diversified across fossil fuel and technology types, operating characteristics and several regional power markets and serves customers primarily located near major metropolitan load centers. At December 31, 2010, our generating capacity was 50% in PJM, 23% in CAISO, 10% in the Southeast, 7% in MISO and 10% in NYISO and ISO-NE. The net generating capacity of these facilities consisted of approximately 34% baseload, 46% intermediate and 20% peaking capacity. Our coal facilities generally dispatch as baseload, although some dispatch as intermediate capacity, and our gas, oil and dual fuel plants primarily dispatch as intermediate and/or peaking capacity. Strategy Our goal is to create long-term stockholder value across a broad range of commodity price environments. We intend to achieve this goal by: Successfully integrating the companies and achieving cost savings targets. We expect to achieve approximately $150 million in annual cost savings through reductions in corporate overhead and support costs. We expect cost savings to result from consolidations in several areas, including headquarters, IT systems and corporate functions such as accounting, human resources and finance. Starting in January 2012, we expect to achieve the full $150 million of annual cost savings. We have estimated the total merger-related costs at 1 Table of Contents approximately $215 million. These costs include $87 million of advisory and legal fees and $128 million of other merger-related costs, including costs to achieve the savings. These amounts include $25 million incurred by RRI Energy prior to the Merger. During 2010, the Company incurred $114 million. We expect to incur approximately $63 million, $10 million and $3 million during 2011, 2012 and 2013 and beyond, respectively. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. Continued operating and commercial expertise. We have substantial experience in the management, operation and optimization of a portfolio of diverse generating facilities. Drawing on the best practices of Mirant and RRI Energy, we intend to operate our generating facilities safely and efficiently and in an environmentally responsible manner to achieve optimal availability and performance to maximize cash flow. Transacting to reduce variability in realized gross margin. We intend to develop and execute appropriate hedging strategies to manage risks associated with the volatility in the price at which we sell power and in the prices of fuel, emissions allowances and other inputs required to produce such power. This includes hedging over multiple years to reduce the variability in realized gross margin from our expected generation. In addition, we expect to continue to sell capacity either bilaterally or through periodic auction processes. Investing capital prudently. Our capital investment decisions are focused on achieving an appropriate return for our stockholders. Capital investments include participating in the development or acquisition of new facilities, the maintenance of our existing facilities for long-term availability and improved commercial availability, and investments in our existing facilities to improve their competitive position. Maintaining appropriate liquidity and capital structure. Through disciplined balance sheet management and maintaining adequate liquidity, we expect to be able to operate across a broad range of commodity price environments. Business Segments We have five operating segments: Eastern PJM, Western PJM/MISO, California, Energy Marketing and Other Operations. The Eastern PJM segment consists of eight generating facilities located in Maryland, New Jersey and Virginia. The Maryland and Virginia generating facilities are located near Washington, D.C. The Western PJM/MISO segment consists of 23 generating facilities located in Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania. The California segment consists of eight generating facilities and includes other business development efforts, including the Marsh Landing project. The Energy Marketing segment consists of our proprietary trading, fuel oil management and natural gas transportation and storage activities. The Other Operations segment consists of three generating facilities located in Massachusetts, one generating facility located in New York, three generating facilities located in Florida, one generating facility located in Mississippi and one generating facility located in Texas. For 2008, the Other Operations segment included the Lovett generating facility in New York, which was shut down on April 19, 2008 and demolished in 2009. 2 Table of Contents The table below summarizes selected financial information of our operations by business segment for 2010: Business Segments Revenues Gross Margin (1) Operating Income (Loss) (dollars in millions) Eastern PJM $ 1,710 (2) 75 % $ 1,012 77 % $ (775 ) 239 % Western PJM/MISO 118 (2) 5 % 43 3 % (11 ) 3 % California 149 7 % 126 10 % 17 (5 )% Energy Marketing 54 2 % 26 2 % 16 (5 )% Other Operations 239 11 % 100 8 % (187 ) 58 % Eliminations % % 616 (190 )% Total $ 2,270 100 % $ 1,307 100 % $ (324 ) 100 % (1) Gross margin excludes depreciation and amortization. (2) For 2010, we recorded $1.5 billion in revenues from a single counterparty (PJM) which represented 64% of our consolidated revenues. The revenues generated from this counterparty are included in our Eastern PJM, Western PJM/MISO and Energy Marketing segments. Eliminations for revenues and gross margin are primarily related to intercompany sales of emissions allowances. Eliminations for operating income/loss also include a $616 million impairment loss related to goodwill recorded at our GenOn Mid-Atlantic subsidiary on its standalone balance sheet. The goodwill impairment loss and related goodwill balance are eliminated upon consolidation at GenOn North America and are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company. For selected financial information about our business segments, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. Eastern PJM Segment We own or lease eight generating facilities in the Eastern PJM segment with total net generating capacity of 6,336 MW. Our Eastern PJM segment had a combined 2010 net capacity factor of 33%. The following table presents the details of our Eastern PJM generating facilities: Net Generating Primary Capacity Fuel Dispatch NERC Facility (MW) (1) Holding Type Type Location Region Chalk Point 2,401 Own Coal/Dual/Oil Baseload/Intermediate/Peaking Maryland RFC Dickerson 844 Own/Lease (2) Coal/Dual/Oil Baseload/Peaking Maryland RFC Gilbert 536 Own Dual Intermediate/Peaking New Jersey RFC Glen Gardner 160 Own Dual Peaking New Jersey RFC Morgantown 1,477 Own/Lease (2) Coal/Oil Baseload/Peaking Maryland RFC Potomac River 482 Own Coal Baseload/Intermediate Virginia RFC Sayreville 224 Own Dual Peaking New Jersey RFC Werner 212 Own Oil Peaking New Jersey RFC Total Eastern PJM 6,336 (1) Total MW amounts reflect net summer capacity. (2) We lease a 100% interest in the Dickerson and Morgantown baseload units through facility lease agreements expiring in 2029 and 2034, respectively. We own 307 MW and 248 MW of peaking capacity at the Dickerson and Morgantown generating facilities, respectively. We completed the installation of scrubbers at our Chalk Point, Dickerson and Morgantown coal-fired units in the fourth quarter of 2009. We previously installed SCR systems at the Morgantown coal-fired units and one of the Chalk Point coal-fired units and a selective auto catalytic reduction system at the other Chalk 3 Table of Contents Point coal-fired unit. In addition, we installed selective non-catalytic reduction systems at the three Dickerson coal-fired units. These controls are capable of reducing emissions of SO 2 , NO x and mercury by approximately 98%, 90% and 80%, respectively, for three of our largest coal-fired units in Maryland. We reviewed our Chalk Point, Dickerson, Morgantown and Potomac River generating facilities for impairment as a result of our annual assessment of the goodwill recorded at our GenOn Mid-Atlantic registrant on its standalone balance sheet, which is eliminated upon consolidation at GenOn North America. Upon completion of the assessment, we determined that none of the GenOn Mid-Atlantic generating facilities was impaired at October 31, 2010. In December 2010, PJM published an updated load forecast, which depicted a decrease in the expected demand from prior projections because of lower economic growth expectations. As a result of the load forecast, our current expectation is that there will be a decrease in the clearing prices for future capacity auctions in certain years. The decrease in projected capacity revenue caused us to update our October 2010 impairment review of GenOn Mid-Atlantics long-lived assets. Upon completion of our assessment, which was based on the accounting guidance related to the impairment of long-lived assets, we determined that the Dickerson and Potomac River generating facilities were impaired at December 31, 2010, as the carrying value exceeded the updated December 2010 undiscounted cash flows. We recorded fourth quarter impairment losses of $523 million and $42 million on our consolidated statement of operations to reduce the carrying values of the Dickerson and Potomac River generating facilities, respectively, to their estimated fair values. In addition, as a result of the full impairment of the Potomac River generating facility, we recorded $32 million in operations and maintenance expense and corresponding liabilities associated with our commitment to reduce particulate emissions at our Potomac River generating facility as part of the agreement with the City of Alexandria, Virginia. The planned capital investment would not be recovered in future periods based on the current projected cash flows of the Potomac River generating facility. We also have $32 million included in funds on deposit and other noncurrent assets in the consolidated balance sheets, which represents the remaining balance placed in escrow as a result of the agreement with the City of Alexandria. See note 5(c) to our consolidated financial statements for further information related to our GenOn Mid-Atlantic impairment analyses. Our generating facilities located in New Jersey may require further investment in environmental controls. See Environmental Regulation below for further information. Western PJM/MISO Segment We own or lease 23 generating facilities in the Western PJM/MISO segment with total net generating capacity of 7,483 MW. Our Western PJM/MISO segment had a combined 2010 net capacity factor of 36%. The following table presents the details of our Western PJM/MISO generating facilities: Net Generating Primary Capacity Fuel NERC Facility (MW) (1) Holding Type Dispatch Type Location Region Aurora 878 Own Natural gas Peaking Illinois RFC Avon Lake 753 Own Coal/Oil Baseload/Peaking Ohio RFC Blossburg 19 Own Natural gas Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Brunot Island 289 Own Natural gas/Oil Intermediate/Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Cheswick 565 Own Coal Baseload Pennsylvania RFC Conemaugh 281 Lease (2) Coal/Oil Baseload/Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Elrama 460 Own Coal Baseload Pennsylvania RFC Hamilton 20 Own Oil Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Hunterstown 60 Own Dual Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Hunterstown CCGT 810 Own Natural gas Intermediate Pennsylvania RFC Keystone 284 Lease (2) Coal/Oil Baseload/Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Mountain 40 Own Dual Peaking Pennsylvania RFC 4 Table of Contents Net Generating Primary Capacity Fuel NERC Facility (MW) (1) Holding Type Dispatch Type Location Region New Castle 330 Own Coal/Oil Baseload/Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Niles 242 Own Coal/Oil Baseload/Peaking Ohio RFC Orrtanna 20 Own Oil Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Portland 570 Own Coal/Dual Baseload/Intermediate/Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Seward 525 Own Coal Baseload Pennsylvania RFC Shawnee 20 Own Oil Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Shawville 603 Lease (2) Coal/Oil Baseload/Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Shelby 344 Own Natural gas Peaking Illinois SERC Titus 274 Own Coal/Dual Baseload/Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Tolna 39 Own Oil Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Warren 57 Own Dual Peaking Pennsylvania RFC Total Western PJM/MISO 7,483 (1) Total MW amounts reflect net summer capacity. (2) We lease 100%, 16.67% and 16.45% interests in three Pennsylvania facilities, Shawville, Keystone and Conemaugh, respectively, through facility lease agreements expiring in 2026, 2034 and 2034, respectively. We operate the Shawville, Keystone and Conemaugh facilities. The table includes our net share of the capacity of these facilities. We expect the Avon Lake, New Castle and Niles generating facilities to move from the MISO region to the PJM region in June 2011 as a result of the FERCs approval of the transfer. In 2009 and 2010, we installed scrubbers at the Keystone and Cheswick generating facilities to reduce the SO 2 emissions from these facilities. As a result, the number of SO 2 allowances we will need to purchase in the market to comply with current regulations is reduced. These scrubbers are capable of removing up to 98% of the SO 2 from the exhaust as well as reducing mercury emissions by up to 80%. The units had previously been retrofitted with SCRs to reduce NO x emissions. California Segment We own eight generating facilities in California with total net generating capacity of 5,725 MW. Our California segment generating facilities had a combined 2010 net capacity factor of 2%. The following table presents the details of our California generating facilities: Net Generating Primary Capacity Fuel NERC Facility (MW) (1) Holding Type Dispatch Type Location Region Contra Costa 674 Own Natural gas Intermediate California WECC Coolwater 608 Own Natural gas Intermediate California WECC Ellwood 54 Own Natural gas Peaking California WECC Etiwanda 640 Own Natural gas Intermediate California WECC Mandalay 560 Own Natural gas Intermediate/Peaking California WECC Ormond Beach 1,516 Own Natural gas Intermediate California WECC Pittsburg 1,311 Own Natural gas Intermediate California WECC Potrero (2) 362 Own Natural gas/Oil Intermediate/Peaking California WECC Total California 5,363 (2) 5 Table of Contents (1) Total MW amounts reflect net summer capacity. (2) We shut down the Potrero facility on February 28, 2011. The total net generating capacity for the California segment per the table excludes Potrero. See below for further discussion. In the third quarter of 2009, GenOn Potrero executed a settlement agreement with the City and County of San Francisco in which it agreed to shut down the Potrero generating facility when it is no longer needed for reliability, as determined by the CAISO. That settlement agreement became effective in November 2009. In December 2010, the CAISO provided GenOn Potrero with the requisite notice of termination of the RMR agreement. On January 19, 2011, at the request of GenOn Potrero, the FERC approved changes to GenOn Potreros RMR agreement to allow the CAISO to terminate the RMR agreement effective February 28, 2011. On February 28, 2011, the Potrero facility was shut down. Our existing generating facilities in California depend almost entirely on payments they receive to operate in support of system and local reliability through the sale of resource adequacy capacity to load serving entities. The energy, capacity and ancillary services markets, as currently constituted, will not support the capital expenditures necessary to repower or reconstruct our facilities. In order to obtain the necessary capital support for repowering or reconstructing our facilities, we would need to obtain contracts with creditworthy buyers. Absent that, our existing generating facilities in California will be commercially viable only as long as they have contracts for their capacity. Energy Marketing Segment Our Energy Marketing segment includes our proprietary trading, fuel oil management and natural gas transportation and storage activities. This activity includes the purchase and sale of electricity, fuel and emissions allowances, sometimes through financial derivatives. Using our fundamental understanding of the markets in which we operate, we support our commercial asset management activities as well as engage in proprietary trading when we identify opportunities. We engage in fuel oil management activities to hedge economically the fair value of our physical fuel oil inventories, optimize the approximately three million barrels of storage capacity that we own or lease, as well as attempt to profit from market opportunities related to timing and/or differences in the pricing of various products. We engage in natural gas transportation and storage activities to optimize our physical natural gas and storage positions and manage the physical gas requirements for a portion of our assets. Proprietary trading, fuel oil management and natural gas transportation and storage activities together will typically comprise less than 5% of our realized gross margin. All of our commercial activities are governed by a comprehensive risk management policy, which includes limits on the size of volumetric positions and VaR for our proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities and requires all incremental natural gas transportation and natural gas storage activities to be risk reducing. For 2010, our combined average daily VaR for proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities was $2 million. Other Operations Segment We own or lease four generating facilities in the Northeast region and five generating facilities in the Southeast region with total net generating capacity of 5,055 MW. Other Operations had a combined 2010 net capacity factor of 8%. Other Operations is comprised of our generating facilities located in Massachusetts, 6 Table of Contents New York, Florida, Mississippi and Texas. The following table presents the details of our Other Operations generating facilities: Net Generating Primary Capacity Fuel NERC Facility (MW) (1) Holding Type Dispatch Type Location Region Bowline 1,139 Own Dual Intermediate New York NPCC Canal 1,126 Own Dual/Oil Intermediate Massachusetts NPCC Choctaw 800 Own Natural gas Baseload Mississippi SERC Indian River (2) 586 Own Dual Intermediate Florida FRCC Kendall 256 Own Natural gas/Oil/Dual Baseload/Peaking Massachusetts NPCC Marthas Vineyard 14 Own Oil Peaking Massachusetts NPCC Osceola 450 Own Dual Peaking Florida FRCC Sabine (3) 54 Own Natural gas Baseload Texas SERC Vandolah 630 Lease (4) Dual Peaking Florida FRCC Total Other Operations 5,055 (1) Total MW amounts reflect net summer capacity. (2) The Indian River generating facility was mothballed in January 2010, other than during the third quarter of 2010 when one unit operated under a PPA. (3) We own a 50% equity interest in the Sabine facility located in east Texas having a net generating capacity of 108 MW. An unaffiliated party owns the other 50% and an affiliated party to the other owner operates the facility. The table includes our net share of the capacity of this facility. (4) We are party to a tolling agreement that expires in May 2012 and entitles us to purchase and dispatch 100% of this facilitys electric generating capacity. The tolling agreement is treated as an operating lease for accounting purposes. During the second quarter of 2010, the NYISO issued its annual peak load and energy forecast in its Load and Capacity Data report (the Gold Book). The Gold Book reports projected electricity supply and demand for the New York control area for the next ten years. The most recent Gold Book projects a significant decrease in future electricity demand as a result of current economic conditions and the expected future effects of demand-side management programs in New York. The expected reduction in future demand as a result of demand-side management programs is being driven primarily by an energy efficiency program being instituted within the State of New York that will seek to achieve a 15% reduction from 2007 energy volumes by 2015. As a result of the projections in the Gold Book, we evaluated the Bowline generating facility for impairment in the second quarter of 2010. The sum of the probability weighted undiscounted cash flows for the Bowline generating facility exceeded the carrying value. As a result, we did not record an impairment loss for the Bowline generating facility during the second quarter of 2010. GenOn Bowline has challenged its property tax assessment for the 2009 and 2010 tax years. Although the assessment for the 2010 tax year was reduced significantly from the assessment received in 2009, the assessment continues to exceed significantly the estimated fair value of the generating facility. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we identified certain operational issues that reduced the available capacity of the Bowline generating facility. We are in the process of evaluating long-term solutions for the generating facility, but our current expectation is that the reduction in available capacity could extend through 2012. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we again evaluated the Bowline generating facility for impairment because of the expected extended reduction in available capacity together with the pending property tax litigation and the effect of supply and demand assumptions in the NYISOs Gold Book. The sum of the probability weighted undiscounted cash flows for the Bowline generating facility exceeded the carrying value. As a result, we did not record an impairment loss for the Bowline generating facility during 2010. See note 5(c) to our 7 Table of Contents consolidated financial statements for further information related to our impairment analysis of the Bowline generating facility. ISO-NE previously had determined that, at times, it was necessary for the Canal generating facility to operate to meet local reliability criteria for SEMA when it is not economic for the Canal generating facility to operate based upon prevailing market prices. When the Canal generating facility operates to meet local reliability criteria, we are compensated at the price we bid into the ISO-NE, pursuant to ISO-NE market rules, rather than at the market price. During 2009, NSTAR Electric Company completed planned upgrades to the SEMA transmission system. These upgrades have reduced the need for the Canal generating facility to operate and caused a reduction in energy gross margin compared to historical levels. The final phase of these transmission upgrades was completed in the third quarter of 2009 and as a result, the capacity factor for the Canal generating facility dropped as compared to 2008. With the completion of the transmission upgrades and because of the Canal generating facilitys high fuel costs relative to other generation in the northeast market, we expect that the future revenues of the Canal generating facility will be principally capacity revenue from the ISO-NE forward capacity market. The Kendall generating facility, which is a cogeneration facility, has long-term agreements under which it sells steam. Pursuant to a consent decree, we discontinued operation of units 4 and 5 at our Lovett generating facility in New York in May 2007 and April 2008, respectively. In addition, we discontinued operation of unit 3 at the Lovett generating facility in May 2007 because it was uneconomic to operate the unit. We completed the demolition of the Lovett generating facility in 2009. Asset Management We provide energy, capacity, ancillary and other energy services to wholesale customers in competitive energy markets in the United States, including ISOs and RTOs, power aggregators, retail providers, electric-cooperative utilities, other power generating companies and load serving entities. Our commercial operations consist primarily of dispatching electricity, hedging the generation and sale of electricity, selling capacity, procuring and managing fuel and providing logistical support for the operation of our facilities (for example, by procuring transportation for coal and natural gas). Our strategy is to enter into economic hedgesforward sales of electricity and forward purchases of fuel and emissions allowancesto manage the risks associated with volatility in prices for electricity, fuel and emissions allowances and to achieve more predictable financial results. In addition, given the high correlation between natural gas prices and electricity prices in many of the markets in which we operate, we enter into forward sales of natural gas to hedge economically our exposure to changes in the price of electricity. We procure our hedges in OTC transactions or on exchanges where electricity, fuel and emissions allowances are broadly traded, or through specific transactions with buyers and sellers, using futures, forwards, swaps and options. Our hedges cover various periods, including several years. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for our aggregate hedge levels based on expected generation for 2011 to 2015. In addition, see Item 1A, Risk FactorsRisks Related to Economic and Financial Market ConditionsGreater regulation of energy contracts for a discussion of the risks of implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act on our ability to hedge economically our generation, including potentially reducing liquidity in the energy and commodity markets and, if we are required to clear such transactions on exchanges or meet other requirements, by significantly increasing the collateral costs associated with such activities. We sell capacity either bilaterally or through periodic auction processes in each ISO and RTO market in which we participate. Our capacity sales primarily occur through the PJM RPM and ISO-NE FCM auctions, but also in CAISO, MISO, NYISO and other markets where we enter into agreements with counterparties. We expect that a substantial portion of our PJM capacity will continue to be sold in PJM up to three years in advance. Revenue from these capacity sales is determined by market rules designed to ensure regional reliability, encourage competition and reduce energy price volatility. These capacity sales provide an important 8 Table of Contents source of predictable revenues for us over the contracted periods. At January 31, 2011, total projected contracted capacity and PPA revenues for which prices have been set for 2011 through 2014 are $3.1 billion. Power We hedge economically a substantial portion of our Eastern PJM coal-fired baseload generation and certain of our other generation. We generally do not hedge our intermediate and peaking units for tenors greater than 12 months. A significant portion of our hedges are financial swap transactions between GenOn Mid-Atlantic and financial counterparties that are senior unsecured obligations of such parties and do not require either party to post cash collateral either for initial margin or for securing exposure as a result of changes in power or natural gas prices. Although standard industry OTC transactions make up a substantial portion of our economic hedge portfolio, at times we sell non-standard, structured products to customers. Several of our California, Florida and Mississippi generating facilities typically operate under contracts for their capacity or energy. In California, GenOn Delta has entered into agreements with PG&E to provide electricity from our natural gas-fired units in service at Contra Costa and Pittsburg. With respect to Contra Costa units 6 and 7, GenOn Delta is providing 674 MW of capacity to PG&E for 2011 under a multi-year tolling agreement into which we entered in 2006. GenOn Delta entered into a new agreement with PG&E on September 2, 2009 for the 674 MW at Contra Costa units 6 and 7 for the period from November 2011 through April 2013. At the end of the agreement, and subject to any necessary regulatory approval, GenOn Delta has agreed to retire Contra Costa units 6 and 7, which began operations in 1964, in furtherance of state and federal policies to retire aging power plants that utilize once-through cooling technology. In addition, GenOn Delta entered into an agreement with PG&E on October 28, 2010 for 1,159 MW of capacity from Pittsburg units 5, 6 and 7 for three years commencing January 1, 2011, with options for PG&E to extend the agreement for each of 2014 and 2015. Under the respective agreements, GenOn Delta will receive monthly capacity payments with bonuses and/or penalties based on heat rate and availability. On September 2, 2009, GenOn Marsh Landing entered into a ten-year PPA with PG&E for 760 MW of natural gas-fired peaking generation to be constructed adjacent to our Contra Costa generating facility near Antioch, California. Construction of the Marsh Landing generating facility is expected to be completed by mid-2013. Fuel We enter into contracts of varying terms to secure appropriate quantities of fuel that meet the varying specifications of our generating facilities. For our coal-fired generating facilities, we purchase most of our coal from a small number of suppliers under contracts with terms of varying lengths, some of which extend to 2013 and one that extends to 2020. See