Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of this one large sale. In FY 2011 and the year ended June 30, 2010, leasing accounted for 68% and 65% of total revenues, respectively. Management expects leasing revenues to account for larger portion of total revenue in future periods. Pac-Vans largest leasing customer accounted for approximately 5% of total leasing revenues and its top ten customers accounted for approximately 11% of its total leasing revenues. The following chart shows the percentage of revenues generated by different industries in FY 2012 for both leasing and sales. Construction. Construction customers include a diverse group of contractors and subcontractors who work on commercial and residential projects. This customer base includes general contractors, mechanical contractors, plumbers, electricians and roofers. In FY 2012, revenue generated from construction customers was 33% of total revenues, a decrease from 35% in FY 2011. Contractors typically use Pac-Vans products to provide on-site office facilities and to securely store construction materials and supplies at construction sites. Nevertheless, Pac-Van believes the majority of its lease and lease-related revenue is derived from the commercial construction market. Demand from Pac-Vans construction customers tends to be higher in the second and third calendar quarters when the weather is warmer, particularly in the central and northern United States. Services. Service customers include businesses that provide medical care or veterinary services, entertainment companies including those conducting sporting events, religious institutions, other than for their classroom needs and equipment leasing companies that sublease Pac-Vans equipment. These customers may use any or all of Pac-Vans products and services. Retail. Retail customers include both large national chains and small local stores. These customers typically lease storage containers and storage trailers to store excess inventory and supplies. Retail customers also use Pac-Vans storage products during store remodeling or refurbishment. Demand from these customers can be seasonal and tends to peak just prior to the winter holidays. I-16 Table of Contents Industrial. Industrial and manufacturing customers include a broad array of manufacturers, water, refuse, recycling, and bottling companies. They generally lease storage containers and storage trailers to store both inventory and raw materials. They lease mobile offices and modular buildings for extra office space, cafeterias, changing rooms and other interior space needs. These customers use portable liquid storage tanks to store chemicals, waters, and other fluids. Mining and Energy. Mining and energy customers include a broad array of businesses, including oil refineries, petrochemical refineries, power plants, oil and natural gas exploration, and alternative energy companies. They generally lease storage containers and storage trailers to store equipment both inventory and raw materials. They lease mobile offices and modular buildings for temporary on site extra office space, cafeterias, changing rooms and other space needs. Frac tank containers are leased in to aid in the fracturing, capturing, and processing of natural gas and oil. Commercial . The commercial customer segment includes a wide variety of businesses, but excludes businesses that have customers who shop at their location. These customers may use Pac-Vans modular products as their place of business, Pac-Vans mobile offices as supplemental office space and Pac-Vans storage products to store their inventory, goods or supplies. Government. Government customers include correctional institutions, fire departments as well as the U.S. military. These customers generally lease storage containers and storage trailers to safeguard materials used in their day-to-day operations and various government projects. They lease mobile offices and modular buildings for classrooms, training offices and general office space. Education . The education customer segment includes both public and private schools and day care facilities, and includes classroom space for religious institutions. Pac-Van provides space to this customer group ranging from entire school facilities to supplemental classroom space, to portable storage equipment for storing athletic gear. Sales and Marketing As of June 30, 2012, Pac-Vans sales and marketing team consisted of 32 employees. The 19 branch managers also play a critical role in Pac-Vans sales and marketing programs. Members of Pac-Vans sales group act as its primary customer service representatives and are responsible for fielding calls, obtaining credit applications, quoting prices, following up on quotes and handling orders. The sales team is responsible for developing and managing local relationships, as well as making both inbound and outbound calls. The sales team assists customers define and understand their space needs, assesses potential opportunities, quotes deals, closes transactions and obtains the necessary documentation. Upon completing a lease or a sale the sales team works closely with the local branch operations team to ensure that Pac-Van is able to meet or exceed customer expectations. Pac-Vans centralized support services group handles all billing, collections and other support functions, allowing its sales and marketing team to focus on addressing the needs of its customers. Pac-Vans marketing group is primarily responsible for coordinating direct mail, Internet marketing and other advertising campaigns, producing company literature, creating promotional sales tools and managing its customer relationship management system. Pac-Vans centralized support services group handles all billing, collections and other support functions, allowing its sales and marketing team to focus on addressing the needs of its customers. Pac-Vans marketing programs emphasize product quality, service capabilities, the cost-savings and convenience of using its products versus constructing temporary or permanent offices or storage facilities. Pac-Van markets its services through a number of promotional vehicles, including the Internet, Yellow Pages, prominent branding of its equipment, telemarketing, targeted mailings, trade shows and limited advertising in publications. The development of Pac-Vans marketing programs are developed by branch managers, regional vice presidents and senior management, all of whom participate in devising branch-by-branch marketing strategies based on fleet availability and forecasted demand. Pac-Vans branch managers, working with its corporate marketing team, determine the timing, content and target audience of direct mailings, specials and promotional offers, while the corporate office manages the marketing process itself to ensure the consistency of its message, achieve economies of scale and relieve its local branches of the administrative responsibility of running its marketing programs. Pac-Van believes that its approach to marketing is consistent with the local nature of its business and allows each branch to employ a customized marketing plan that fosters growth within its particular market. Management Information Systems Pac-Vans management information systems are instrumental to its lease fleet management and targeted marketing efforts and allow management to monitor operations at branches on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis. Lease fleet information is updated daily at the branch level and verified through routine physical inventories by branch I-17 Table of Contents personnel. This provides management with on-line access to utilization, lease fleet unit levels and rental revenues by branch or geographic region. In addition, an electronic file for each unit showing its lease history and current location and status is maintained in the information system. Branch sales people utilize the system to obtain information regarding unit condition and availability. The database tracks individual units by serial number and provides comprehensive information including cost, condition and other financial and unit specific information. Employees As of June 30, 2012, Pac-Van had 194 employees. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and management believes its relationship with employees is good. We have never experienced any material labor disruption and are unaware of any efforts or plan to organize our employees. The employee groups are as follows: Senior and branch management 26 Corporate staff 24 Sales and marketing 32 Branch operations and administration 112 In addition, at June 30, 2012, we have four full-time employees at our GFN corporate office in Pasadena, California. Regulatory Matters We must comply with various federal, state and local laws and regulations in connection with our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations. In addition to compliance costs, we may incur costs related to alleged environmental damage associated with past or current properties owned or leased. We believe that our liability, if any, for any environmental remediation will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, we cannot be certain that the discovery of currently unknown matters or conditions, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business or operations in the future. A portion of Pac-Vans units are subject to regulation in certain states under motor vehicle and similar registrations and certificate of title statutes. We believe that we have complied in all material respects with all motor vehicle registration and similar certificate of title statutes in states where such statutes clearly apply to modular space units. However, in certain states, the applicability of such statutes to its modular space units is not clear beyond doubt. If additional registration and related requirements are deemed to be necessary in such states or if the laws in such states or other states were to change to require compliance with such requirements, Pac-Van could be subject to additional costs, fees and taxes as well as administrative burdens in order to comply with such statutes and requirements. We do not believe the effect of such compliance will be material to our business, results of operations or financial condition. Trademarks We entered into a licensing agreement with Triton Corporation in May 2008 for the use of the Royal Wolf name and trademark in connection with its retail sales and leasing of intermodal cargo containers and other container applications in the domestic storage market within Australia and New Zealand and surrounding islands in the Pacific Islands region. We paid Triton Corporation $740,000 to license the trademark. The license will continue in perpetuity as long as Royal Wolf continues to use the Royal Wolf name and trademark as the exclusive name for its business and mark for its products, subject to the termination provisions of the license. The license may be terminated by the licensor upon 30 days notice in the event Royal Wolf breaches its obligations under the license and will terminate automatically if Royal Wolf becomes insolvent or ceases to sell products under the trademark for a continuous period of 30 months. GFN sold the Royal Wolf name and trademark to Royal Wolf in May 2011 in connection with the Australian IPO of RWH. There are no claims pending against Royal Wolf challenging its right to use the Royal Wolf name and trade mark within Royal Wolfs region of business. Pac-Van owns a number of trademarks important to its business, including Pac-Van and Weve Put Thousands of U.S. Businesses In Space . We have also applied for and are awaiting final confirmation on Expect More. Well Deliver and Container King. Material trademarks are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Registrations for such trademarks in the United States will last indefinitely as long as Pac-Van continues to use and maintain the trademarks and renew filings with the applicable governmental offices. I-18 Table of Contents Available information Our Internet website address is www.generalfinance.com . This reference to our Internet website does not incorporate by reference the information contained on or hyperlinked from our Internet website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such information should not be considered part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Internet websites for Royal Wolf and Pac-Van are www.royalwolf.com.au and www.PacVan.com , respectively. A noncontrolling interest of the capital stock of Royal Wolf that we do not own is traded on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) under the symbol RWH. We are required to file Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on a regular basis, and are required to disclose certain material events in a current report on Form 8-K. The public may read and obtain a copy of any materials we file with the SEC through our Internet website noted above, which is hyperlinked to the SECs Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SECs Internet website is located at http://www.sec.gov. I-19 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following information is provided as of June 30, 2012 regarding our executive officers who are not a continuing director or a director nominee. Information concerning our chief executive officer, who is a continuing director or a director nominee, is set forth in PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which incorporates by reference to our definitive Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. No family relationship exists between any executive officer. Name Age Position Charles E. Barrantes 60 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Christopher A. Wilson 45 General Counsel, Vice President and Secretary Jeffrey A. Kluckman 51 Executive Vice President, Business Development Robert Allan 56 Chief Executive Officer of Royal Wolf Theodore Mourouzis 49 President and Chief Operating Officer of Pac-Van, Inc. Charles E. Barrantes has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since September 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Barrantes was vice president and chief financial officer for Royce Medical Company from early 2005 to its sale in late 2005. From 1999 to early 2005, he was chief financial officer of Earl Scheib, Inc., a public company that operated over 100 retail paint and body shops. Mr. Barrantes has over 25 years of experience in accounting and finance, starting with more than a decade with Arthur Andersen & Co. Christopher A. Wilson has served as our General Counsel, Vice President and Secretary since December 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Wilson was the general counsel and assistant secretary of Mobile Services Group, Inc. from February 2002 to December 2007. Mr. Wilson practiced corporate law as an associate at Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP from 1998 to February 2002. Mr. Wilson graduated with a B.A. from Duke University in 1989 and a J.D. from Loyola Law School of Los Angeles in 1993. Jeffrey A. Kluckman became our Executive Vice President, Business Development in September 2011. Prior to joining us, among other things, he held the role of vice president of mergers and acquisitions for portable storage solutions provider Mobile Mini, Inc. (NASDAQ: MINI) and, earlier, similar positions with Mobile Storage Group, Inc., which was acquired by Mobile Mini in 2008, and RSC Equipment Rental, Inc. (NYSE: RRR). In his over 15-year background in the rental services sector, including the mobile storage, modular space and equipment rental industries, Mr. Kluckman successfully completed more than 110 transactions. Mr. Kluckman received an accounting degree from Northern Illinois University. Robert Allan has served as the Chief Executive Officer of Royal Wolf since February 2006. Mr. Allan joined Royal Wolf in April 2004 as its Executive General Manager. From 2000 until joining Royal Wolf, he served as Group General Manager of IPS Logistics Pty Ltd, a shipping and logistics company. From 1997 until 2000, Mr. Allan was employed as a Regional Director of Triton Container International, the worlds largest lessor of marine cargo containers to the international shipping industry. Mr. Allan has more than 30 years of experience in the container leasing and logistics industries. Theodore Mourouzis has served as the President of Pac-Van, Inc. since August 2006. He previously served as its Chief Operating Officer since 1999 and as its Vice President of Finance from 1997 until 1999. Prior to his employment with Pac-Van, Mr. Mourouzis, among other things, was a controller for a 3M joint venture, served four years in management consulting with Deloitte & Touche (focusing in operations and business process consulting), and was president of a picture framing distributor and the chief financial officer of its holding company. He received his undergraduate degree from Stanford University (in 1985) and a Masters of Business Administration from The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania (in 1991). I-20 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating us. This section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT before the beginning of Item 1. Global economic conditions and market disruptions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There continues to be global economic uncertainty, elevated levels of unemployment, reduced levels of economic activity, and it is uncertain as to when economic conditions will improve. These negative economic conditions in the markets where we operate, and other events or factors that adversely affect demand in the portable services industry, could continue to adversely affect our business. Though we have strengthened our efforts in collections and inventory control, continued worsening of conditions could adversely affect the collection of trade receivables on a timely basis, could result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts and, in the event of continued contraction in container and modular unit sales and leasing, could lead to a build-up of inventory and lease fleet levels. These factors would have a further adverse impact on operating results and cash flows. In addition, fluctuations in the rates of exchange for the U.S. dollar against the Australian, New Zealand and Canadian dollars could significantly affect our results of operations through lower than anticipated reported revenues and profitability as a result of the translation of our foreign operations financial results into U.S. dollars. We operate with a significant amount of indebtedness, which is secured by all or substantially all of our assets, subject to variable interest rates and contain restrictive covenants. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, such as: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations at Royal Wolf and Pac-Van to payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future operating capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as our borrowings on our secured senior credit facilities are at variable rates of interest; require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; and violating covenants in these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; including substantially increasing our cost of borrowing and restricting our future operations, if not cured or waived. In addition, the lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. Accordingly, we may not be able to fully repay our debt obligations, if some or all of our debt obligations are accelerated upon an event of default. Our senior credit agreements also contain various restrictive covenants that limit the operations of our business. In particular, these agreements include covenants and restrictions relating to: payments and distributions to GFN; liens and sale-leaseback transactions; loans and investments; debt and hedging arrangements; mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; transactions with affiliates; and changes in business activities. I-21 Table of Contents There were no events of default under the covenants of our senior credit facilities at June 30, 2012. While we believe we will remain in compliance with covenants in the foreseeable future and that our relationships with our senior lenders are good, there is no assurance our lenders would consent to an amendment or waiver in the event of noncompliance; or that such consent would not be conditioned upon the receipt of a cash payment, revised principal payout terms, increased interest rates, or restrictions in the expansion of the credit facilities for the foreseeable future; or that our senior lenders would not exercise rights that would be available to them, including, among other things, demanding payment of outstanding borrowings. In addition, our ability to obtain additional capital or alternative borrowing arrangements at reasonable rates may be adversely affected. All or any of these adverse events would further limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to downturns in our business. Reference is made to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding our indebtedness. Our inability to raise capital. Our inability to obtain capital in the amounts and at the times when needed, may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including substantially increasing our cost of borrowing and restricting our future operations. These events may significantly reduce the value of your investment. A write-off of all or a part of our goodwill and intangibles would hurt our operating results and reduce our stockholders equity. As a result of our acquisitions of Royal Wolf, Pac-Van and other smaller businesses, we have recorded significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of the total purchase price of these acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We are not permitted to amortize goodwill under U.S. accounting standards and instead we review goodwill, as well as intangible assets, at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. In the event impairment is identified, a charge to earnings would be recorded. Although it does not affect our cash flow, a write-off of all or a part of our goodwill or intangibles would adversely affect our operating results and stockholders equity. At each yearend of the two fiscal years prior to June 30, 2012, we recognized an impairment charge to the goodwill recorded in the Pac-Van acquisition. At June 30, 2012, there was no impairment charge recorded, but future write-downs may be occur if conditions, such as those discussed above, would adversely impair our operations. Reference is made to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding goodwill and intangible assets. Future acquisitions of businesses could subject us to additional business, operating and industry risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact our capital structure. We intend to pursue acquisition opportunities in an effort to diversify our investments and grow our business. Any business we acquire may cause us to be affected by numerous risks inherent in the acquired business operations. If we acquire a business in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although we will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure that we will be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. In addition, the financing of any acquisition we complete could adversely impact our capital structure as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional equity securities and/or the borrowing of additional funds. The issuance of additional equity securities may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and/or adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Increasing our indebtedness could increase the risk of a default that would entitle the holder to declare all of such indebtedness due and payable and/or to seize any collateral securing the indebtedness. In addition, default under one debt instrument could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those other instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross default clauses. Accordingly, the financing of future acquisitions could adversely impact our capital structure and any equity interests in us. While part of our long-term business strategy is to acquire additional businesses, there is no assurance that we will be able to identify businesses that we can acquire upon terms we believe acceptable, or if such acquisitions require additional financing, that we could obtain such additional financing. We cannot ascertain the availability of businesses to acquire, nor the capital requirements for future transactions. We cannot assure that, if required, additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular acquisition, we would be compelled to either restructure the I-22 Table of Contents transaction or abandon that particular acquisition. In addition, if we consummate a future acquisition, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing may impact the continued development or growth of the target business. Our long-term growth plan includes the expansion of operations into markets outside of the United States and the Asia-Pacific area. Such international expansion may not prove successful, and may divert significant capital, resources and managements time and attention and adversely affect our on-going operations. To date, we have conducted all of our business within North America and the Asia-Pacific area. However, we have intentions in the future to enter international markets, including possibly South America and the European markets, which will require substantial amounts of management time and attention. Our products and overall marketing approach may not be accepted in other markets to the extent needed to make our international expansion profitable. In addition, the additional demands on management from these activities may detract from our efforts in our current markets and adversely affect our operating results therein. Any international expansion will expose us to the risks normally associated with conducting international business operations, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, changes in foreign legislation, possible foreign currency controls, currency exchange rate fluctuations or devaluations, tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, difficulties in obtaining and managing vendors and distributors, potential negative tax consequences and difficulties collecting accounts receivable. Our long-term growth could strain our management resources. Our future performance will depend in large part on our ability to manage our long-term planned growth that could strain our existing management, human and other resources. To successfully manage this growth, we must continue to add managers and employees and improve our operating, financial and other internal procedures and controls. We also must effectively motivate, train and manage employees. If we do not manage our growth effectively, it would adversely affect our future operating results. To complete future business combinations, we may issue shares of our capital stock that would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership, or incur debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. At June 30, 2012, there were 74,042,748 authorized shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and options issued under our Stock Incentive Plan (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). If we seek to consummate future business combinations, we may be required to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete the other business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors; may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, we may incur substantial debt to complete another business combination. The incurrence of debt could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security instrument covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt instrument is outstanding. We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to regulation and taxation under a wide variety of foreign and U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Internal Revenue Service, the I-23 Table of Contents Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and NASDAQ, as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, additional taxation and restatement of our financial statements. There can also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as recently adopted legislation that expands health care coverage costs, or facilitates union activity or federal legislative proposals to otherwise increase taxation and operating costs. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business and our insurance may not fully protect us. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business. These possible claims include those relating to: (i) personal injury or death caused by container products, mobile offices or modular units leased or sold by us; (ii) accidents involving our vehicles and our employees; (iii) employment-related claims; (iv) property damage and (v) commercial claims. We believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for the protection of our assets and operations. However, our insurance may not fully protect us for certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits. In addition, we may be exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our policy limits. If we are found liable for any significant claims that are not covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. It is possible that our insurance carrier may disclaim coverage for any class action and derivative lawsuits against us. It is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or not available at all. In addition, whether we are covered by insurance or not, certain claims may have the potential for negative publicity surrounding such claims, which may adversely impact our operating results, value of our public securities, or give rise to additional similar claims being filed. Disruptions in our information technology systems could limit our ability to effectively monitor and control our operations and adversely affect our operations. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. Any disruption in our information technology systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively transact business, monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions in a timely manner. The delay or failure to implement information system upgrades and new systems effectively could disrupt our business, distract managements focus and attention from our business operations and growth initiatives, and increase our implementation and operating costs, any of which could negatively impact our operations and operating results. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to resell common stock when they want or at a price they find attractive. We expect that the market price of our common stock will fluctuate. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in interest rates and other general economic conditions; significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; news reports relating to trends, concerns, litigation, regulatory changes and other issues in our industry; geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; relatively low trading volume; and significant concentration of ownership in our common stock. I-24 Table of Contents If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, which may limit the return on your investment in us. Except for payment of dividends on our preferred stock and on the capital stock of Royal Wolf, we intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our outstanding options and warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and increase the difficulty of effecting future business combinations. At June 30, 2012, we had outstanding options and warrants to purchase 3,937,287 shares of common stock. The potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these warrants and options could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. Unionization by some or all of our employees could cause increases in operating costs. Our employees are not presently covered by collective bargaining agreements. Unions may attempt to organize our employees in the future. We are unable to predict the outcome of any continuing or future efforts to organize our employees, the terms of any future labor agreements, or the effect, if any, those agreements might have on our operations or financial performance. Significant Risks Related Primarily to Our Operations in the Asia-Pacific Area The future performance of Royal Wolf depends on customer demand for portable container solutions as well as the expansion of the portable container solutions products market in Australia. Any reduction in customer demand, failure of customer demand to grow, or failure of Royal Wolf to meet changes in customer demand or preferences may adversely affect Royal Wolfs businesses, operational performance, growth prospects and financial position. Royal Wolf is also subject to demand fluctuations in key markets such as resources, construction, manufacturing, and retail. The success and ability to drive future growth is dependent to a large extent on brand reputation. Royal Wolf believes its brand reputation is a key driver in its success and its ability to drive future growth. Any adverse change to the reputation of Royal Wolf may adversely affect the Companys businesses, operational performance and financial condition. Royal Wolf owns the trademark and license for the name Royal Wolf in Australia, New Zealand and surrounding islands in the Asia-Pacific region. There is a risk that use of the Royal Wolf brand by third parties in jurisdictions in which Royal Wolf does not own the trademark may adversely impact the Royal Wolf brand. Royal Wolfs ability to achieve its long-term business strategy is dependent to a certain extent on its supply chain and purchasing. Royal Wolfs long-term business strategy assumes a certain level of growth in Australian and New Zealand demand for container based solutions. Royal Wolfs ability to meet this demand is dependent, to a certain extent, on the ability of Royal Wolf to purchase storage containers economically and on an on-time basis. Historically, Royal Wolf has successfully worked with shipping lines and international container leasing companies to purchase used containers, and with manufacturers and brokers, including in China, to purchase new containers, but there can be no guarantee of this in the future. Changes to shipping line practices with respect to used containers, and adverse changes in trade practices, regulations and relations between Australia and its trading partners, including China, could adversely impact Royal Wolfs ability to purchase containers or impact the price at which Royal Wolf is able to purchase containers. Historically, Royal Wolf has relied on internal supply chain and sourcing arrangements, international suppliers and the logistics industry to relocate containers. Changes to these arrangements, constraints on the supply chain, failure of suppliers to deliver or I-25 Table of Contents deliver in a timely manner, or material increases in the price of new or used containers could have an adverse impact on Royal Wolfs business, operational performance, profit margins and financial results. Royal Wolfs expansion plans involve an element of risk and could strain management resources. Royal Wolf intends to pursue a growth strategy involving organic and non-organic growth. There is a no guarantee that such growth will occur or be successful. Royal Wolf may incur significant capital expenditure in connection with expansion plans that may not be realized or may not deliver the earnings that are expected. In addition, Royal Wolfs expansion plans may, in the future, give rise to risks or problems, including the diversion of managements attention and resources, which may have a materially adverse impact on the performance of Royal Wolf. Limitations on Royal Wolfs growth and expansion, or materially adverse changes arising from expansion plans, may affect the operating and financial performance of Royal Wolf. Failure to retain key personnel could adversely affect Royal Wolfs ability to execute its business strategy. The successful operation and growth of Royal Wolf depends, to a significant extent, upon the performance and expertise of key staff and Royal Wolfs ability to attract and retain skilled employees. Changes that adversely affect Royal Wolfs ability to attract and retain skilled employees could materially impact Royal Wolfs business, operational performance and financial results. Additionally, Royal Wolf does not maintain key person insurance, and as such may be adversely impacted by the departure of key staff. Royal Wolf conducts its business in a highly competitive sector. Royal Wolfs faces competition in the portable buildings, freight and portable storage markets. Royal Wolf also faces potentially significant competition from modular industry companies who have non-container portable building offerings, especially from several national competitors in Australia who have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Royal Wolf. As a result, Royal Wolf is subject to potential entry by new domestic and foreign competitors and the provision of new products or services, aggressive pricing and lease rates offered by existing competitors. Royal Wolf may not always be able to match its competitors in service levels, functionality and price. The emergence of a new competitor with international reach, or increased focus on the rental model by existing competitors, particularly with an extensive distribution network, could have an adverse effect on Royal Wolfs business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Also, continued service improvement by competitors may result in Royal Wolfs customers using substitutes in place of some of Royal Wolfs products. Royal Wolf may not always be able to match its competitors in both functionality and price, which could negatively impact Royal Wolfs revenues. In addition, some of Royal Wolfs unique products are the subject of patent applications only and there is no guarantee that those applications will become effective. If the patent applications do not become effective, there is a risk that Royal Wolfs competitors could produce similar rival products, which may have an adverse effect on Royal Wolf. Royal Wolf is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Royal Wolf is subject to exchange rate fluctuations, particularly as it sources a substantial portion of its portable container solutions fleet from China in purchases, which are U.S. dollar-denominated. While Royal Wolf has a hedging policy to mitigate this risk, unhedged exchange rate fluctuations in the Australian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar and, to a lesser extent, the New Zealand dollar, may adversely affect the financial performance of Royal Wolf, including its financial position, cash flows, distributions, growth prospects, and Share price Royal Wolf is subject to Australian and New Zealand taxation and tariff regulation. Significant recent reforms and current proposals for further reforms to tax laws in the jurisdictions within which Royal Wolf operates may give rise to uncertainty. The precise scope and impact of future changes to tax laws may not be known. Royal Wolf is also subject to import tariffs with respect to the portable container products it sources from overseas. Any changes to such tax or tariff laws (including the imposition of, or increases to, such taxes or tariffs), their interpretation or the manner in which they are administered by the relevant government agency or the current rate of company income tax or import tariff may impact the operational or financial performance of Royal Wolf (or customers in its key end markets). Royal wolf may face a tightening labor force and is subject to Occupational Health and Safety regulations. Royal Wolfs ability to remain productive, profitable and competitive and to effect its planned growth initiatives depends on its ability to attract and retain workers. Tightening of the labor market in key regions due to a shortage of suitably skilled workers may inhibit Royal Wolfs ability to hire and retain employees. Additionally, rising wages paid to employees may pose a risk to Royal Wolfs margins if it is unable to pass on such higher costs through price increases. I-26 Table of Contents Royal Wolf is also subject to Occupational Health and Safety regulations. If Royal Wolf is not able to maintain its working conditions to meet Occupational Health and Safety regulations it may impact Royal Wolfs operations and ability to attract and retain workers and also result in contravention of those regulations, which may give rise to potential criminal and civil liability and also damage Royal Wolfs brand and reputation. Significant Risks Related Primarily to Our Business and Operations in North America General or localized economic downturns or weakness may adversely affect Pac-Vans customers, in particular those in the construction industry, which may reduce demand for Pac-Vans products and services and negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. A significant portion of Pac-Vans revenues is derived from customers who are in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and subject to changes in general economic conditions, including the construction industry, which constituted over 30% of Pac-Vans revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. Although the variety of Pac-Vans products, the breadth of its customer base and the number of markets it serves throughout the United States limit its exposure to economic downturns, general economic downturns or localized downturns in markets where its operates could reduce demand for Pac-Vans products, especially in the construction industry, and negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. Pac-Van faces significant competition in the modular buildings and portable storage industries. Pac-Van also faces potentially significant competition from modular buildings companies who have portable storage product offerings, especially from several national competitors in the United States who have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Pac-Van does. If Pac-Van is unable to compete successfully, it could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. Although Pac-Vans competition varies significantly by market, the modular buildings markets in which Pac-Van competes are dominated by two large participants and are highly competitive. In addition, Pac-Van competes with a number of large to mid-sized regional competitors, as well as many smaller, full and part-time operators in many local regions. The modular building industry is highly competitive, subject to stiff pricing competition and almost all of the competitors have portable storage product offerings. The primary modular national competitors with portable storage product offerings are less leveraged than Pac-Van, and have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Pac-Van does. If they focus on portable storage, Pac-Van could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. If Pac-Van is unable to compete successfully, it could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. Because Pac-Van has depended to a large extent on the success of its leasing operations, the failure of Pac-Van to effectively and quickly remarket lease units that are returned could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, Pac-Vans average monthly lease fleet utilization has averaged between 70% and 85%; with the typical lease term being for an average period of over twelve months. The high utilization rate and the length of the average lease have provided Pac-Van with a predictable revenue stream. However, if utilization rates decline or should a significant number of Pac-Vans lease units be returned during any short period of time, Pac-Van would have to re-lease a large supply of units at similar rates to maintain historic revenues from these operations. Pac-Vans failure to effectively maintain historical utilization rates or remarket a large influx of units returning from leases could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales of modular buildings, mobile offices and container product units constitute a significant portion of Pac-Vans revenues and the failure to continue to sell units at historic rates could adversely affect our ability to grow Pac-Vans lease fleet. Revenues from sales of modular buildings, mobile offices and container products have been used to fund increases in the size of our lease fleet. As a result, the failure to continue to sell a significant number of units may adversely affect our ability to increase the size of Pac-Vans lease fleet or to otherwise take advantage of business and growth opportunities available to it. We may be brought into tort or environmental litigation or held responsible for cleanup of spills if the customer fails to perform, or an accident occurs in the use of our tank container products, which could materially adversely affect our business, future operating results or financial position. Our portable liquid tank containers are used by our customers to store non-hazardous and certain hazardous liquids on the customers site. Our customers are responsible for proper operation of our fleet equipment while on lease and returning a cleaned and undamaged container upon completion of use, but we cannot always assure that these responsibilities are fully met in all cases. In addition, if an accident were to occur involving our lease equipment or a spill of substances were to occur when in-transport or on-lease with our customer, a claim could be made against us as owner of the lease equipment. I-27 Table of Contents In the event of a spill or accident, we may be brought into a lawsuit or enforcement action by either our customer or a third party on numerous potential grounds, including that an inherent flaw in a container tank contributed to the accident or that the container tank had suffered some undiscovered harm from a previous customers prior use. In the event of a spill caused by our customers, we may be held responsible for cleanup under environmental laws and regulations concerning obligations of suppliers of rental products to effect remediation. In addition, applicable environmental laws and regulations may impose liability on us for conduct of third parties, or for actions that complied with applicable regulations when taken, regardless of negligence or fault. Substantial damage awards have also been made in certain jurisdictions against lessors of industrial equipment based upon claims of personal injury, property damage, and resource damage caused by the use of various products. While we try to take reasonable precautions that our lease equipment is in good and safe condition prior to lease and carry insurance to protect against certain risks of loss or accidents, liability could adversely impact our profitability. The portable liquid containment rental industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could impair or ability to increase market share and to rent, or sell, equipment at favorable prices. The portable liquid containment industry is highly competitive. We compete against national, regional and local companies, some of which are significantly larger than we are and both of which have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Some of our competitors also have longer operating histories, lower cost basis of rental equipment, lower cost structures and more established relationships with equipment manufacturers than we have. In addition, certain of our competitors are more geographically diverse than we are and have greater name recognition among customers than we do. As a result, our competitors that have these advantages may be better able to attract customers. We believe that local relationships, equipment quality, service levels and fleet size are key competitive factors in the portable liquid containment industry. From time to time, we or our competitors may attempt to compete aggressively by lowering rental rates or prices. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our future revenues and operating results by depressing the rental rates. To the extent we lower lease rates or increase our fleet in order to retain or increase market share, our operating margins would be adversely impacted. In addition, we may not be able to match a larger competitors price reductions or fleet investment because of its greater financial resources, all of which could adversely impact our future operating results. Changes in regulatory, or governmental, oversight of hydraulic fracturing could materially adversely affect the demand for our portable liquid containment products. We believe that in recent years growing demand related to hydraulic fracturing has increased and we have made a conscientious decision to enter into this market. However, oil and gas exploration and extraction (including use of tanks for hydraulic fracturing of gas and oil shale) are subject to numerous local, state and federal regulations. The hydraulic fracturing method of extraction has come under scrutiny in several states and by the Federal government due to the potential adverse effects that hydraulic fracturing, and the liquids and chemicals used, may have on water quality and public health. In addition, the disposal of wastewater from the hydraulic fracturing process into injection wells may increase the rate of seismic activity near drill sites and could result in regulatory changes, delays or interruption of future activity. Changes in these regulations could limit, interrupt, or stop exploration and extraction activities, which would negatively impact the demand for our portable liquid containment products. Seasonality of the portable liquid containment industry may impact future quarterly results. Activity may decline in our second quarter month of December and our third quarter months of January and February. These months may have lower rental activity in parts of the country where inclement weather may delay, or suspend, a companys project. The impact of these delays may be to decrease the number of frac tank containers on lease until companies are able to resume their projects when weather improves. These seasonal factors may impact our future quarterly results in each years second and third quarters. Significant increases in raw material costs could increase our operating costs significantly and harm our future results of operations. Pac-Van purchases raw materials, including metals, lumber, siding and roofing and other products, to construct and modify modular buildings and to modify containers to its customers requirements. Pac-Van also maintains a truck fleet to deliver units to and return units from customers. During periods of rising prices for raw materials, especially oil and fuel for delivery vehicles, and in particular when the prices increase rapidly or to levels significantly higher than normal, Pac-Van may incur significant increases in operating costs and may not be able to pass price increases through to customers in a timely manner, which could harm our future results of operations. I-28 Table of Contents Failure to retain key personnel could adversely affect Pac-Vans operations and could impede our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy. Pac-Van is managed largely by seven key senior managers. The continued success of Pac-Van will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of these senior managers. These officers and employees have an understanding of Pac-Van and its industry that cannot be readily duplicated. In addition, we do not have key-man insurance. The loss of any member of Pac-Vans senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause a loss of customers, reduce revenues and adversely affect employee morale. Failure by Pac-Vans manufacturers to sell and deliver products to Pac-Van in timely fashion may harm Pac-Vans reputation and our financial condition. Pac-Van currently purchases new modular buildings and components, mobile offices and container products directly from manufacturers. Although Pac-Van is not dependent on any one manufacturer and is able to purchase products from a variety of suppliers, the failure of one or more of its suppliers to timely manufacture and deliver storage containers to Pac-Van could adversely affect its operations. Pac-Van purchases new modular buildings and components, mobile offices and storage containers under purchase orders issued to various manufacturers, which the manufacturers may or may not accept or be able to fill. Pac-Van has no contracts with any supplier. If these suppliers do not timely fill Pac-Vans purchase orders, or do not properly manufacture the ordered products, our reputation and financial condition also could be harmed. Some zoning laws restrict the use of Pac-Vans storage units and therefore limit its ability to offer its products in all markets. Many of Pac-Vans customers use Pac-Vans storage units to store goods on their own properties. Local zoning laws in some of Pac-Vans markets prohibit customers from maintaining mobile offices or storage containers on their properties or require that mobile offices or storage containers be located out of sight from the street. If local zoning laws in one or more of Pac-Vans geographic markets were to ban or restrict its products from being stored on customers sites, Pac-Vans business in that market could suffer. Developments in California may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We are headquartered and have operations in California, which like many other state and local jurisdictions is facing severe budgetary problems and deficits. Action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed Business Net Receipts Tax or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. I-29 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties We locate our Asia-Pacific CSCs (or branches) in markets with attractive demographics and strong growth prospects. Within each market, we have located our CSCs in areas that allow for easy delivery of mobile storage units to our customers over a wide geographic area. In addition, when cost effective, we seek high visibility locations. Our CSCs maintain an inventory of mobile storage units available for lease, and most of our CSCs also provide storage of units under lease at the site (on-site storage). Several CSCs have multiple leases of adjoining or contiguous properties and, except for the Auckland, New Zealand self-storage and regional office site, the CSCs are all leased. The following table shows information about our CSCs and other properties by country (Australia and New Zealand) and we believe these properties are suitable and adequate for our needs: Location Functions/Uses Year Established Australia: Adelaide Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2006 Brisbane Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2005 Brisbane (special products and modifications) Leasing and modifications (not a CSC) 2008 Cairns Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2004 Canberra Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2007 Melbourne East Clayton Leasing, on-site storage and sales 1997 Melbourne West Sunshine Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2005 Darwin Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2010 Geraldton Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2007 Gold Coast Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2005 Gosford Central Coast Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2009 Hobart Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2008 Hornsby Head office 1986 Sydney Moorebank Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2009 Sydney St Marys Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2011 Newcastle Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2001 Perth North Bayswater Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2004 Perth South Bibra Lakes Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2006 Tomago (Newcastle) On-site storage and sales (not a CSC) 2008 Townsville Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2005 New Zealand: Auckland-Ormiston Rd (owned) Head office and on-site storage 2000 Auckland-East Tama Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2005 Christchurch Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2002 Hamilton Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2010 New Plymouth (Palmerston North) Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2012 Silverdale/Albany Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2008 Tauranga/Bay of Plenty Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2009 Wellington Leasing, on-site storage and sales 2007 I-30 Table of Contents Except for the head office of Pac-Van, which we own, all of the locations in North America are leased. Most of Pac-Vans major leased properties have remaining lease terms of at least one year, and we believe that none of the individual branch locations is material to our operations. We also believe that satisfactory alternative properties could be found in all of our North American markets, if necessary. The following table shows information about our branches and other properties in North America: Location Functions/Uses Year Established United States: Atlanta, GA Leasing and sales 2008 Bakersfield, CA Leasing and sales 2008 Charleston, WV Fleet storage 2007 Charlotte, NC Leasing and sales 2005 Chicago, IL Leasing and sales 2005 Cincinnati, OH Leasing and sales 2008 Cleveland, OH Leasing and sales 2008 Columbus, OH Leasing and sales 2005 Dallas, TX Leasing and sales 2008 Denver, CO Leasing and sales 2008 Elkhart, IN Fleet storage 2009 Chino, CA Leasing and sales 2008 Indianapolis, IN Leasing and sales 1998 Indianapolis, IN (owned) Head office 2011 Jacksonville, FL Leasing and sales 2007 Kansas City, MO Leasing and sales 2000 Las Vegas, NV Leasing and sales 2006 Louisville, KY Leasing and sales 2006 Memphis, TN Leasing and sales 1999 Nashville, TN Leasing and sales 2001 Orlando, FL Leasing and sales 2006 Phoenix, AZ Leasing and sales 2009 Pittsburgh, PA Leasing and sales 2005 Salt Lake City, UT Leasing and sales 2008 St. Louis, MO Leasing and sales 2008 Toledo, OH Leasing and sales 2008 Trenton, NJ Leasing and sales 2009 Canada: Edmonton, AB Leasing and sales 2012 We lease our corporate headquarters in Pasadena, California, effective January 31, 2008, from an affiliate of our chief executive officer, who is also a member of the board of directors. The rent is $7,393 per month, plus allocated charges for common area maintenance, real property taxes and insurance, for approximately 3,000 square feet of office space. The term of the lease is five years, with two five-year renewal options, and the rent is adjusted yearly based on the consumer price index. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are not involved in any material lawsuits or claims arising out of the normal course of our business. We have insurance policies to cover general liability and workers compensation related claims. In our opinion, the ultimate amount of liability not covered by insurance under pending litigation and claims, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows. Reference is made to Note 10 of our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of commitments and contingencies, including any legal proceedings. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. I-31 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market (NASDAQ) under the symbol GFN and our units and warrants are listed on NASDAQ under the symbols GFNCL and GFNCZ, respectively. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the range of high and low closing sales prices for our common stock, units and warrants. Units Common Stock Warrants High Low High Low High Low Year Ended June 30, 2012: Fourth Quarter $ 3.35 $ 3.00 $ 3.22 $ 2.78 $ 0.25 $ 0.25 Third Quarter 3.39 2.66 2.89 2.48 0.00 0.00 Second Quarter 3.50 2.63 2.98 2.50 0.00 0.00 First Quarter 3.50 3.47 3.48 2.63 0.00 0.00 Year Ended June 30, 2011: Fourth Quarter $ 4.40 $ 2.80 $ 3.40 $ 2.61 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 Third Quarter 3.51 2.22 3.65 2.01 0.00 0.00 Second Quarter 4.00 1.50 2.60 1.30 0.00 0.00 First Quarter 2.70 1.50 1.28 1.01 0.00 0.00 Record Holders As of July 31, 2012, there were a combined 77 holders of record of our common stock, units and warrants; however, we believe that there are thousands of beneficial owners. Dividend Policy We have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date. The payment of dividends in the future will be contingent upon our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements and general financial condition. The payment of any dividends will be within the discretion of our board of directors. It is the present intention of our board of directors to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business operations and, accordingly, our board does not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future. Sales of Unregistered Securities We conducted private placements of Series A 12.5% Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share and liquidation preference of $50 per share (Series A Preferred Stock), and Series B 8% Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value of $0.0001 per share and liquidation value of $1,000 per share (Series B Preferred Stock), in reliance upon exemptions from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 506 promulgated thereunder. The Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock are referred to collectively as the Cumulative Preferred Stock. The Cumulative Preferred Stock is not convertible into GFN common stock, has no voting rights, except as required by Delaware law, and is not redeemable prior to February 1, 2014; at which time it may be redeemed at any time, in whole or in part, at our option. Holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, when declared by our Board of Directors, annual dividends payable quarterly in arrears on the 31 st day of January, July and October and the 30 th day of April of each year. In the event of any liquidation or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Cumulative Preferred Stock will have preference to holders of common stock, with the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock having preference over holders of the Series B Preferred Stock. As of June 30, 2012, we had issued 25,900 shares and 173.333 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock for total proceeds of $1,295,000 and $173,333, respectively. II-1 Table of Contents Equity Compensation Plan The following table sets forth information concerning our equity compensation plans, the 2006 Stock Option Plan and the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, as of June 30, 2012: Plan category (a) Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights (b) Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights (c) Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 1,843,664 $ 4.96 656,336 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders Total 1,843,664 $ 4.96 656,336 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following tables summarize our selected financial data for each of the four years ended June 30, 2012 and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements included in