Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements include references to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, as well as statements including words such as expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, goal, intent, momentum, projects, and similar expressions. In addition, projections of our future financial performance; anticipated growth and trends in our businesses and in our industries; the anticipated impacts of acquisitions (including the recent acquisition of Avira), divestitures, restructurings, stock repurchases, and investment activities; the outcome or impact of pending litigation, claims or disputes; our intent to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future; plans for and anticipated benefits of our solutions; matters arising out of the ongoing U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) investigation; anticipated tax rates, benefits and expenses; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations and financial performance; and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions, based on our current expectations about future events and may not prove to be accurate. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Part II Item 1A, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We encourage you to read that section carefully. OVERVIEW NortonLifeLock Inc. has the largest Consumer Cyber Safety platform in the world, empowering nearly 80 million users in more than 150 countries. We are the trusted and number one top of mind brand in consumer Cyber Safety, according to the 2020 NortonLifeLock brand tracking study. We help prevent, detect and restore potential damages caused by many cyber criminals. Fiscal calendar We have a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31. The three months ended July 2, 2021 and July 3, 2020 each consisted of 13 weeks. Our 2022 fiscal year consists of 52 weeks and ends on April 1, 2022. Key financial metrics The following tables provide our key financial metrics for the periods presented: Three Months Ended (In millions, except for per share amounts) July 2, 2021 July 3, 2020 Net revenues $ 686 $ 614 Operating income $ 287 $ 120 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 181 $ 149 Income (loss) from discontinued operations $ $ (31) Net income $ 181 $ 118 Net income per share from continuing operations - diluted $ 0.31 $ 0.24 Net income (loss) per share from discontinued operations - diluted $ $ (0.05) Net income per share - diluted $ 0.31 $ 0.19 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 258 $ 170 As Of (In millions) July 2, 2021 April 2, 2021 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 1,245 $ 951 Contract liabilities $ 1,231 $ 1,265 Below are our financial highlights for the first quarter of fiscal 2022, compared to the corresponding period in the prior year: Net revenues increased $72 million, due to higher sales in both our consumer security products and our identity and information protection products. 25 Table of Contents Operating income increased $167 million, primarily due to the increase in revenue and the decrease in restructuring costs for which the related activities were completed in fiscal 2021. The increase was partially offset by our investment in advertising during fiscal 2022. Income (loss) from continuing operations increased $32 million, primarily due to the increase in operating income partially offset by an increase in income tax expense. Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, decreased from a loss of $31 million, primarily due to the completion of the discontinued operations activities during fiscal 2021. Net income increased $63 million and net income per share increased $0.12, primarily due to the increase in income from continuing operations discussed above, partially offset by the $121 million increase in income tax expense. COVID-19 UPDATE The COVID-19 pandemic is having widespread, rapidly evolving and unpredictable impacts on global society, economies, financial markets and business practices. To protect the health and well-being of our employees, partners and third-party service providers, we implemented a near company-wide work-from-home requirement for most employees, made substantial modifications to employee travel policies and cancelled or shifted our conferences and other marketing events to virtual-only. We continue to monitor the situation and plan to adjust our current policies as recommendations and public health guidance is changing. To date, we have not seen any meaningful negative impact on our customer success efforts, sales and marketing efforts or employee productivity. Nevertheless, as employees, partners or third-party services providers return to work during the COVID-19 pandemic, the risk of inadvertent transmission of COVID-19 through human contact could still occur and result in litigation. The U.S. and global economies have experienced a recession due to the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Although we did not experience a material increase in cancellations by customers or a material reduction in our retention rate in 2021, we may experience such an increase or reduction in the future, especially in the event of a prolonged recession as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. A prolonged recession could adversely affect demand for our offerings, retention rates and harm our business and results of operations, particularly in light of the fact that our solutions are discretionary purchases and thus may be more susceptible to macroeconomic pressures, as well impact the value of our common stock, ability to refinance our debt and our access to capital. The duration and extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be accurately forecasted at this time, such as the severity and transmission rate of new variants of the disease, the extent, effectiveness and acceptance of containment actions, such as vaccination programs, and the impact of these and other factors on our employees, customers, partners and third-party service providers. For more information on the risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, please see Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A below. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. requires us to make estimates, including judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates on a regular basis and make changes accordingly. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting amounts are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. Making estimates and judgments about future events is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our critical accounting policies and estimates were disclosed in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 2, 2021. There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the three months ended July 2, 2021. 26 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations data as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended July 2, 2021 July 3, 2020 Net revenues 100 % 100 % Cost of revenues 15 14 Gross profit 85 86 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 23 24 Research and development 10 11 General and administrative 7 9 Amortization of intangible assets 3 3 Restructuring, transition and other costs 1 21 Total operating expenses 43 66 Operating income 42 20 Interest expense (5) (7) Other income (expense), net 3 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 37 16 Income tax expense (benefit) 10 (8) Income (loss) from continuing operations 26 24 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (5) Net income 26 % 19 % Note: Percentages may not add due to rounding. Net revenues Three Months Ended (In millions, except for percentages) July 2, 2021 July 3, 2020 Change in % Net revenues $ 686 $ 614 12 % Net revenues increased $72 million, due to a $49 million increase in sales of our consumer security products and a $23 million increase in sales of our identity and information protection products. This was driven by an increase in our direct customer count year-over-year, stable annual retention rate and revenue attributable to Avira, which was acquired during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. Performance Metrics We regularly monitor a number of metrics in order to measure our current performance and estimate our future performance. Our metrics may be calculated in a manner different than similar metrics used by other companies. The following table summarizes supplemental key performance metrics: Three Months Ended (In millions, except for per user amounts) July 2, 2021 July 3, 2020 Direct customer revenues (1) $ 611 $ 552 Partner revenues $ 80 $ 62 Average direct customer count 23.0 20.4 Direct customer count (at quarter end) 23.1 20.6 Direct average revenue per user (ARPU) $ 8.84 $ 9.03 (1) Direct customer revenues during the three months ended July 2, 2021 excludes a $5 million reduction of revenue from a contract liability purchase accounting adjustment. We believe that eliminating the impact of this adjustment improves the comparability of revenues between periods. In addition, although the adjustment amounts will never be recognized in our GAAP financial statements, we do not expect the acquisitions to affect the future renewal rates of revenues excluded by the adjustments. We define direct customer revenues as revenues from sales of our consumer solutions to direct customers, which we define as active paid users who have a direct billing relationship with the Company at the end of the reported period. We exclude users 27 Table of Contents on free trials and users who have indirectly purchased our product or services through partners unless such users convert or renew their subscription directly with us. Average direct customer count presents the average of the total number of direct customers at the beginning and end of the fiscal quarter. ARPU is calculated as estimated direct customer revenues for the period divided by the average direct customer count for the same period, expressed as a monthly figure. Non-GAAP estimated direct customer revenues and ARPU have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP estimated direct customer revenues or other GAAP measures. We monitor ARPU because it helps us understand the rate at which we are monetizing our consumer customer base. Net revenues by geographical region Three Months Ended July 2, 2021 July 3, 2020 Americas 70 % 73 % EMEA 19 % 16 % APJ 11 % 11 % The Americas include the U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan. Percentage of revenue by geographic region in the first three months of fiscal 2022 remains primarily in the Americas but is beginning to shift into the international markets, which is consistent with our stated strategy. Cost of revenues Three Months Ended (In millions, except for percentages) July 2, 2021 July 3, 2020 Change in % Cost of revenues $ 102 $ 86 19 % Our cost of revenues increased $16 million, primarily due to higher revenue share costs, payment processing fees and technical support costs associated with year-over-year business growth. Operating expenses Three Months Ended (In millions, except for percentages) July 2, 2021 July 3, 2020 Change in % Sales and marketing $ 156 $ 145 8 % Research and development 68 65 5 % General and administrative 45 53 (15) % Amortization of intangible assets 21 18 17 % Restructuring and other costs 7 127 (94) % Total operating expenses $ 297 $ 408 (27) % Sales and marketing expense increased $11 million, primarily due to a $19 million increase in advertising and promotional expenses as a result of increased investment in advertising. This is partially offset by a $10 million decrease in IT costs from corporate restructuring and cost reduction efforts in fiscal 2021. Research and development expense increased $3 million, primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits as a result of the Avira acquisition. General and administrative expense decreased $8 million, primarily due to IT asset restructuring and write-offs in connection with our November 2019 restructuring plan (the November 2019 Plan). Amortization of intangible assets increased by $3 million as a result of the Avira acquisition. Restructuring and other costs decreased $120 million, due to a $47 million decrease in contract cancellation charges, $11 million decrease in severance costs, $55 million decrease in asset write-offs and a $7 million decrease in stock-based compensation charges, in connection with the November 2019 Plan, which was substantially completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2021. 28 Table of Contents Non-operating income (expense), net Three Months Ended (In millions) July 2, 2021 July 3, 2020 Interest expense $ (32) $ (40) Interest income 2 Foreign exchange gain 1 1 Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt (5) 20 Transition service expense, net (8) Other 1 4 Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (35) $ (21) Non-operating income (expense), net, increased by $14 million in expense, primarily due to the absence of gain on early extinguishment of debt of $20 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2021, which was partially offset by a $3 million loss on the amendment and extension of our credit facility and a $2 million loss on early extinguishment of our $250 million New 2.5% Convertible Notes during the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Provision for income taxes Three Months Ended (In millions, except for percentages) July 2, 2021 July 3, 2020 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes $ 252 $ 99 Income tax expense (benefit) $ 71 $ (50) Effective tax rate 28 % (51) % Our effective tax rate for income for the three months ended July 2, 2021 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to state taxes, partially offset by the benefits of lower-tax international earnings and various permanent differences. Our effective tax rate for the three ended months July 3, 2020 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to a tax benefit related to a favorable tax ruling, the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development tax credit, partially offset by state taxes and various permanent differences. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and international tax jurisdictions. Our results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent that our geographical mix of income becomes more weighted toward jurisdictions with higher tax rates and would be favorably affected to the extent the relative geographic mix shifts to lower tax jurisdictions. Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and therefore, is difficult to predict. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year. Given the potential resolution of uncertain tax positions involves multiple tax periods and jurisdictions, we are unable to accurately estimate when these unrecognized tax benefits will be realized or released. However, it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing income tax controversies and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND CASH REQUIREMENTS Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically relied on cash generated from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt and proceeds from divestitures for our liquidity needs. Our principal cash requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support on-going business activities, including payment of taxes and cash dividends, funding capital expenditures, servicing existing debt, repurchasing shares of our common stock and investing in business acquisitions. Our capital allocation strategy is to balance driving stockholder returns, managing financial risk and preserving our flexibility to pursue strategic options, including acquisitions. Historically, this has included a quarterly cash dividend, the repayment of debt and the repurchase of shares of our common stock. Cash and cash equivalents As of July 2, 2021, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $1,245 million, of which $473 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed with the objective to preserve principal, maintain liquidity and generate investment returns. The participation exemption system under current U.S. federal tax regulations generally allows us to make distributions of non-U.S. earnings to the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal tax, however these distributions may be subject to applicable state or foreign taxes. 29 Table of Contents Debt We have an undrawn revolving credit facility of $1 billion, which expires in May 2026. On May 7, 2021, we entered into the first amendment to our credit agreement (the First Amendment), which provided for an incremental increase under the Initial Term Loan, and extended the maturity date of the Initial Term Loan, the Delayed Draw Term Loan, and revolving credit facility from November 2024 to May 2026. We borrowed $525 million under the First Amendment of our Initial Term Loan. For additional discussion on the amendment, see Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. On May 20, 2021, we settled the $250 million principal and conversion rights of our New 2.5% Convertible Notes in cash. The aggregate settlement amount of $364 million was based on $24.40 per underlying share into which the New 2.5% Convertible Notes were convertible. In addition, we paid $1 million of accrued and unpaid interest through the date of settlement and $1 million of cash dividends that we declared on May 10, 2021. Sale of certain assets On July 14, 2021, we completed the sale of certain land and buildings in Mountain View, which were previously classified as held for sale, for cash consideration of $358 million. Cash flows The following summarizes our cash flow activities: Three Months Ended (In millions) July 2, 2021 July 3, 2020 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 258 $ 170 Investing activities $ (1) $ 23 Financing activities $ 44 $ (1,305) See Note 7 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for our supplemental cash flow information. Cash from operating activities Our cash flows from operating activities increased by $88 million, primarily due to higher profit before taxes adjusted by non-cash items and an increase in accounts payable as a result of the timing of payments and an increase in income taxes payable as a result of a higher pre-tax income and subsequent tax provision during the first three months of fiscal 2022. Cash from investing activities Our cash flows from investing activities decreased $24 million, primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments. Cash from financing activities Our cash flows from financing activities increased $1,349 million, primarily due to $512 million of proceeds from the issuance of our Initial Term Loan and decreases in repayments of debt and payments of dividends and dividend equivalents. The first three months of fiscal 2022 reflects the settlement of our New 2.5% Convertible Notes of $364 million and payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $84 million, compared to the settlement of our 2.0% Convertible Notes of $1,179 million and payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $105 million during the first three months of fiscal 2021. Dividend equivalents paid during the first three months of fiscal 2021 included a larger portion of awards released that were entitled to the special $12 dividend declared in fiscal 2020. Cash Requirements Debt. As of July 2, 2021, our total outstanding principal amount of indebtedness is summarized as follows. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information on our debt. (In millions) July 2, 2021 Term Loans $ 1,741 Senior Notes 1,500 Convertible Senior Notes 625 Mortgage Loans 10 Total debt $ 3,876 Debt covenant compliance . The credit agreement we entered into in November 2019, which was amended and extended through May 2026 on May 7, 2021, contains customary representations and warranties, non-financial covenants for financial reporting and affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios . As of July 2, 2021 , we 30 Table of Contents were in compliance with all debt covenants. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information regarding financial ratios and debt covenant compliance Dividends. On July 27, 2021, we announced the declaration of a cash dividend of $0.125 per share of common stock to be paid in September 2021. Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. Stock repurchases. Under our stock repurchase program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through accelerated stock repurchase transactions, open market transactions (including through trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act) and privately-negotiated transactions. On May 4, 2021, our Board of Directors approved an incremental share repurchase authorization of $1,500 million. No shares were repurchased during the three months ended July 2, 2021. As of July 2, 2021, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization was $1,774 million and does not have an expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities. Restructuring. Under our restructuring plans approved by our Board of Directors in December 2020, we have incurred cash expenditures primarily for severance and termination benefits. As of July 2, 2021, we estimate remaining costs of up to $5 million in connection with the December 2020 Plan. During the three months ended July 2, 2021, we made $4 million in cash payments related to the December 2020 Plan. Actions under the December 2020 Plan are expected to be completed in fiscal 2022. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further cash flow information associated with our restructuring activities. Contractual obligations. Our principal commitments consist of principal and interest payments related to our debt instruments, obligations under our purchase agreements, repatriation tax payments under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Acts and obligations under various non-cancellable leases. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits and other long-term taxes as of July 2, 2021, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $563 million in long-term income taxes payable has been excluded from our quarterly review of timing of contractual obligations. Commitments related to the principal payments of our debt instruments increased $256 million from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 2, 2021 primarily due to additional borrowings under our Initial Term Loan, partially offset by the repayment of our New 2.5% Convertible Notes. There have been no other material changes, outside the ordinary course of business, to the contractual obligations reported in our Annual Report. For additional information about our debt obligations and certain other contingencies, see Note 10 and Note 18, respectively, of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with cash generated from operations and amounts available under our credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs and support on-going business activities through at least the next 12 months and to meet our known long-term contractual obligations. However, our future liquidity and capital requirements may vary materially from those as of July 2, 2021 depending on several factors, including, but not limited to, economic conditions; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; the costs to acquire or invest in businesses; and the risks and uncertainties discussed in Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A below. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. In connection with the sale of Veritas and the sale of our Enterprise Security business to Broadcom, we assigned several leases to Veritas Technologies LLC or Broadcom and/or their related subsidiaries. See Note 18 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information on our indemnifications.