Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements include references to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, as well as statements including words such as expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, projects, and similar expressions. In addition, projections of our future financial performance, anticipated growth and trends in our businesses and in our industries, the anticipated impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and of our restructurings, our intent to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions, based on our current expectations about future events and may not prove to be accurate. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Risk Factors, set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and in Part II Item 1A, of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. We encourage you to read those sections carefully. OVERVIEW Our business Symantec Corporation is a global leader in cybersecurity. We operate our business on a global civilian cyber intelligence threat network and track a vast number of threats across the Internet from hundreds of millions of mobile devices, endpoints, and servers across the globe. We believe one of our competitive advantages is our database of threat indicators. This database allows us to reduce the number of false positives and provide faster and better protection for customers through our products. We are leveraging our capabilities to deliver integrated solutions for customers. We are also pioneering solutions in markets such as cloud security, digital safety, advanced threat protection, identity protection, information protection and cyber security services. 19 Table of Contents Fiscal calendar We have a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31. The three months ended September 29, 2017 ( Q2 FY18 ) and September 30, 2016 ( Q2 FY17 ) both consisted of 13 weeks. The six months ended September 29, 2017 ( YTD FY18 ) and September 30, 2016 ( YTD FY17 ) both consisted of 26 weeks. Our 2018 fiscal year consists of 52 weeks and ends on March 30, 2018 . Strategy Our strategy is to deliver comprehensive cyber security solutions for both enterprises and consumers. Our enterprise security strategy is to deliver an Integrated Cyber Defense platform that allows Symantec products to share threat intelligence and improve security outcomes for customers across all control points. Symantec is the leading vendor in protecting users, information, web and messaging across an integrated platform. Our consumer digital safety strategy is to deliver the most comprehensive consumer digital safety solutions to help people protect their information, identities, devices and families. Our financial highlights and results of operations Our financial highlights and results of operations discuss our business and overall analysis of financial and other highlights affecting the company and analyze our financial results comparing Q2 FY18 to Q2 FY17 and YTD FY18 to YTD FY17 . This interim Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with the MD&A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 . During Q2 FY18 , we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our website security and public key infrastructure (WSS and PKI) solutions. As a result, in Q2 FY18 , the related assets and liabilities have been classified as held for sale on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The transaction closed on October 31, 2017, subsequent to Q2 FY18 . See Note 13 and Note 14 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our held for sale classification and related disposition. Also during Q2 FY18 , we completed our acquisitions of Israel-based Fireglass, Ltd. (Fireglass) and Skycure, Ltd. (Skycure). The results of our former information management business (Veritas) are presented as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and thus have been excluded from continuing operations and segment results for all reported periods. The following discussion relates to our current segment reporting structure and our continuing operations unless stated otherwise. Our operating segments Our operating segments are significant strategic business units that offer different products and services distinguished by customer needs. Our operating segments are: Enterprise Security and Consumer Digital Safety. Enterprise Security. Our Enterprise Security segment solutions protect organizations so they can securely conduct business while leveraging new platforms and data. Our Enterprise Security segment includes our endpoint protection products, endpoint management, messaging protection products, information protection products, cyber security services, website security and advanced web and cloud security offerings. Our enterprise endpoint, network security and management offerings support evolving endpoints and networks, providing advanced threat protection while helping reduce cost and complexity. These products and solutions are delivered through various methods, such as software, appliance, virtual appliance, Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and managed services. Consumer Digital Safety . Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers. This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services. Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact. With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers digital lives. For more information on our operating segments see Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 20 Table of Contents Financial highlights and business trends The following charts provide an overview of key financial metrics in millions, except for percentage of revenues. Below are our financial highlights for the three months ended September 29, 2017 , compared to the comparable period in the prior year: Revenue increased by 27% , driven by a 20% and 37% increase in revenue from our Enterprise Security and Consumer Digital Safety segments, respectively, primarily due to the contributions from the acquisitions of Blue Coat, Inc. (Blue Coat) and LifeLock, Inc. (LifeLock), respectively. Our margins remained flat primarily due to increased revenue offset by increased cost of revenues and operating expenses as a result of our acquisitions of Blue Coat and LifeLock. Cost of revenues increased primarily due to increased amortization of intangible assets of $26 million as a result of our acquisitions of Blue Coat and LifeLock. Operating expenses increased due to increased stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets of $87 million and $21 million , respectively, primarily as a result of our acquisitions. Additionally, operating expenses increased due to increased advertising and promotional expense of $59 million, largely related to LifeLock. These increases were partially offset by savings from ongoing cost reduction initiatives. Below are our financial highlights for the six months ended September 29, 2017 , compared to the comparable period in the prior year: Revenue increased by 30% , driven by a 26% and 34% increase in revenue from our Enterprise Security and Consumer Digital Safety segments, respectively, primarily due to the contributions from the acquisitions of Blue Coat and LifeLock. Our gross margin decreased by two percentage points primarily due to increased revenue offset by increased cost of revenues from increased amortization of intangible assets of $75 million as a result of our acquisitions of Blue Coat and LifeLock, respectively. Our operating margin was (2)% for YTD FY18 , compared to 5% for YTD FY17 , primarily due to increased operating expenses including increased stock-based compensation expense and amortization of intangible assets of $182 million and $66 million , respectively, primarily as a result of our acquisitions. Additionally, operating expenses increased due to increased advertising and promotional expenses of $122 million, largely related to LifeLock. These increases were partially offset by savings from ongoing cost reduction initiatives. 21 Table of Contents Cash paid for income taxes decreased $822 million , primarily due to the one-time payment during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 related to the gain on sale from the divestiture of Veritas during fiscal 2016. During YTD FY18 , we repaid debt totaling $2.0 billion as part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet. During YTD FY18 , we acquired several companies for total cash consideration of $361 million, net of cash acquired. For more information on our acquisitions see Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We expect our operating margin to fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including our operating results and the timing and amount of expenses incurred. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Segment operating results Enterprise Security Segment The following charts are in millions except for percentage of revenues. Q2 FY18 compared to Q2 FY17 Revenue increased $112 million , or 20% primarily due to increased revenue from Blue Coat network protection solutions, which were included in our results of operations for two months during Q2 FY17 . Due to the fair value adjustments to deferred revenue as a result of our acquisition of Blue Coat, we excluded $15 million of revenue we otherwise would have recognized in Q2 FY18 compared to $36 million that we excluded in Q2 FY17 . Operating income increased $122 million , or 488% , primarily due to the contribution from the Blue Coat acquisition. YTD FY18 compared to YTD FY17 Revenue increased $277 million , or 26% primarily due to increased revenue from Blue Coat network protection solutions. Operating income increased $188 million , or 355% , primarily due to the contribution from the Blue Coat acquisition. Consumer Digital Safety Segment The following charts are in millions except for percentage of revenues. 22 Table of Contents Q2 FY18 compared to Q2 FY17 Revenue increased $149 million , or 37% , primarily due to revenue from sales of LifeLock products, which were absent in Q2 FY17 . Due to fair value adjustments to deferred revenue as a result of our acquisition of LifeLock, we excluded $21 million of revenue we otherwise would have recognized in Q2 FY18 . While the trend of declining revenues from sales of Norton-branded products continued in Q2 FY18 , we continued to benefit from the shift to subscription-based contracts and combined packaging of consumer products, resulting in a lower year-over-year decline in Q2 FY18 as compared to Q2 FY17 . Operating income increased $28 million , or 13% , primarily due to the contribution from the LifeLock acquisition. The increase was partly offset by increased advertising and promotional expense of $59 million, largely related to LifeLock products. YTD FY18 compared to YTD FY17 Revenue increased $275 million , or 34% , primarily due to revenue from sales of LifeLock products, which were absent in the first six months of FY17. Due to fair value adjustments to deferred revenue as a result of our acquisition of LifeLock, we excluded $50 million of revenue we otherwise would have recognized in the first six months of FY18. While the trend of declining revenues from sales of Norton-branded products continued in YTD FY18 , we continued to benefit from the shift to subscription-based contracts and combined packaging of consumer products, resulting in a lower year-over-year decline in the first six months of FY18 as compared to the first six months of FY17. Operating income increased $33 million , or 7% , primarily due to the contribution from the LifeLock acquisition. The increase was partly offset by increased advertising and promotional expense of $122 million, largely related to LifeLock products. Net revenues by geographic region Percentage of revenue by geographic region presented below is based on the billing location of the customer. Total: $ 979 million Total: $ 1,240 million Total: $ 1,863 million Total: $ 2,415 million Note: Americas include U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan Our percentage of revenues from the Americas for Q2 FY18 and YTD FY18 increased compared to the year ago periods primarily as a result of LifeLock sales which are entirely U.S.-based. Our international sales are expected to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. As a result, we expect revenue to continue to be affected by foreign currency exchange rates as compared to the U.S. dollar. We are unable to predict the extent to which revenue in future periods will be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If international sales become 23 Table of Contents a greater portion of our total sales in the future, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may have a potentially greater impact on our revenue and operating results. Cost of revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of technical support costs, costs of billable services, fees to original equipment manufacturers under revenue-sharing agreements, hardware costs, and fulfillment costs, as well as intangible asset amortization expense, and is presented below in millions except for percentage of revenues. Q2 FY18 compared to Q2 FY17 Our cost of revenues increased $52 million primarily due to costs related to revenue of the acquired Blue Coat and LifeLock products, including $26 million of increased amortization of intangible assets primarily as a result of our Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions. YTD FY18 compared to YTD FY17 Our cost of revenues increased $160 million primarily due to costs related to revenue of the acquired Blue Coat and LifeLock products, including $75 million of increased amortization of intangible assets as a result of our acquisitions. Operating expenses The following charts are in millions except for percentage of revenues. 24 Table of Contents Q2 FY18 compared to Q2 FY17 In general, our operating expenses increased in Q2 FY18 compared to Q2 FY17 primarily as a result of increased headcount and facility costs associated with the acquisitions of Blue Coat and LifeLock during fiscal 2017. Sales and marketing expense increased $96 million primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including an increase of $59 million of advertising and promotional expense, largely related to LifeLock, and $26 million of stock-based compensation expense. Research and development expense increased $41 million primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including an increase of $29 million of stock-based compensation expense. General and administrative expense increased $15 million primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including an increase of $32 million of stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by a decrease of $26 million in acquisition related expenses. Our stock-based compensation expense included in operating expenses increased $87 million primarily due to the equity awards assumed in our acquisitions and the expected level of achievement for performance-based restricted stock units (PRUs). Our stock-based compensation expense may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors including the achievement levels of PRU performance conditions. Amortization of intangible assets increased $21 million primarily due to the amortization of intangible assets acquired in the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions. YTD FY18 compared to YTD FY17 In general, our operating expenses increased in YTD FY18 compared to YTD FY17 as a result of increased headcount and facility costs associated with the acquisitions of Blue Coat and LifeLock. Sales and marketing expense increased $238 million primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $122 million of advertising and promotional expense, largely related to LifeLock, and $55 million of stock-based compensation expense. Research and development expense increased $104 million primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including an increase of $55 million of stock-based compensation expense. General and administrative expense increased $80 million primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including an increase of $72 million of stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by a decrease of $30 million in acquisition related expenses. Our stock-based compensation expense included in operating expenses increased $182 million primarily due to the equity awards assumed in our acquisitions during fiscal 2017, and the expected level of achievement for PRUs. Amortization of intangible assets increased $66 million primarily due to the intangible assets acquired in the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions. 25 Table of Contents Restructuring, transition and other We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements. We have reduced headcount and closed certain facilities in connection with the restructuring plan and expect additional charges of approximately $165 million to $200 million related to headcount reductions and facilities closures in the second half of fiscal 2018. These actions are expected to be completed by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. During the first six months of FY18, we also incurred additional divestiture costs as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, as well as costs associated with our other transition and transformation programs including the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system and costs to automate business processes. On an annual basis, we expect these programs to generate net cost efficiencies and cost synergies which, when completed, will favorably impact our continuing operating expenses under our commitment to realize cost savings of $580 million , including cost synergies from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions. See Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our restructuring, transition and other costs. Non-operating expense , net The following charts are in millions. YTD FY18 compared to YTD FY17 Non-operating expense , net, increased $103 million primarily due to increased interest expense of $62 million , mainly related to the timing of the issuance of the borrowings in fiscal 2017. See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our debt. In addition, non-operating expense, net, increased by $20 million resulting from a net foreign currency loss for YTD FY18 compared to a net gain for YTD FY17 and a $17 million reduction in other income due to the absence of income from transition service agreements related to our Veritas divestiture in YTD FY18 compared to $17 million in income from such arrangements in YTD FY17 . Provision for income taxes The following charts are in millions except for percentages. 26 Table of Contents Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for Q2 FY18 and YTD FY18 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, the research and development tax credit, and excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, partially offset by various permanent differences. Our effective tax rate for income (loss) from continuing operations for Q2 FY17 and YTD FY17 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, offset by various permanent differences and tax expense related to the loss of tax attributes due to restructuring activities. For Q2 FY18 and YTD FY18 , we recorded an income tax benefit on discontinued operations of $ 4 million and income tax expense on discontinued operations of $ 37 million , respectively. For Q2 FY17 and YTD FY17 , we recorded income tax expense on discontinued operations of $ 118 million and $ 134 million , respectively. See Note 13 for further details regarding discontinued operations. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and international tax jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our international earnings were generated from subsidiaries organized in Ireland and Singapore. Our results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent that our geographical mix of income becomes more weighted toward jurisdictions with higher tax rates and would be favorably affected to the extent the relative geographic mix shifts to lower tax jurisdictions. Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year. Although potential resolution of uncertain tax positions involve multiple tax periods and jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to these audits could decrease, whether by payment, release, or a combination of both, in the next 12 months by $ 13 million , which could reduce our income tax provision and therefore benefit the resulting effective tax rate. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing income tax controversies and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Sources and uses of cash We have historically relied on cash flow from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt, and the sale of a business, for our liquidity needs. As of September 29, 2017 , we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.0 billion , of which $1.4 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries. We have provided U.S. deferred taxes on a portion of our undistributed foreign earnings sufficient to address the incremental U.S. tax that would be due if we needed such portion of these funds to support our operations in the U.S. We also have an unused credit facility of $1.0 billion resulting in a liquidity position of approximately $3.0 billion as of September 29, 2017 . Our principal cash requirements primarily consist of acquisitions, operating expenses, payment of taxes, capital expenditures, and contractual payments of principal and interest on debt. Also, we may engage, from time to time, in the open market purchase of our notes prior to their maturity. Furthermore, our capital allocation strategy contemplates a quarterly cash dividend and an on-going evaluation of our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. Cash flows The following charts summarize, for the periods indicated, selected items in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for YTD FY17 and YTD FY18 , in millions. 27 Table of Contents Continuing operating activities Our primary source of cash from continuing operating activities has been cash collections from our customers. Due to seasonality, our orders are generally higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our first and second fiscal quarters. We therefore expect cash inflows from continuing operating activities to be affected by fluctuations in billings and timing of collections. Our primary uses of cash from our continuing operating activities include payments for compensation and related costs, payments to our resellers and distribution partners, payments for income taxes, and other general corporate expenditures. The increase in cash from continuing operating activities in YTD FY18 compared to YTD FY17 was primarily due to decreased tax payments, net of refunds, of $822 million mainly related to income taxes paid during the first quarter of fiscal 2017, as well as a smaller decrease in deferred revenue of $ 186 million , partially offset by decreased income from continuing operations, adjusted for non-cash items. Restructuring Plan. We initiated a restructuring plan in fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements. We expect to reduce headcount and close certain facilities in connection with this restructuring plan. The total remaining cash payments in connection with the restructuring plan are expected to be approximately $185 million to $220 million , which we expect to be primarily incurred in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2018. See Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our restructuring plan. Continuing investing activities Our investing cash flows consist primarily of acquisitions and purchases of short-term investments. The increase in continuing investing activities in YTD FY18 compared to YTD FY17 was primarily due to a $4.2 billion decrease in cash used for acquisitions reflecting $361 million used in YTD FY18 , compared to $4.5 billion used in YTD FY17 for the Blue Coat acquisition. In addition, in YTD FY18 we purchased $201 million of short-term investments. Short-term investments. In order to achieve greater investment diversification and higher yields while maintaining our objectives of preservation of capital, liquidity, and safety. Acquisitions. During Q2 FY18 we completed our acquisitions of Fireglass and Skycure as well as other smaller acquisitions for a total of $361 million, net of cash acquired. Sale of Website Security and related Public Key Infrastructure Solutions. On August 2, 2017, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our WSS and PKI solutions. On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our WSS and PKI solutions to DigiCert. Based on the terms of the definitive agreement and subject to adjustment as provided therein, we received consideration of approximately $960 million in cash and approximately a 27% equity interest in the common stock of DigiCert. The transaction proceeds, net of taxes, fees and other related costs, are expected to be primarily used to repay debt. Continuing financing activities Our financing cash flows consist primarily of issuances and repayments of debt, payment of dividends and dividend equivalents to stockholders, and tax payments related to the settlement of restricted stock units (RSUs). The change in continuing financing activities in YTD FY18 compared to YTD FY17 was primarily due to reduced borrowings of $5.0 billion , net of issuance costs, increased debt repayments of $2.0 billion , a settlement of our dissenting shareholder liability of $68 million related to the LifeLock acquisition and increased tax payments related to the settlement of RSUs of $49 million . Borrowings. Proceeds from and repayments of borrowings fluctuate from year to year based on the amounts paid to fund acquisitions, and debt repayments. The charts below set forth the total principal amount of our debt issued, debt repayments and the amount of unused credit facility for YTD FY17 and YTD FY18 , in billions. As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time in the future make optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors, such as market 28 Table of Contents conditions. During October 2017, subsequent to our Q2 FY18 , we prepaid $130 million and $250 million in principal amounts of our Senior Term Loan A-3 and Senior Term Loan A-1, respectively. Interest payments on $2.3 billion of our variable-rate borrowings are subject to change based on market interest rates. See Note 8 and Note 14 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our debt and debt prepayments made subsequent to Q2 FY18 , respectively. Dividends. On November 1, 2017 , we declared a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid on December 13, 2017 , to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 20, 2017 . All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all shares of unvested restricted stock and performance-based stock as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively. Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. See Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our dividends and dividend equivalents. Contractual obligations Except for the repayment of our Senior Notes, settlement of our Senior Term Facility, related interest payments on borrowings, and purchase obligations, there were no significant changes during the six months ended September 29, 2017 to the contractual obligations disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, set forth in Part II, Item 7, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 . The table below sets forth these changes as of September 29, 2017 , but does not update the other line items in the contractual obligations table that appear in the section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K described above: Payments Due by Fiscal Period (In millions) Total Remainder of 2018 2019 - 2020 2021 - 2022 Thereafter Debt (1) $ 6,300 $ 130 $ 1,670 $ 3,000 $ 1,500 Interest payments on debt (2) 931 119 382 230 200 Purchase obligations (3) 278 223 53 2 Total $ 7,509 $ 472 $ 2,105 $ 3,232 $ 1,700 (1) See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our debt. (2) Interest payments were calculated based on the contractual terms of the related Senior Notes, Convertible Senior Notes and Senior Term Facilities. Interest on variable rate debt was calculated using the interest rate in effect as of September 29, 2017 . See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Senior Notes, Convertible Senior Notes and Senior Term Facilities. (3) These amounts are associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services generally including agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The table above also includes agreements to purchase goods or services that have cancellation provisions requiring little or no payment. The amounts under such contracts are included in the table above because management believes that cancellation of these contracts is unlikely and we expect to make future cash payments according to the contract terms or in similar amounts for similar materials. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers. It is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements and we have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the sale of Veritas, we assigned several leases to Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries. As a condition to consenting to the assignments, certain lessors required us to agree to indemnify the lessor under the applicable lease with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries breach of payment obligations under the terms of the lease. As with our other indemnification obligations discussed above and in general, it is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification 29 Table of Contents agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As with our other indemnification obligations, such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses and to date, generally under our real estate obligations, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations under our leases and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We provide limited product warranties and the majority of our software license agreements contain provisions that indemnify licensees of our software from damages and costs resulting from claims alleging that our software infringes on the intellectual property rights of a third party. Historically, payments made under these provisions have been immaterial. We monitor the conditions that are subject to indemnification to identify if a loss has occurred. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the six months ended September 29, 2017 , as compared to those disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 . Recently issued authoritative guidance not yet adopted Revenue Recognition - Contracts with Customers. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new authoritative guidance for revenue from contracts with customers. The standards core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies will need to use more judgment and make more estimates than under current guidance. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. In March 2016, the FASB clarified implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. In April 2016, the FASB issued guidance related to identifying performance obligations and licensing which reduces the cost and complexity of applying certain aspects of the guidance both at implementation and on an ongoing basis. The new guidance may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented (retrospective) or retrospectively with cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings as of the date of adoption (modified retrospective). We expect to adopt the new standard on a modified retrospective basis in our first quarter of fiscal 2019. We are continuing to assess the impact of this standard on our financial position, results of operations and related disclosures and have not yet determined whether the effect will be material. We do not expect that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our operating cash flows. We believe that the new guidance will impact our following policies and disclosures: the pattern and timing of the recognition of revenue for certain license fees; the allocation of revenue across performance obligations in multiple element arrangements; and required disclosures, including information about the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations and expected timing of revenue recognition. We will continue to assess the impact of new guidance including any changes to systems, processes and the control environment as we work through the adoption, and there remain areas still to be fully concluded upon. Financial Instruments - Recognition and Measurement. In January 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on financial instruments. The new guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure. The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted under limited circumstances but we do not intend to adopt the provisions of the new guidance early. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020. Early adoption is permitted but we do not plan to adopt the provisions of the new guidance early. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We are currently in the assessment phase to determine the adoption methodology and are evaluating the impact of this new standard on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report. We are evaluating the impact to our consolidated financial statements as it relates to other aspects of the business. Credit Losses. In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking expected loss model. Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than 30 Table of Contents reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory. In October 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers, excluding inventory, at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under current U.S. GAAP. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2019, and requires a modified retrospective transition method. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance and anticipate it will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Although there are several other new accounting pronouncements issued or proposed by the FASB that we have adopted or will adopt, as applicable, we do not believe any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, operating results or disclosures.