Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto, which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); as well as the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Risk factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010 and other SEC filings. We maintain a web site at www.generalfinance.com that makes available, through a link to the SECs EDGAR system website, our filings that we have made with the SEC. References to we, us, our or the Company refer to General Finance Corporation, a Delaware corporation (GFN), and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including, GFN Mobile Storage Inc., a Delaware corporation (GFNMS), GFN North America Corp., a Delaware corporation (GFNNA), and its subsidiary Pac-Van, Inc., an Indiana corporation (which, combined with GFNMS, is referred to herein as Pac-Van), GFN U.S. Australasia Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (GFN U.S), its subsidiary GFN Australasia Holdings Pty Limited, an Australian corporation (GFN Holdings), its subsidiary GFN Australasia Finance Pty Limited, an Australian corporation (GFN Finance), and its subsidiary RWA Holdings Pty Limited, an Australian corporation (RWA), and its subsidiaries. GFN Holdings and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as Royal Wolf. Background and Overview We incorporated in Delaware on October 14, 2005 and completed our initial public offering (the IPO) in April 2006. On September 13, 2007 (September 14 in Australia), we acquired Royal Wolf by purchasing the outstanding shares of RWA. The purchase price paid to the former shareholders of RWA was $64.3 million, which consisted of cash, the issuance to Bison Capital Australia, L.P., (Bison Capital), one of the sellers, of shares of common stock of GFN U.S. and the issuance of a note to Bison Capital. Following the acquisition, we own 86.2% of the outstanding capital stock of GFN U.S. and Bison Capital owns 13.8% of the outstanding capital stock of GFN U.S. Royal Wolf leases and sells storage containers, portable container buildings and freight containers in Australia and New Zealand, which is considered geographically by the Company to be the Asia-Pacific area. On October 1, 2008, we acquired Pac-Van through a merger with Mobile Office Acquisition Corp. (MOAC), the parent of Pac-Van, and our wholly-owned subsidiary formed in July 2008, GFNNA. In addition to assuming Pac-Vans senior and other debt, we paid $46.5 million to the stockholders of MOAC by a combination of cash, GFN restricted common stock and a 20-month subordinated promissory note. Pac-Van leases and sells modular buildings, mobile offices and storage containers in the United States. The economic downturn in the United States, particularly in the construction -related industries, and the global economy in general has had an adverse impact on the Companys operating results. We responded by reducing indebtedness, personnel costs, capital expenditures, discretionary spending and curtailing acquisition activity. We continuously monitor our performance and customer demand levels by identifying and applying best practices to make our business more efficient. Accordingly, we may continue to reduce headcount or employee compensation in the areas in which we believe we can achieve greater efficiencies without affecting customer service or our sales efforts. While this is our approach for the foreseeable future, our long-term strategy and business plan is to acquire and operate rental services and specialty finance businesses in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific area. Our two operating subsidiaries, Royal Wolf and Pac-Van, lease and sell storage container products, modular buildings and mobile offices through eighteen customer service centers (CSCs) in Australia, six CSCs in New Zealand and twenty-six branch locations across eighteen states in the United States. As of September 30, 2010, we had 229 and 187 employees and 27,437 and 10,782 lease fleet units in the Asia-Pacific area and United States, respectively. We do business in two distinct, but related industries, modular space and mobile storage, which we collectively refer to as the portable services industry. Our revenue mix was approximately 54% sales and 46% leasing during the quarter ended September 30, 2010. 20 Table of Contents Our products include the following: Modular Space Modular Buildings . Also known as manufactured buildings, modular buildings provide customers with additional space and are often modified to customer specifications. Modular buildings range in size from 1,000 to more than 30,000 square feet and may be highly customized. Mobile Offices and Portable Container Buildings . Also known as trailers or construction trailers, mobile offices are re-locatable units with aluminum or wood exteriors on wood (or steel) frames on a steel carriage fitted with axles, allowing for an assortment of add-ons to provide comfortable and convenient temporary space solutions. We also offer portable container buildings, ground level offices (GLOs), or office containers (which are either modified or specifically-manufactured shipping containers that are used as mobile offices), and in-plant units, which are manufactured structures that provide self-contained office space with maximum design flexibility. Mobile Storage Storage Containers. Storage containers consist of new and used shipping containers that provide a flexible, low cost alternative to warehousing, while offering greater security, convenience, and immediate accessibility. Our storage products include general purpose dry storage containers, refrigerated containers and specialty containers in a range of standard and modified sizes, designs and storage capacities. Specialty containers include blast-resistant units, hoarding units and hazardous-waste units. We also offer storage vans, also known as storage trailers or dock-height trailers. Freight Containers. Freight containers are specifically designed for transport of products by road and rail. Our freight container products include curtain-side, refrigerated and bulk cargo containers, together with a range of standard and industry-specific dry freight containers. Quarter Ended September 30, 2010 (QE FY 2011) Compared to Quarter September 30, 2009 (QE FY 2010) The following compares our QE FY 2011 results of operations with our QE FY 2010 results of operations. Revenues. Revenues increased approximately 24% to $43.5 million in QE FY 2011 from $35.2 in QE FY 2010. This included an increase of $0.6 million, or 4%, in revenues at Pac-Van and a $7.7 million increase, or 37%, in revenues at Royal Wolf. The translation effect of the average currency exchange rate, driven by the strengthening in the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar in QE FY 2011 versus QE FY 2010, caused a portion of the increase in total revenues at Royal Wolf which otherwise would have shown an increase of 30%. Since the second half of our fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 (FY 2009), the economic downturn in both our geographic segments resulted in a significant reduction in our overall business, particularly in the construction-related sector in the United States and in the mining and defense and transportation sectors in the Asia-Pacific area. In QE FY 2011, when compared to QE FY 2010, revenues in these sectors decreased by $1.1 million in the United States, while the Asia-Pacific area improved by $2.7 million. Sales and leasing revenues represented 54% and 46% of total revenues in QE FY 2011 and 47% and 53% of total revenues in QE FY 2010, respectively. Sales during QE FY 2011 amounted to $23.4 million, compared to $16.6 million during QE FY 2010; representing an increase of $6.8 million, or 41%. This included an increase of $1.1 million, or 24%, in sales at Pac-Van and a $5.7 million increase, or 47%, in sales at Royal Wolf. The translation effect of the average currency exchange rate, driven by the strengthening in the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar in QE FY 2011 versus QE FY 2010, caused a portion of the increase in total revenues at Royal Wolf which otherwise would have shown an increase of 42%. In QE FY 2011, sales in the Asia-Pacific area increased $2.2 million in our national accounts group (or non-retail operations), primarily because of the enhanced activity in the mining and defense and transportation sectors; and increased $3.5 million in our CSC retail operations from QE FY 2010. In the United States, the higher sales revenues in QE FY 2011 over QE FY 2010 was due to modular building sales (primarily to projects for educational and health care facilities) and the related services for delivery and installation increasing by $2.2 million; offset somewhat by reduced sales in containers and mobile offices. The $2.2 million revenue increase at Royal Wolf in the national accounts group resulted from a $1.1 million increase unit sales, a $0.9 million increase due to higher prices and a favorable foreign exchange rate effect of $0.2 million. This increase included the sales of 44 mining container units (versus six units in QE FY 2010) that remained in inventory as a result of a cancelled leasing order in FY 2009. There are 81 of these units available for sale at September 30, 2010, at a cost of approximately $19,000 each, which we anticipate selling in the range of $20,000 to 22,000 per unit. 21 Table of Contents The $3.5 million revenue increase at Royal Wolf in the retail operations resulted from a $1.0 million increase in unit sales, a $1.3 million increase due to higher prices and a favorable foreign exchange rate effect of $1.2 million. The higher sales revenues were primarily due to increased demand in our CSCs in Western Australia and the Northern Territory because of increased activities in the oil exploration and defense sectors in those regions. Leasing revenues during QE FY 2011 totaled $20.1 million, as compared to $18.6 million during QE FY 2010, representing an increase of $1.5 million, or 8%. Leasing revenues decreased at Pac-Van by $0.5 million, or 5%, and increased by $2.0 million, or 23%, at Royal Wolf. The translation effect of the average currency exchange rate, driven by the strengthening in the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar in QE FY 2011 versus QE FY 2010, caused a portion of the increase in total revenues at Royal Wolf which otherwise would have shown an increase of 13%. The favorable foreign exchange rate effect at Royal Wolf in QE FY 2011 totaled $0.8 million ($0.7 million and $0.1 million in our retail business and national accounts group, respectively) from QE FY 2010. At Royal Wolf, average utilization in the retail operations was 86% during QE FY 2011, as compared to 76% during QE FY 2010; and average utilization in the national accounts group operations was 72% during QE FY 2011, as compared to 64% during QE FY 2010. Overall average utilization at Royal Wolf was 82% in QE FY 2011 and 71% in QE FY 2010. The average monthly lease rate of containers in both QE FY 2011 and QE FY 2010 for Royal Wolf was AUS$152. We believe the primary reason we were able to both increase our overall average utilization and maintain our composite monthly lease rate between the periods at Royal Wolf was because of our position as the only national company in the mobile storage industry in Australia and New Zealand. However, we continually review each local market in which we do business to determine if local factors justify increases or decreases in lease rates and the effect these changes would have on utilization and revenues. At Pac-Van, average utilization rates were 81%, 66% and 73% and monthly lease rates were $97, $222 and $857 for containers, mobile offices and modular units, respectively, during QE FY 2011; as compared to 74%, 63% and 75% and $97, $243 and $965 for containers, mobile offices and modular units in QE FY 2010, respectively. The lower monthly lease rates resulted from lower demand and increased competition, particularly in the construction-related industry in which Pac-Van has currently over 30% of its business and historically has had over 40%. Pac-Van is required to maintain a minimum composite utilization rate, as defined, of over 60% at each quarter end. At September 30, 2010, the composite utilization rate was 72%. The average value of the Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar strengthened during QE FY 2011 as compared to QE FY 2010. The average currency exchange rate of one Australian dollar during QE FY 2011 was $0.90286 U.S. dollar compared to $0.83244 U.S. dollar during QE FY 2011. This fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates resulted in an increase to our total revenues at Royal Wolf of $2.2 million in QE FY 2011 when compared to QE FY 2010. Cost of Sales . Cost of sales (which is the cost related to our sales revenues only and exclusive of the line items discussed below) increased by a net $5.1 million to $17.6 million during QE FY 2011 from $12.5 million during QE FY 2010, which was proportionate with the increase in sales of $6.8 million. Our gross profit percentage from sales revenues during both periods was 25%. Direct Costs of Leasing Operations and Selling and General Expenses . Direct costs of leasing operations (which excludes depreciation and amortization) and selling and general expenses aggregately increased, by $2.1 million, to $17.5 million during QE FY 2011 from $15.4 million during QE FY 2010. However, as a percentage of revenues, these operating expenses decreased to 40% in QE FY 2011 from 44% in QE FY 2010, reflecting our cost-cutting measures implemented during the second half of FY 2009. This cost cutting involved: (1) salaries and related payroll costs as a result of staff reductions and lower bonuses, (2) less discretionary spending and (3) better control of our professional costs. In general, with respect to our operating segments, Pac-Vans operating expenses as a percentage of revenues are higher than Royal Wolfs percentage as: (1) Royal Wolfs mix of QE FY 2011 sales to leasing revenue at 63% is higher than the 37% at Pac-Van, (2) Pac-Van has an office modular fleet which is a lower margin product line; and (3) Pac-Van has less density in its retail markets. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization decreased by $0.6 million to $4.7 million during QE FY 2011 from $5.3 million during QE FY 2010. The decrease was primarily due to an adjustment of $0.5 million in QE FY 2010 related to the amortization period of certain intangible assets that were recorded in connection with our acquisition of Royal Wolf in September 2007. 22 Table of Contents Interest Expense . Interest expense of $4.3 million in QE FY 2011 was $0.6 million higher than the $3.7 million in QE FY 2010. This was comprised of an increase of $0.3 million at both Royal Wolf and in the United States. Royal Wolfs weighted-average interest rate (without the effect of the interest rate swap and option contracts) was 11.2% in QE FY 2011, as compared to 10.0% in QE FY 2010; and the weighted-average rate in the United States was 6.0% in QE FY 2011, as compared to 5.2% in QE FY 2010. Foreign Currency Exchange . We have certain U.S. dollar-denominated debt at Royal Wolf, including intercompany borrowings, which are remeasured at each financial reporting date with the impact of the remeasurement being recorded in our consolidated statements of operations. Unrealized gains and losses resulting from such remeasurement due to changes in the Australian exchange rate to the U.S. dollar could have a significant impact in our reported results of operations, as well as any realized gains and losses from the payments on such U.S. dollar-denominated debt and intercompany borrowings. As noted above, the average value of the U.S. dollar against the Australian dollar weakened during QE FY 2011 as compared to QE FY 2010 and from June 30, 2010 to September 30, 2010. The currency exchange rate of one Australian dollar at June 30, 2010 was $0.8567 U.S. dollar compared to $0.9701 U.S. dollar at September 30, 2010. In QE FY 2011, net unrealized and realized foreign exchange gains totaled $3.3 million and $27,000, respectively, and net unrealized losses on forward currency exchange contracts totaled $0.9 million. In QE FY 2010, net unrealized and realized foreign exchange gains totaled $2.3 million and $0.1 million, respectively, and net unrealized gains on forward currency exchange contracts totaled $0.2 million in QE FY 2010. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 37.8% and 36.5% during QE FY 2011 and QE FY 2010, respectively. The effective rate in both periods is greater than the U.S. federal rate of 34% primarily because of state income taxes from the filing of tax returns in multiple U.S. states and because a portion of the depreciation and amortization on the fixed and intangible assets recorded in the Pac-Van acquisition is not deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes, offset somewhat by the favorable income tax impact of the amortization of goodwill acquired in acquisitions made in the Asia-Pacific area, which is deductible for U.S. income tax reporting purposes. At June 30, 2010, we had a U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately $46.7 million, which expires if unused during our fiscal years ending June 30, 2020 2030. Noncontrolling Interest. Noncontrolling interest, which represents Bison Capitals 13.8% interest in Royal Wolf, was a charge of $0.6 million in both QE FY 2011 and QE FY 2010. As discussed in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we commenced accreting the redemption value of the Bison Capital put option over the period from July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2011. Net Income Attributable to Common Stockholders. We had net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.6 million in QE FY 2011, as compared to $34,000 in QE FY 2010, primarily as a result of increased profitability in the Asia-Pacific area, offset somewhat by higher interest expense. Measures not in Accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP) Earnings before interest, income taxes, impairment, depreciation and amortization and other non-operating costs and income (EBITDA) and adjusted EBITDA are supplemental measures of our performance that are not required by, or presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These measures are not measurements of our financial performance under U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to net income, income from operations or any other performance measures derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP or as an alternative to cash flow from operating, investing or financing activities as a measure of liquidity. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-U.S. GAAP measure. We calculate adjusted EBITDA to eliminate the impact of certain items we do not consider to be indicative of the performance of our ongoing operations. You are encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and whether you consider each to be appropriate. In addition, in evaluating adjusted EBITDA, you should be aware that in the future, we may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in the presentation of adjusted EBITDA. Our presentation of adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. We present adjusted EBITDA because we consider it to be an important supplemental measure of our performance and because we believe it is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies in our industry, many of which present EBITDA and a form of our adjusted EBITDA when reporting their results. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under U.S. GAAP. Because of these limitations, adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business or to reduce our indebtedness. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our U.S. GAAP results and using adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. The following table shows our adjusted EBITDA and the reconciliation from net income (loss) (in thousands): 23 Table of Contents Quarter Ended September 30, 2009 2010 Net income $ 648 $ 1,195 Add (deduct) Provision for income taxes 372 726 Foreign currency exchange gain and other (2,593 ) (2,427 ) Interest expense 3,707 4,281 Interest income (59 ) (105 ) Depreciation and amortization 5,257 4,672 Share-based compensation expense 246 173 Adjusted EBITDA $ 7,578 $ 8,515 Our business is capital intensive, so from an operating level we focus primarily on EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA to measure our results. These measures provide us with a means to track internally generated cash from which we can fund our interest expense and fleet growth objectives. In managing our business, we regularly compare our adjusted EBITDA margins on a monthly basis. As capital is invested in our established branch locations, we achieve higher adjusted EBITDA margins on that capital than we achieve on capital invested to establish a new branch (or CSC), because our fixed costs are already in place in connection with the established branches. The fixed costs are those associated with yard and delivery equipment, as well as advertising, sales, marketing and office expenses. With a new market or branch, we must first fund and absorb the start-up costs for setting up the new branch facility, hiring and developing the management and sales team and developing our marketing and advertising programs. A new branch will have low adjusted EBITDA margins in its early years until the number of units on rent increases. Because of our higher operating margins on incremental lease revenue, which we realize on a branch-by-branch basis when, the branch achieves leasing revenues sufficient to cover the branchs fixed costs, leasing revenues in excess of the break-even amount produces large increases in profitability. Conversely, absent significant growth in leasing revenues, the adjusted EBITDA margin at a branch will remain relatively flat on a period by period comparative basis. Liquidity and Financial Condition Each of our two operating units, Royal Wolf and Pac Van, fund their operations substantially through secured bank credit facilities that require compliance with various covenants. These covenants require them to, among other things, maintain certain levels of interest coverage, EBITDA (as defined), unit utilization rate and overall leverage. In addition, we have certain obligations and subordinated notes payable to Bison Capital (with our purchase of Royal Wolf) and a subordinated note payable by GFN to Laminar Direct Capital, L.L.C. (Laminar), that was issued in connection with the refinancing at Pac-Van in QE FY 2011 (see below). We also have a $1.0 million credit facility with Union Bank at GFN under which no borrowings were outstanding as of September 30, 2010. The economic downturn in the U.S., particularly in the construction-related industries, and the global economy in general have adversely affected our operating results. To offset this adverse effect, we undertook cost-reduction and other measures to reduce our indebtedness and continue complying with the financial loan covenants of our senior lenders. During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, we amended our senior credit agreements at Royal Wolf to, among other things, extend required principal payments during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011 and establish financial covenants at the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited (ANZ) senior credit facility at more favorable levels. In addition, on June 25, 2010 we completed a rights offering for the issuance and sale of units at $1.50 each (with each unit consisting of one share of GFN common stock and a three-year warrant to purchase 0.5 additional shares of GFN common stock at an exercise price of $4.00 per share). We utilized $4,800,000 of the approximately $5,900,000 net proceeds form the rights offering in the refinancing at Pac-Van in QE FY 2011 (see below). Prior to July 16, 2010, Pac-Van had a senior credit facility, as amended, with a syndicate of four financial institutions led by Bank of America, N.A. (BOA), as administrative and collateral agent, and a $25,000,000 senior subordinated secured note payable to SPV Capital Funding, L.L.C. (SPV). On July 16, 2010, we entered into several agreements relating to: (a) a new $85,000,000 senior secured revolving credit facility at Pac-Van with a syndicate led by PNC Bank, National Association (PNC) and including Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Union Bank (the PNC Credit Facility); and (b) a new $15,000,000 senior subordinated note with Laminar issued by GFN (the Laminar Note). Borrowings under the PNC Credit Facility and proceeds from both the issuance of the Laminar Note and our rights offering (see above) were used to prepay in full all borrowings under the BOA credit facility and the $25,000,000 senior subordinated secured note payable to SPV. This refinancing also resulted in the establishment of less restrictive covenants through the PNC Credit Facility. The PNC Credit Facility matures on January 16, 2013 and the Laminar Note matures on July 16, 2013. 24 Table of Contents Reference is made to Notes 3 and 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding our rights offering and indebtedness. These actions should allow us to be able to satisfy its long-term debt and other liquidity requirements and to comply with our financial loan covenants for the foreseeable future. However, if operating results worsen we may eventually be unable to comply with the covenants governing our indebtedness; which may require waivers of covenant compliance, amendments to such agreements or alternative borrowing arrangements. There is no assurance that the senior lenders would consent to such an amendment or waiver in the event of noncompliance; or that such consent would not be conditioned upon the receipt of a cash payment, revised principal payout terms, increased interest rates, or restrictions in the expansion of the credit facilities. Nor is there any assurance that senior lenders would not exercise rights that would be available to them, including, among other things, demanding payment of outstanding borrowings. As of September 30, 2010, our required principal and other obligations payments (including Bison Capitals put option) for the twelve months ending September 30, 2011 and the subsequent three twelve-month periods are as follows (in thousands): Twelve Months Ending September 30, 2011 2012 2013 2014 ANZ (a) $ 24,219 $ 55,012 $ 636 $ 619 Bison Capital subordinated notes 5,500 16,236 Bison Capital put option 12,850 PNC Credit Facility (b) 72,511 Laminar Note (c) 15,000 Other 82 80 72 73 $ 42,651 $ 55,092 $ 104,455 $ 692 (a) Reflects the overdraft facilities totaling $4,183 as due within the next twelve months. These should continually roll over and would be fully repaid at the maturity of the ANZ credit facility in September 2012. (b) Scheduled to mature in January 2013. (c) Scheduled to mature in July 2013. As reflected above, unless conditions significantly change, a company-wide capital restructuring will be required some time before or during our fiscal year ending June 30, 2013, as most of the outstanding indebtedness matures during this period. In the foreseeable future, however, we have three principal objectives with respect to our liquidity: 1. Reduce overall leverage in each operating entity by minimizing capital expenditures and using operating cash flow to pay interest and reduce debt. 2. Operate the businesses to meet all loan covenant requirements. 3. Generate sufficient capital, either through operations or external sources, including debt or equity, to meet loan maturities and the potential payment of the Bison Capital put option. As a part of achieving these objectives, and depending on our operating performance, we may require external financing in the foreseeable future to pay the $5.5 million due Bison Capital in July 2011 and the Bison Capital put option exercisable in September 2011. This put option could be paid, with Bison Capitals approval, by a combination of cash and common stock. While we believe such external financing could be derived from various sources, including private individual or institutional investors, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising the required capital under favorable terms and conditions, if at all. We currently do not pay a dividend on our common stock and do not intend on doing so in the foreseeable future. Cash Flow for QE FY 2011 Compared to QE FY 2010 Our leasing business is capital intensive, and we acquire leasing assets before they generate revenues, cash flow and earnings. These leasing assets have very long useful lives and require relatively minimal maintenance expenditures. Most of the capital we deploy into our leasing business historically has been used to expand our operations geographically, to increase the number of units available for lease at our retail locations and to add to the breadth of our product mix. Our operations have generated annual cash flow that exceeds our reported earnings, which would include, even in profitable periods, the deferral of income taxes caused by accelerated depreciation that is used for tax accounting. 25 Table of Contents As we discussed above, our principal source of capital for operations consists of funds available from the senior secured credit facility with ANZ and the PNC Credit Facility. We also finance a smaller portion of capital requirements through finance leases and lease-purchase contracts, have a $1.0 million line of credit with Union Bank and have outstanding senior subordinated notes with Bison Capital and SPV. Supplemental information pertaining to our combined sources and uses of cash is presented in the table below (in thousands): Quarter Ended September 30, 2009 2010 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,720 $ 3,702 Net cash used by investing activities $ (834 ) $ (1,352 ) Net cash used by financing activities $ (8,153 ) $ (6,727 ) Operating activities. Our operations provided net cash flow of $3.7 million during QE FY 2011, a decrease of $2.0 million from the $5.7 million provided during QE FY 2010. This was primarily because cash flow from the management of operating assets and liabilities was $2.8 million less in QE FY 2011 from QE FY 2010 due to increased inventory levels in the Asia-Pacific area, offset somewhat by increased net income to $1.2 million in QE FY 2011from $0.6 million in QE FY 2010. In both QE FY 2011 and QE FY 2010, operating cash flow was enhanced by over $5.0 million for non-cash adjustments of depreciation and amortization on fixed and intangible assets; and was offset somewhat for reductions of unrealized foreign exchange gains totaling $3.3 million and $2.3 million, respectively. Historically, our cash provided by operating activities is also enhanced by the deferral of most income taxes due to the rapid tax depreciation rate of our assets and our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards. Investing Activities. Net cash used by investing activities was $1.4 million during QE FY 2011, as compared to $0.8 million used during QE FY 2010. Purchases of property, plant and equipment, or rolling stock, were approximately $0.7 million in QE FY 2011 and $0.3 million in QE FY 2010; and net capital expenditures of lease fleet (purchases, net of proceeds from sales of lease fleet) were under $1.0 million during both periods. In the current economic environment, we have been minimizing our capital expenditures, particularly in the United States, to reduce our overall leverage and anticipate our near term investing activities will be primarily focused on acquiring (a) specific types of units that are not in our fleet and are placed on-rent, (b) technology and communication improvements for our telephone and computer systems and (c) delivery equipment whereby we would derive improved customer service levels and cost savings. The amount of cash that we use during any period in investing activities is almost entirely within managements discretion. Other than a preferred supply agreement, which requires us to purchase up to 5,000 containers if offered to us, and the put and call options pertaining to Bison Capitals minority interest of 13.8% in GFN U.S. (see Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), we have no significant long-term contracts or other arrangements pursuant to which we may be required to purchase at a certain price or a minimum amount of goods or services. Financing Activities. Net cash used by financing activities was $6.7 million during QE FY 2011, as compared to $8.2 million provided during QE FY 2010. In QE FY 2011, we reduced our outstanding borrowings by $5.4 million, as compared to $7.9 million in QE FY 2010, and incurred deferred financing costs of $1.3 million during the refinancing at Pac-Van in July 2010 (see Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements). Since the second half of our fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, we have made debt reduction a principal objective. Asset Management Receivables and inventories (including foreign translation effect) were $24.3 million and $23.5 million at September 30, 2010 and $25.7 million and $19.1 million at June 30, 2010, respectively. Inventory levels have increased at September 30, 2010 from June 30, 2010, due primarily to the improving economy in the Asia-Pacific area; but effective asset management remains a significant focus, as we strive to continue to apply appropriate credit and collection controls and reduce inventory levels to maintain and enhance cash flow and profitability. At September 30, 2010, days sales outstanding (DSO) in trade receivables were 46 days and 48 days for Royal Wolf and Pac-Van, as compared to 43 days and 53 days at June 30, 2010, respectively. The net book value of our total lease fleet increased (including foreign translation effect) from $188.4 million at June 30, 2010 to $198.9 million at September 30, 2010. At September 30, 2010, we had 38,219 units (15,854 units in retail operations in Australia, 6,769 units in national account group operations in Australia, 4,814 units in New Zealand, which are considered retail; and 10,782 units in the United States) in our lease fleet, as compared 37,862 units (15,945 units in retail operations in Australia, 6,444 units in national account group operations in Australia, 4,538 units in New Zealand, which are considered retail; and 10,935 units in the United States) at June 30, 2010. At those dates , 30,533 units (13,566 units in retail operations in Australia, 4,822 units in national account group operations in Australia , 4,361 units in New Zealand, which are considered retail; and 7,784 units in the United States) and 29,735 units (12,997 units in retail operations in Australia, 4,875 units in national account group operations in Australia, 3,954 units in New Zealand, which are considered retail; and 7,909 units in the United States) were on lease, respectively. 26 Table of Contents In the United States, the lease fleet was comprised of 3,659 containers , 6,136 mobile offices and 987 modular units at September 30, 2010; and 3,800 containers, 6,144 mobile offices and 991 modular units at June 30, 2010. At those dates, in the United States, units on lease were comprised of 2,997 containers , 4,079 mobile offices and 708 modular units; and 3,205 containers, 3,973 mobile offices and 731 modular units, respectively. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not maintain any off-balance sheet transactions, arrangements, obligations or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or others that are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Seasonality Although demand from certain customer segments can be seasonal, our operations as a whole are not seasonal to any significant extent. We experience a reduction in sales volumes at Royal Wolf during Australias summer holiday break from mid-December to the end of January, followed by February being a short working day month. However, this reduction in sales typically is counterbalanced by the increased lease revenues derived from the removals or moving and storage industry, which experiences its seasonal peak of personnel relocations during this same summer holiday break. Demand from some of Pac-Vans customers can be seasonal, such as in the construction industry, which tends to increase leasing activity in the first and fourth quarters; while customers in the retail industry tend to lease more units in the second quarter. Impact of Inflation We believe that inflation has not had a material effect on our business. However, during periods of rising prices and, in particular when the prices increase rapidly or to levels significantly higher than normal, we may incur significant increases in our operating costs and may not be able to pass price increases through to our customers in a timely manner, which could harm our future results of operations. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. On an ongoing basis, we re-evaluate all of our estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may materially differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions as additional information becomes available in future periods. We believe the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We are required to estimate the collectability of our trade receivables. Accordingly, we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses that may result from the inability of our customers to make required payments. On a recurring basis, we evaluate a variety of factors in assessing the ultimate realization of these receivables, including the current credit-worthiness of our customers, days outstanding trends, a review of historical collection results and a review of specific past due receivables. If the financial conditions of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, resulting in decreased net income. To date, uncollectible accounts have been within the range of our expectations. We lease and sell storage container products, modular buildings and mobile offices to our customers. Leases to customers generally qualify as operating leases unless there is a bargain purchase option at the end of the lease term. Revenue is recognized as earned in accordance with the lease terms established by the lease agreements and when collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue is recognized as earned in accordance with the lease terms established by the lease agreements and when collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue from sales of equipment is recognized upon delivery and when collectability is reasonably assured. We have a fleet of storage containers, mobile offices, modular buildings and steps that we lease to customers under operating lease agreements with varying terms. The lease fleet (or lease or rental equipment) is recorded at cost and depreciated on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful life (5 20 years), after the date the units are put in service, and are depreciated down to their estimated residual values (up to 70% of cost). In our opinion, estimated residual values are at or below net realizable values. We periodically review these depreciation policies in light of various factors, including the practices of the larger competitors in the industry, and our own historical experience. 27 Table of Contents For the issuances of stock options, we follow the fair value provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation. FASB ASC Topic 718 requires recognition of employee share-based compensation expense in the statements of income over the vesting period based on the fair value of the stock option at the grant date. The pricing model we use for determining fair values of the purchase option is the Black-Scholes Pricing Model. Valuations derived from this model are subject to ongoing internal and external verification and review. The model uses market-sourced inputs such as interest rates, market prices and volatilities. Selection of these inputs involves managements judgment and may impact net income. In particular, prior to July 1, 2009, we used volatility rates based upon a sample of comparable companies our industry and we now use a volatility rate based on the performance of our common stock; which yields a higher rate. In addition we use a risk-free interest rate, which is the rate on U.S. Treasury instruments, for a security with a maturity that approximates the estimated remaining expected term of the stock option. We account for goodwill in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. FASB ASC Topic 350 prohibits the amortization of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives and requires these assets be reviewed for impairment at least annually. We operate two reportable and operating segments (Pac-Van and Royal Wolf). All of our goodwill was allocated between these two reporting units. We perform an annual impairment test on goodwill at June 30 using the two-step process required under FASB ASC Topic 350. The first step is a screen for potential impairment, while the second step measures the amount of the impairment, if any. At June 30, 2010, we performed the first step of the two-step impairment test and compared the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. In assessing the fair value of the reporting units, we considered both the market approach and the income approach. Under the market approach, the fair value of the reporting unit was determined on a weighted-average range of multiples to adjusted EBITDA. Under the income approach, the fair value of the reporting unit was based on the present value of estimated cash flows. The income approach was dependent on a number of significant management assumptions, including estimated future revenue growth rates, gross margins on sales, operating margins, capital expenditures and discount rates. Each approach was given equal weight in arriving at the fair value of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the net assets of any reporting unit would have exceeded its fair value, a step-two impairment test would have been performed. In a step-two test, we would be required to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill and compare it to the carrying value of the goodwill. Generally, this would involve allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to the respective assets and liabilities (as if the reporting unit had been acquired in separate and individual business combination and the fair value was the price paid to acquire it) with the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to their respective assets and liabilities being the implied fair value of goodwill. It was determined that the fair value of the Royal Wolf reporting unit exceeded the carrying values of the net assets at June 30, 2010. However, the fair value of the Pac-Van reporting unit was less than the carrying values the net assets at June 30, 2010 and, therefore, we performed a step-two impairment test for Pac-Van. In the step-two test for Pac-Van, the implied value of its goodwill was less than the carrying value of goodwill, resulting in an impairment charge of $7,633,000 at June 30, 2010. The Company had not recorded an impairment charge to goodwill prior to June 30, 2010. We would also consider performing impairment tests during an interim reporting period in which significant events or changes in circumstances indicate that a permanent impairment may have occurred. Some factors we consider important which could trigger such an impairment review include (1) significant underperformance relative to historical, expected or projected future operating results; (2) significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; (3) significant changes during the period in our market capitalization relative to net book value; and (4) significant negative industry or general economic trends. At September 30, 2010, there were no significant changes in events or circumstances that were not existing or considered since the last annual test at Royal Wolf or Pac-Van. However, if Pac-Vans operating results worsen for the remainder of the current fiscal year, a potential step-one impairment would most likely exist again at year-end. The range of the potential impairment would vary depending on the range of valuation assumptions used and could be significant. Intangible assets include those with indefinite (trademark and trade name), and finite (primarily customer base and lists, non-compete agreements and deferred financing costs) useful lives. Customer base and lists and non-compete agreements are amortized on the straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit which range from one to ten years. Costs to obtaining long-term financing are deferred and amortized over the term of the related debt using the straight-line method. Amortizing the deferred financing costs using the straight-line method does not produce significantly different results than that of the effective interest method. We review intangibles (those assets resulting from acquisitions) at least annually for impairment or when events or circumstances indicate these assets might be impaired. We test impairment using historical cash flows and other relevant facts and circumstances as the primary basis for its estimates of future cash flows. This process requires the use of estimates and assumptions, which are subject to a high degree of judgment. 28 Table of Contents We determined that, as a result of changes in market conditions and other factors in the U.S., an impairment charge to the customer base acquired in the Pac-Van acquisition was required to be recorded at both June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2010; and, as of June 30, 2010, to the trade name. To be more in line with the expected revenue stream of the customer base, we recorded the June 30, 2009 impairment charge of $689,000 by revising the method of amortization from a straight-line to an accelerated basis. The June 30, 2010 impairment charge to the customer base and trade name of $329,000 and $190,000, respectively, was recorded pursuant to an evaluation, which determined that the respective fair values were less than the carrying values. These impairment charges were included as a part of depreciation and amortization. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we recognize income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. For each jurisdiction, we estimate the actual amount of taxes currently payable or receivable as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance would be provided for those deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not that the related benefits will not be realized. In determining the amount of the valuation allowance, we consider estimated future taxable income as well as feasible tax planning strategies in each jurisdiction. If we determine that we will not realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets, we would increase our valuation allowance with a charge to income tax expense or offset goodwill if the deferred tax asset was acquired in a business combination. Conversely, if we determine that we will ultimately be able to realize all or a portion of the related benefits for which a valuation allowance has been provided, all or a portion of the related valuation allowance would be reduced with a credit to income tax expense except if the valuation allowance was created in conjunction with a tax asset in a business combination. Reference is made to Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of our significant accounting policies. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Reference is made to Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements that could potentially impact us.