Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, see Item 1A, Risk Factors. Sales and Go-To-Market Strategy Our go-to-market ("GTM") network includes direct sales forces and broad eCommerce capabilities, as well as indirect sales resources that support our global partner ecosystem. We also maintain important relationships with a number of Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs), Internet Service Providers (ISPs), and retail and online stores by which we market and sell our products. Our dedicated renewals team remains focused on extending customer relationships and renewing our contracts. We also continued to streamline our indirect sales strategy to have fewer, more focused partners with specialized partner programs to enhance sales. We believe these changes provide customers with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experience, while also enabling us to expand our business. Consumer and Small Business We sell our consumer products and services to individuals, households and small businesses globally. We bring these products to market through our eCommerce platform, distributors, direct marketers, Internet-based resellers, system builders, ISPs, wireless carriers, and retailers worldwide. We also have a limited number of partnerships with OEMs globally to distribute our Internet security and online backup offerings. Commercial We sell and market our products and related services to small, medium and large enterprise customers through field sales and inside sales leveraging indirect sales partners around the world who are specifically trained and certified to sell our solutions. These partners include national solution providers, regional solution providers, national account resellers, global/federal system integrators and managed service providers. Our products are also available on our eCommerce platform, as well as through authorized distributors and OEMs who incorporate our technologies into their products, bundle our products with their offerings, or serve as authorized resellers of our products. Enterprise We sell and market our products and related services to large enterprises, including government and public sector customers, through our field sales force. This field sales team is responsible for approximately 2,000 named accounts around the world, leveraging our global partner ecosystem primarily targeting senior executives and IT department personnel responsible for managing a companys highest-order IT initiatives. Research and Development Symantec embraces a global research and development (R&D) strategy to drive organic innovation. Engineers and researchers throughout the Company pursue advanced projects to translate R&D into customer solutions by creating new technologies and integrating our unique set of technology assets. Symantec focuses on short, medium, and long-term applied research, develops new products in emerging areas, participates in government-funded research projects, drives industry standards, and partners with universities to conduct research supporting Symantecs strategy. Symantecs Security Technology and Response organization consists of a global team of security engineers, threat analysts, and researchers and provides the underlying functionality, content, and support for many of our consumer, small business and enterprise security products. Our security experts monitor malicious code reports collected through the Global Intelligence Network, one of the largest in the world, to provide insight into emerging attacks, malicious code activity, phishing, spam, and other threats. The team uses this vast amount of data and insights to develop new technologies and approaches, such as 6 Table of Contents Symantecs reputation-based security technology and our forthcoming unified security analytics platform, to protect customer information. Research and development expenses were $1,144 million , $1,039 million , and $1,026 million in fiscal 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, representing approximately 18% of revenue in fiscal 2015 and 16% and 15% of revenue in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. The percentage fluctuates between periods as a result of a variety of factors, including changes in sales level and foreign currency exchange rates. We believe that technical leadership is essential to our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to R&D. Support Symantec has support facilities throughout the world, staffed by technical product experts knowledgeable in the operating environments in which our products are deployed. Our technical support experts assist customers with issue resolution and threat detection. We provide consumers with various levels of support offerings. Consumers receive automatic downloads of the latest virus definitions, application bug fixes, and patches for most of our consumer products. Our consumer support program provides self-help online services and phone, chat, and email support to consumers worldwide, and our Norton Security products come with a Virus Protection Promise, which in some markets provides free virus removal services to customers whose protected computers become infected. We provide customers various levels of enterprise support offerings. Our enterprise security support program offers annual maintenance support contracts, including content, upgrades, and technical support. Our standard technical support includes: self-service options delivered by telephone or electronically during the contracted-for hours, immediate patches for severe problems, periodic software updates, and access to our technical knowledge base and frequently asked questions. Customers In fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, there were no customers that accounted for more than 10% of our total net revenue. Acquisitions Our strategy will be complemented by business combinations that fit strategically and meet specific profitability hurdles. Our acquisitions are designed to enhance the features and functionality of our existing products and extend our product leadership in core markets. We consider time-to-market, synergies with existing products, and potential market share gains when evaluating the economics of acquisitions of technologies, product lines, or companies. We may acquire or dispose of other technologies, products, and companies in the future. We did not make any material acquisitions during fiscal 2015. Competition Our markets are consolidating, highly competitive, and subject to rapid changes in technology. The competitive landscape has changed significantly over the past few years, with new competition arising. Much of the market growth has come from startups whose focus is on solving a specific customer issue or delivering a specific niche-oriented product and from larger integration providers that increasingly are looking to put various types of protection, whether it is backup, high availability or security, into their platforms. We are focused on delivering comprehensive customer solutions, integrating across our broad product portfolio and partnering with other technology providers to differentiate ourselves from the competition. We believe that the principal competitive factors necessary to be successful in our industry include product quality and effectiveness, time-to-market, price, reputation, financial stability, breadth of product offerings, customer support, brand recognition, and effective sales and marketing efforts. In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors, we face indirect or potential competition from retailers, application providers, operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs who may provide various solutions and functions in their current and future products. We also compete for access to retail distribution channels and for spending at the retail level and in corporate accounts. In addition, we compete with other software companies, operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs to acquire technologies, products, or companies and to publish software developed by third parties. We also compete with other software companies in our effort to place our products on the computer equipment sold to consumers and enterprises by OEMs. The competitive environments for our security and information management products are described below. Security Most of the channels in which our security products are offered are highly competitive. Some of our consumer competitors are intensely focused on customer acquisition, which has led competitors to offer their technology for free, engage in aggressive marketing, or enter into competitive partnerships. Our primary security competitors are Intel Corporation, Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), and Trend Micro Inc. There are also several freeware providers and regional security companies 7 Table of Contents that we compete against. For our consumer backup offerings, our primary competitors are Carbonite, Inc. and EMC Corporation (EMC). In the SSL market, our primary competitors are Comodo Group, Inc. and GoDaddy.com, Inc. In the Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) security market, our primary competitors are Google Inc. and Microsoft. Our primary competitors in the managed security services business are Dell Inc., IBM Corporation ("IBM"), and Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"). Information Management The markets for storage management, backup, archiving, and eDiscovery are intensely competitive. Our primary competitors are CommVault Systems, Inc., EMC, HP and IBM. Intellectual Property Protective Measures We regard some of the features of our internal operations, software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and other measures to protect our proprietary information. Our intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that enables us to gain recognition for our products, services, and technology and enhance our competitive position. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors, and corporate partners and we enter into license agreements with respect to our software, documentation, and other proprietary information. These license agreements are generally non-transferable and have either a perpetual or subscription based time limited term. We also educate our employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to protect our facilities, equipment, and networks. Trademarks, Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition to Symantec and the Symantec logo, we have used, registered, or applied to register other specific trademarks and service marks to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign countries and jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service mark, and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to country, and in the U.S. we generally are able to maintain our trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use. We have more than 2,700 patents, in addition to foreign patents and pending U.S. and foreign patent applications, which relate to various aspects of our products and technology. The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically 17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or 20 years from the date of filing of the patent application resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Our products are protected under U.S. and international copyright laws and laws related to the protection of intellectual property and proprietary information. We take measures to label such products with the appropriate proprietary rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the U.S. and abroad. However, these measures may not provide sufficient protection, and our intellectual property rights may be challenged. In addition, we license some intellectual property from third parties for use in our products, and generally must rely on the third party to protect the licensed intellectual property rights. While we believe that our ability to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights is important to our success, we also believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent, trademark, license, or other intellectual property right. Seasonality As is typical for many large technology companies, our business is seasonal. License and maintenance orders are generally higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our first and second fiscal quarters. A decline in license and maintenance orders is typical in the first quarter of our fiscal year as compared to license and maintenance orders in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. In addition, we generally receive a higher volume of license and maintenance orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders concentrated in the latter part of that month. We believe that this seasonality primarily reflects customer spending patterns and budget cycles, as well as the impact of compensation incentive plans for our sales personnel. Revenue generally reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a lesser extent than orders because revenue is not recognized until an order is shipped or services are performed and other revenue recognition criteria are met, and because a significant portion of our in-period revenue comes from our deferred revenue balance. Employees As of April 3, 2015, we employed more than 19,000 people worldwide, approximately 44% of whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 6,100 employees work in sales and marketing, 6,700 in research and development, 4,900 in support and services, and 1,900 in management, manufacturing, and administration. 8 Table of Contents Available Information Our Internet address is www.symantec.com. We make available free of charge our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on our investor relations website located at www.symantec.com/invest . The information contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this annual report unless expressly noted. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, you may read and copy any filing that we make with the SEC at the public reference room maintained by the SEC, located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference room. Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. The list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. If we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. For the last few years, we have experienced a number of transitions as we have attempted to revitalize our business model, improve execution, and innovate new products and services. These transitions have involved significant turnover in management and other key personnel, changes in our strategic direction and, more recently, our decision to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies. Transitions of the order we have experienced or are experiencing can be disruptive and result in loss of institutional focus and employee morale, making execution of business strategies more difficult. We are also in the process of seeking to address the challenges of dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the decline in the PC market, the market shift towards tablets within mobility and architectural shifts in the provision of security and storage solutions, all of which has made it more difficult for us to compete effectively and requires us to improve our product and service offerings. We may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our efforts to address these challenges and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. In addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with these efforts given our multiple business units, the proposed separation and the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate. If we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. We are pursuing a plan to separate our information management business into a new, independent publicly-traded company. The proposed separation may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or at all and, if completed, may not achieve the intended benefits. In October 2014, we announced a plan to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies through a tax-free distribution to Symantec stockholders of 100% of the capital stock of our information management business (the spin-off). We could be delayed or prevented from completing the proposed separation, or be forced to complete it on terms or conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected, for a variety of reasons, including unanticipated developments, such as delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances, uncertainty of the financial markets. Furthermore, any significant delays or complications in our implementation of a new enterprise resource management system and IT infrastructure for our stand-alone information management business would adversely affect our ability to effect the separation in a timely manner and could result in significant business disruption, increased costs, or both. In addition, if other opportunities were to arise for the disposition of the information business that we believe are superior to the spin-off, we may elect not to complete the spin-off. Even if the transaction is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the proposed separation. Moreover, following the proposed separation, the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies may not be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed separation not occurred. In addition, we expect to spend substantial time, money and effort on completing the proposed separation without any assurance that it will be completed. Our investments in terms of financial and management resources may be significantly higher than expected, which could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities and distract us from operating our businesses as currently conducted. Our focus on completing the separation, and resource constraints resulting from that focus, could also adversely affect the execution of our business strategy. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced products and services, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance, and other personnel. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. Competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, and we face difficulties in attracting, 9 Table of Contents retaining and motivating employees as a result. These difficulties may increase during the pendency of the proposed separation and following its completion. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. The volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. In addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of equity-based compensation as compensation expense. As a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. From time to time, key personnel leave our company and the incidence of this increased in recent periods due to the transitions we have experienced over the last few years. While we strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure