Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsRevenue and Note 5, Business Segments , in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Long-Term Care Services Segment Skilled Nursing Facilities As of December 31, 2010, our skilled nursing companies provided skilled nursing care at 78 regionally clustered facilities, having 10,830 licensed beds, in California, Texas, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nevada and New Mexico. We have developed programs for, and actively market our services to high-acuity patients, who are 2 Table of Contents typically admitted to our facilities as they recover from strokes, other neurological conditions, cardiovascular and respiratory ailments, joint replacements and other muscular or skeletal disorders. As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 7,537 full-time equivalent employees in our skilled nursing business. We use interdisciplinary teams of experienced medical professionals, including therapists, to provide services prescribed by physicians. These teams include registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, certified nursing assistants and other professionals who provide individualized comprehensive nursing care 24 hours a day. Many of our skilled nursing facilities are equipped to provide specialty care, such as chemotherapy, enteral/parenteral nutrition, tracheotomy care and ventilator care. We also provide standard services to each of our skilled nursing patients, including room and board, special nutritional programs, social services, recreational activities and related healthcare and other services. In December 2004, we introduced our Express Recovery program, which uses a dedicated unit within a skilled nursing facility to deliver a comprehensive rehabilitation regimen in accommodations specifically designed to serve high-acuity patients. Each Express Recovery unit can typically be entered without using the main facility entrance, permitting residents to bypass portions of the facility dedicated to the traditional nursing home patient. Each Express Recovery unit typically has 12 to 36 beds and provides skilled nursing care and rehabilitation therapy for patients recovering from conditions such as joint replacement surgery, and cardiac and respiratory ailments. Since introducing our Express Recovery program our skilled mix at the facilities has increased, resulting in higher reimbursement rates. Skilled mix is the average daily number of Medicare and managed care patients we serve at our skilled nursing facilities divided by the average daily number of total patients we serve at our skilled nursing facilities. As of December 31, 2010, we operated 61 Express Recovery units with 2,187 beds. We currently plan to expand one of our current facilities and complete the development of three additional Express Recovery units, adding approximately 83 beds by the end of 2011. We have an administrative service company that provides a full complement of administrative and consultative services that allows our facility operators and unaffiliated third-party facility operators with whom we contract to better focus on delivery of healthcare services. We currently have one such service agreement with an unaffiliated facility operator. The income associated with the services our administrative service company provides is included in LTC in our segment reporting as services are performed primarily by personnel in the LTC segment. Each of our facilities operates as a distinct company to better focus on service delivery and is supported by the administrative service company for efficient delivery of non-healthcare support services. Assisted Living Facilities We complement our skilled nursing care business by providing assisted living services at 22 facilities with 1,264 beds as of December 31, 2010. Our assisted living companies provide residential accommodations, activities, meals, security, housekeeping and assistance in the activities of daily living to seniors who are independent or who require some support, but not the level of nursing care provided in a skilled nursing facility. Our independent living units are non-licensed independent living apartments in which residents are independent and require no support with the activities of daily living. As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 332 full-time equivalent employees in our assisted and independent living businesses. Equity Investment in Pharmacy Joint Venture We have a 50% equity interest in APSSummit Care Pharmacy, LLC, or APSSummit Care, which is a joint venture that serves the pharmaceutical needs of a limited number of our Texas operations, as well as a number of other unaffiliated customers. The remaining 50% equity interest in APSSummit Care is owned by an unaffiliated third party. APS Summit Care operates a pharmacy in Austin, Texas, through which we pay market value for prescription drugs and receive a 50% share of the net income related to the joint venture. 3 Table of Contents Therapy Services Segment Rehabilitation Therapy Services As of December 31, 2010, we provided rehabilitation therapy services to a total of 172 healthcare facilities, including 68 facilities owned by us. In addition, we have contracts to manage the rehabilitation therapy services for our 10 healthcare facilities in New Mexico. We provide rehabilitation therapy services at our skilled nursing facilities as part of an integrated service offering in connection with our skilled nursing care. We believe that an integrated approach to treating high-acuity patients enhances our ability to achieve successful patient outcomes and enables us to identify and treat patients who can benefit from our rehabilitation therapy services. We believe hospitals and physician groups often refer high-acuity patients to our skilled nursing facilities because they recognize the value of an integrated approach to providing skilled nursing care and rehabilitation therapy services. We believe that we have also established a strong reputation as a premium provider of rehabilitation therapy services to third-party skilled nursing operators in our local markets, with a recognized ability to provide these services to high-acuity patients. Our approach to providing rehabilitation therapy services for third-party operators emphasizes high-quality treatment and successful clinical outcomes. As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 1,032 full-time equivalent employees (primarily therapists) in our rehabilitation therapy business. Hospice and Home Health Services Segment Hospice Care As a result of the Hospice/Home Health Acquisition, in May 2010 we began providing hospice services in Arizona, Nevada, Idaho, and Montana. Prior to that time we only provided hospice services in California and New Mexico. Hospice services focus on the physical, spiritual and psychosocial needs of terminally ill individuals and their families, and consist primarily of palliative and clinical care, education and counseling. As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 465 full-time equivalent employees in our hospice services business. Home Health As a result of the Hospice/Home Health Acquisition, in May 2010 we began providing home health care services in Arizona, Nevada, Idaho and Montana. We derive substantially all of the revenue from our home health business from Medicare. Our home health care services generally consist of providing some combination of the services of registered nurses, speech, occupational and physical therapists, medical social workers and certified home health aides. Home health care is often a cost-effective solution for patients, and can also increase their quality of life and allow them to receive quality medical care in the comfort and convenience of a familiar setting. As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 153 full-time equivalent employees in our home health business. Our Local Referral Network Our sales and marketing team of regionally based professionals support our facility-based personnel who are responsible for marketing our high-acuity capabilities. These marketing efforts involve developing new referral relationships and managing existing relationships within our local network. Our facility-based personnel actively call on hospitals, hospital discharge planners, primary care physicians and various community organizations as well as specialty physicians, such as orthopedic surgeons, pulmonologists, neurologists and other medical specialists who frequently treat patients who require the physical therapy or other medically complex services that we provide. We also have established strategic alliances with medical centers in our local markets, including Baylor Health Care System in Dallas, Texas, St. Josephs Hospital in Orange County, California, and White Memorial in 4 Table of Contents Los Angeles, California. We believe that forming alliances with leading medical centers will improve our ability to attract high-acuity patients to our facilities because we believe that our associations with these medical centers typically enhance our reputation for providing high-quality care. As part of these alliances, the medical centers formally evaluate and provide input with respect to our quality of care. We believe these alliances provide us with significantly greater exposure to physicians and discharge staff at these medical centers, strengthening our relationships and reputation with these valuable referral sources. These medical centers may also seek to discharge their patients more rapidly into a facility where the patient will continue to receive high-quality care. Payment Sources We derive revenue primarily from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care payors and private pay patients. Medicaid typically covers patients who require standard room and board services and provides reimbursement rates that are generally lower than rates earned from other sources. We use skilled mix to evaluate the patient acuity mix for our skilled nursing facilities over various periods. We monitor our quality mix, which is the percentage of non-Medicaid revenue from each of our businesses, to measure the level of more attractive reimbursements that we receive across each of our business units. We believe that our focus on attracting and providing integrated care for high-acuity patients has had a positive effect on our skilled mix and quality mix. Sources of Reimbursement We receive a majority of our revenue from Medicare and Medicaid. The Medicare and Medicaid programs provided approximately 37.1% and 31.7%, respectively, of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 and approximately 35.0% and 31.9%, respectively, of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. Changes in the reimbursement rates or the system governing reimbursement for these programs directly affect our business. In addition, our rehabilitation therapy services, for which we typically receive payment from private payors, are significantly dependent on Medicare and Medicaid funding because the private payors are often reimbursed by these programs. In recent years, federal and state governments have enacted changes to these programs in response to increasing healthcare costs and budgetary constraints. See Item 1A of this report, Risk FactorsReductions in Medicare reimbursement rates, including annual caps that limit the amounts that can be paid for outpatient therapy services rendered to any Medicare beneficiary, or changes in the rules governing the Medicare program could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to remain certified as a Medicare and Medicaid provider depends on our ability to comply with existing and newly enacted laws or new interpretations of existing laws related to these programs. Medicare Medicare is a federal program that provides certain healthcare benefits to beneficiaries who are 65 years of age or older, blind, disabled or qualify for Medicares End Stage Renal Disease program. Medicare provides health insurance benefits in two primary parts for services that we provide: Part A . Medicare Part A is hospital insurance, which provides reimbursement for inpatient services for hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, hospices, home health and certain other healthcare providers and patients requiring daily professional skilled nursing and other rehabilitative care. Coverage in a skilled nursing facility is limited for a period of up to 100 days, if medically necessary, after the individual has qualified for Medicare coverage as a result of a three-day or longer hospital stay. Medicare pays for the first 20 days of stay in a skilled nursing facility in full and the next 80 days, to the extent above a daily coinsurance amount. Covered services include supervised nursing care, room and board, social services, pharmaceuticals and supplies as well as physical, speech and occupational therapies and other necessary services provided by nursing facilities. Medicare Part A also covers hospice care and some home health care. Part B . Medicare Part B is supplemental medical insurance, which requires the beneficiary to pay monthly premiums, covers physician services, limited drug coverage and other outpatient services, such as physical, occupational and speech therapy services, enteral nutrition, certain medical items and X-ray services received outside of a Part A covered inpatient stay. 5 Table of Contents To achieve and maintain Medicare certification, a healthcare provider must meet the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, Conditions of Participation on an ongoing basis, as determined in periodic facility surveys conducted by the state in which the provider is located. Medicare reimburses our skilled nursing facilities under a prospective payment system, or Prospective Pay System (PPS), for inpatient Medicare Part A covered services. Under the PPS, facilities are paid a predetermined amount per patient, per day, based on the anticipated costs of treating patients. The amount to be paid is determined by classifying each patient into a resource utilization group, or RUG, category, which is based upon each patients acuity level. Effective as of October 1, 2010, the RUG categories were expanded from 53 (which had been in effect since January 2006) to 66, with increased reimbursement rates for treating higher acuity patients. We believe these RUG changes more accurately pay skilled nursing facilities for the care of residents with medically complex conditions. Medicare per diem rates for skilled nursing facilities On August 11, 2009, CMS published its final rule on the fiscal year 2010 per diem payment rates for skilled nursing facilities. Under the final rule, CMS revised and rebased the skilled nursing facility market basket, resulting in a 2.2% market basket increase factor for fiscal year 2010. The fiscal year 2010 market basket adjustment increased aggregate payments to skilled nursing facilities nationwide by approximately $690.0 million. Additionally, in the final rule, CMS recalibrated the parity adjustment to result in a reduction in payments to skilled nursing facilities by approximately 3.3%, or $1.05 billion. CMS noted that the negative $1.05 billion adjustment described in the final rule would be partially offset by the fiscal year 2010 market basket adjustment factor of 2.2%, or $690.0 million, with a net result of a reduction in payments to skilled nursing facilities of approximately $360.0 million. On July 22, 2010, CMS published a notice containing its fiscal year 2011 per diem payment rates for skilled nursing facilities, effective for services provided beginning October 1, 2010 through September 30, 2011. Under the notice, CMS revised and rebased the skilled nursing facility market basket, resulting in a 1.7% market basket increase factor for fiscal year 2011. The fiscal year 2011 market basket adjustment will increase aggregate payments to skilled nursing facilities nationwide by approximately $542.0 million. Skilled nursing facility payment rates are calculated using a market basket index that reflects changes in the value of goods and services relevant to nursing home care. CMS also makes a forecast error adjustment if the difference between the projected and actual market basket index exceeds 0.5%. To calculate the fiscal year 2011 payment rate, CMS looked at the most recent available data from fiscal year 2009, when the forecasted market basket index was 3.4% and the actual increase was 2.8%. As a result, the fiscal year 2011 market basket increase factor of 2.3% was decreased by 0.6%, for a net increase of 1.7%. Initially, a provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the PPACA) delayed the implementation of the Resource Utilization Groups, Version 4 (RUGs IV) case-mix classification system until October 1, 2011, but the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010 repealed this provision and allowed RUGs IV to go into effect on October 1, 2010. New federal health reform legislative proposals in the future may eliminate the market basket update, which elimination could lead to a reduction in payments to skilled nursing facilities. Given the substantial uncertainty surrounding federal health reform efforts, it is impossible to predict the likelihood of the elimination of the market basket update or any other proposed reductions in payments to skilled nursing facilities. Should federal health reform legislation or subsequent regulatory activities result in the reduction of payments to skilled nursing facilities, the loss of revenue associated with future changes in skilled nursing facility payments could, in the future, have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Medicare rates for hospice On August 6, 2009, CMS announced a final rule increasing Medicare payments to hospices in fiscal year 2010 by 1.4%, or approximately $170.0 million. CMS said the final rule reflects a 2.1% increase in the market 6 Table of Contents basket, offset by a 0.7% decrease in payments to hospices due to a revised phase out of the wage index budget neutrality adjustment factor, starting with a 10% reduction in fiscal year 2010 and a 15% reduction each year from fiscal year 2011 through fiscal year 2016. The fiscal year 2010 hospice payment rates were effective for care and services furnished on or after October 1, 2009 through September 30, 2010. On July 22, 2010, CMS published a notice increasing Medicare payments to hospices in fiscal year 2011 by 1.8%, or approximately $220.0 million. CMS said the notice reflects a 2.6% increase in the market basket, offset by a 0.8% decrease in payments to hospices due to a revised phase out of the wage index budget neutrality adjustment factor, starting with a 10% reduction in fiscal year 2010 and a 15% reduction each year from fiscal year 2011 through fiscal year 2016. The fiscal year 2011 hospice payment rates are effective for care and services furnished on or after October 1, 2010 through September 30, 2011. Medicare rates for home health services On November 2, 2010, CMS published a final rule to update the prospective payments rates made by Medicare to home health agencies for calendar year 2011. Specifically, the rule provides for a home health market basket update, which was a 2.1% increase, minus 1% in accordance with the PPACA (for a net increase of 1.1% ), and updates the case-mix reduction percentage for calendar year 2011 to 3.79% to account for the additional increases in case-mix not due to the underlying condition of the home health patient. The final rule also contains provisions implementing further reductions in rates under the PPACA changes to the home health agency outlier policy. Prior to the enactment of the PPACA, total outlier payments could not exceed 5% of total projected or estimate home health payments in a given year. However, due to uncontrolled growth in outlier payments in a few discrete areas of the country, the PPACA implemented a change to the existing home health outlier policy through a 5% reduction to home health PPS rates, with total outlier payments not to exceed 2.5% of the total payments estimated for a given year. Home health agencies are also permanently subject to a 10% agency-level cap on outlier payments. Recent legislative actions impacting Medicare Beginning January 1, 2006, the Medicare Modernization Act of December 2003, or MMA, implemented a major expansion of the Medicare program through the introduction of a prescription drug benefit under Medicare Part D. Medicare beneficiaries who elect Part D coverage and are dual eligible beneficiaries, those eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid benefits are enrolled automatically in Part D and have their outpatient prescription drug costs covered by this Medicare benefit, subject to certain limitations. Most of the skilled nursing facility residents we serve whose drug costs are currently covered by state Medicaid programs are dual eligible beneficiaries. Accordingly, Medicaid is no longer a significant payor for the prescription pharmacy services provided to these residents. Section 4541 of the Balanced Budget Act, or BBA, requires CMS to impose financial limitations or caps on outpatient physical, speech-language and occupational therapy services by all providers other than hospital outpatient departments. The law requires a combined cap for physical therapy and speech-language pathology, and a separate cap for occupational therapy, reimbursed under Part B. The combined therapy cap for calendar year 2011 for physical therapy and speech-language pathology services, combined is $1,870; for occupational therapy services, the limit is also $1,870. These caps may result in decreased demand for rehabilitation therapy services that would otherwise be reimbursable under Part B, but for the caps. CMS, as directed by the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA, established a process to allow exceptions to the outpatient therapy caps for certain medically necessary services provided during 2006 for patients with certain conditions or multiple complexities whose therapy is reimbursed under Medicare Part B. Congress has since extended this exception process several times, including the PPACA, which extended this exception process through December 31, 2010, and most recently, the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010, which extended this exception process through December 31, 2011. The majority of the residents in our skilled 7 Table of Contents nursing facilities and patients served by our rehabilitation therapy agencies whose therapy is reimbursed under Medicare Part B have qualified for these exceptions. Following the revised expiration date for the therapy cap exception process, it is uncertain whether any further extension of the therapy cap exceptions will be included in any other federal legislation. If subsequent federal legislation fails to extend the therapy cap exceptions, the imposition of therapy caps could lead to reduced revenue for our facilities that bill for the affected therapy services and our rehabilitation company could experience reduced revenue from its third party contracts. Such reductions in revenue could adversely impact the results of our operations. CMS, in its annual update notice, or final rule, also discusses several initiatives, including plans to: (1) continue developing an integrated system of post-acute care payments, to make payments for similar services consistent regardless of where the service is delivered; (2) encourage the increased use of health information technology to improve both quality and efficiency in the delivery of post-acute care; (3) assist beneficiaries in their need to be better informed healthcare consumers by making information about healthcare pricing and quality accessible and understandable; and (4) accelerate the progress already being made in improving quality of life for nursing home residents. The DRA, which was expected to reduce Medicare and Medicaid payments to skilled nursing facilities by $100 million over five years (i.e., federal fiscal years 2006 to 2010), among other things, included a reduction in the amount of bad debt reimbursement for skilled nursing facilities. Medicare currently fully reimburses providers for certain unpaid Medicare beneficiary coinsurance and deductibles, also known as bad debt. Under the DRAs revisions, for patients who are not full-benefit, dual-eligible individuals, allowable bad-debt amounts attributable to coinsurance under the Medicare program for a skilled nursing facility will be reduced to 70%. Allowable bad-debt amounts for patients who are full-benefit, dual-eligible individuals will continue to be paid at 100%. This reduction took place for Medicare cost reports beginning on or after October 1, 2005. Also pursuant to DRA directives, CMS established a post-acute care payment reform demonstration. The goal of this initiative is to standardize patient assessment information from post-acute care settings, which includes skilled nursing facilities, long-term care hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation facilities and home health agencies, and to use this data to guide future payment policies in the Medicare program. The project will provide standardized information on patient health and functional status independent of post-acute care site of care and will examine resources and outcomes associated with treatment in each type of setting. The project is being completed in three phases: (i) Phase I, completed in December 2007, included developing a patient assessment tool, or CARE, and resource use tools, testing them in one market area, and selecting markets for further testing; (ii) Phase II began in March 2008 with data collection in the first of 11 market areas participating in the payment reform demonstration, and by November 2008, over 140 providers representing acute and post-acute care settings from around the country were actively collecting patient assessment data using the CARE tool; and (iii) pursuant to Congressional authorization in the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007, beginning in fall 2009, CMS authorized the expansion of the demonstration to include an additional 66 acute and post-acute providers, with participation limited to a six-month period and without delineation of geographic markets. Although CMS is exploring the possibility of site-neutral payments for post-acute care, it remains unclear at this time how information from the project would be employed by CMS to guide future changes to payment policies for post-acute care, or how the changes would impact reimbursement rates for skilled nursing facilities. Medicaid Medicaid is a state-administered medical assistance program for the indigent, operated by the individual states with the financial participation of the federal government, providing health insurance coverage for certain persons in financial need, regardless of age, and that may supplement Medicare benefits for financially needy persons aged 65 and older. Under Medicaid, most state expenditures for medical assistance are matched by the federal government. The federal medical assistance percentage, or FMAP, which is the percentage of Medicaid expenses paid by the 8 Table of Contents federal government, ranged from 50% to 76% in fiscal year 2008, depending on the state in which the program was administered. In response to the economic downturn, Section 5001 of Division B of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or ARRA, provides for a temporary increase in FMAP rates for Medicaid and certain other federal programs. The purpose of the increases to the FMAP rates was to provide fiscal relief to states and to protect and maintain state Medicaid and certain other assistance programs in a period of economic downturn, referred to as the recession adjustment period. The recession adjustment period is defined as the period beginning October 1, 2008 and ending December 31, 2010. During this recession adjustment period, each states FMAP rate was recalculated on a quarterly basis, based on a calculation formula set forth in Section 5001 of ARRA that increases FMAP rates based in part on unemployment levels within a state. For example, for pre-ARRA fiscal year 2009, FMAP rates ranged from 50% to 76%; by contrast, under the ARRA FMAP increases, FMAP rates for fiscal year 2009 ranged from 56% to 84%. For federal fiscal year 2009 in the states in which we currently operate, pre-ARRA FMAP rates ranged between 50% and 71%; and post-ARRA FMAP rates ranged between 62% and 79%. Thus, for federal fiscal year 2009, an additional 8% to 12% of Medicaid funds were provided by the federal government. These enhanced FMAP rates under ARRA were recalculated on a quarterly basis through December 31, 2010, and changes in a states unemployment rate could affect the ARRA-adjusted FMAP rates. The federal fiscal year 2011 FMAP rates in the states in which we currently operate range between 50% and 70%. Moreover, on August 10, 2010, the Education, Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act became law and extended the enhanced FMAP rates under the ARRA through June 30, 2011. It is unclear what further FMAP enhancements, if any, will continue past June 30, 2011. Provider taxes To generate funds to pay for the increasing costs of the Medicaid program, many states utilize financial arrangements commonly referred to as provider taxes. Under provider tax arrangements, states collect taxes from healthcare providers and then use the revenue to pay the providers as a Medicaid expenditure, which allows the states to then claim additional federal matching funds on the additional reimbursements. To curb these types of Medicaid funding arrangements by states, Congress placed restrictions on states use of provider taxes as a means of obtaining federal matching funds. Under the Medicaid Voluntary Contribution and Provider-Specific Tax Amendments of 1991, the federal matching funds available to a state are reduced by the total amount of healthcare related taxes that the state imposed, unless certain requirements are met. The federal matching funds are not reduced if the state taxes are broad-based and not applied specifically to Medicaid reimbursed services, and providers are at risk for the amount of tax assessed and not guaranteed to receive reimbursement for the tax assessed through the applicable state Medicaid program. Under current law, taxes imposed on providers may not exceed 5.5% of the providers total revenue (scheduled to increase to 6.0% in October 2011) and must be applied uniformly across all healthcare providers in the same class. Medicaid Integrity Program With the passage of the DRA, specifically section 6034, Congress created the Medicaid Integrity Program, or MIP, through section 1936 of the Social Security Act, or the SSA. Section 1936 of the SSA requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or HHS, to enter into contracts with eligible entities to perform four activities: (1) review Medicaid provider actions to detect fraud or potential fraud; (2) audit Medicaid provider claims; (3) identify overpayments; and (4) educate providers and others on payment integrity and quality of care issues. The contractors that perform these activities are known as Medicaid Integrity Contractors, or MICs. There are three types of MICs that perform the following activities: (1) Review of Provider MICs, which analyze Medicaid claims data to identify aberrant claims and potential billing vulnerabilities, and which also provide leads to Audit of Provider and Identification of Overpayment MICs, or Audit MICs, of providers to be audited; (2) Audit MICs, which conduct post-payment audits of all types of Medicaid providers, and, where appropriate, identify overpayments to these providers; and (3) Education MICs, which develop training materials 9 Table of Contents to conduct provider education and training on payment integrity and quality of care issues, and which highlight the value of education in preventing fraud and abuse in the Medicaid program. Provider MIC audits began in Florida and South Carolina at the end of fiscal year 2008; audits in other jurisdictions began in fiscal year 2009. As of December 2009, MICs began actively conducting audits in over 30 states, including California, Texas, and New Mexico. Statements from CMS regarding the preliminary results of the first 500 MIC audits indicate that nearly 30% of the audits conducted have been of long-term care facilities. Unlike the Medicare Recovery Audit Contractor, or RAC, program, the MIC audits are not subject to a uniform set of federal standards, but rather are governed according to state regulations and procedures relating to Medicaid provider audits and appeals. As such, a great degree of uncertainty surrounds whether and to what extent the results of audits conducted by this new set of audit contractors will result in recoupments of alleged overpayments to our facilities. To the extent the MICs apply different or more stringent standards than other past analogous audit programs, the MIC audits could result in recoupments of alleged overpayments and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, Section 6411 of the PPACA expanded the RAC program, which formerly included only Medicare Part A and Part B claims, to also include Medicare Part C and Part D claims, as well as Medicaid claims effective December 31, 2010. It is uncertain at this time how the recently-expanded RAC program will interact with the MIC program. CMS has noted in a FAQ that a provider may be subject to audit by multiple oversight bodies, especially if the audits cover different programs (Medicare versus Medicaid), different audit issues (one-day stays versus post-mortem payments) or different audit periods. Moreover, in a proposed rule, published by CMS on November 10, 2010, CMS provides for States and Medicaid RACs to coordinate with other contractors and entities auditing Medicaid providers and with State and Federal law enforcement agencies. Medicaid eligibility The DRA limits the ability of individuals to become eligible for Medicaid by increasing from three years to five years the time period, or the look-back period, in which the transfer of assets by an individual for less than fair market value will render the individual ineligible for Medicaid benefits for nursing home care. Under the DRA, a person that transferred assets for less than fair market value during the look-back period will be ineligible for Medicaid for so long as they would have been able to fund their cost of care absent the transfer or until the transfer would no longer have been made during the look-back period. This period is referred to as the penalty period. The DRA also changes the calculation for determining when the penalty period begins and prohibits states from ignoring small asset transfers and certain other asset transfer mechanisms. Medicaid reimbursement Medicaid reimbursement formulas are established by each state with the approval of the federal government in accordance with federal guidelines. The Medicaid program also generally permits states to develop their own standards for the establishment of rates and varies in certain respects from state to state. The law requires each state to use a public process for establishing proposed rates whereby the methodology and justification of rates used are available for public review and comment. The states in which we operate currently use prospective cost-based reimbursement systems. Under cost-based reimbursement systems, the facility is reimbursed for the reasonable direct and indirect allowable costs it incurred in a base year in providing routine resident care services as defined by the program. The reimbursements received under a cost-based reimbursement system are updated periodically for inflation. In certain states, efficiency incentives are provided and facilities may be subject to cost ceilings. Reasonable costs normally include certain allowances for administrative and general costs, as well as the cost of capital or investment in the facility, which may be transformed into a fair rental or cost of capital charge for property and equipment. Many of the prospective payment systems under which we operate also contain an acuity measurement system, which adjusts rates based on the care needs of the resident. Retrospective cost-based systems operate similar to the pre-PPS Medicare program where skilled nursing facilities are paid on 10 Table of Contents an interim basis for services provided, subject to adjustments based on allowable costs, which are generally submitted on an annual basis. Managed Care Our managed care patients consist of individuals who are insured by a third-party entity, typically called a senior Health Maintenance Organization, or senior HMO plan, or are Medicare beneficiaries who assign their Medicare benefits to a senior HMO plan. Private Pay and Other Private pay and other sources consist primarily of individuals or parties who directly pay for their services or are beneficiaries of the Department of Veterans Affairs or hospice beneficiaries. Reimbursement for Specific Services Reimbursement for Skilled Nursing Services Skilled nursing facility revenue is primarily derived from Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, as discussed above. Our skilled nursing companies also provide Medicaid-covered services to eligible individuals consisting of nursing care, room and board and social services. In addition, states may, at their option, cover other services such as physical, occupational and speech therapies. Reimbursement for Assisted Living Services Assisted living facility revenue is primarily derived from private pay residents at rates we establish based upon the services we provide and market conditions in the area of operation. In addition, Medicaid or other state-specific programs in some states where we operate supplement payments for board and care services provided in assisted living facilities. Reimbursement for Rehabilitation Therapy Services Our rehabilitation therapy services operations receive payment for services from affiliated and non-affiliated skilled nursing facilities and assisted living facilities that they serve. The payments are based on contracts with customers with negotiated patient per diem rates or a negotiated fee schedule based on the type of service rendered. Various federal and state laws and regulations govern reimbursement for rehabilitation therapy services to long-term care facilities and other healthcare providers participating in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs. The federal and state reimbursement and fraud and abuse laws and regulations are applicable to our rehabilitation therapy services operations because the services we provide to our customers, including affiliated entities, are generally paid under Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs. We could be negatively affected if we violate the laws governing our arrangements with patients or referral sources. Also, if our customers fail to comply with these laws and regulations, they could be subject to possible sanctions, including loss of licensure or eligibility to participate in reimbursement programs, as well as civil and criminal penalties, which could adversely affect our rehabilitation therapy operations, including our financial results. Our customers will also be affected by the Medicare Part B outpatient rehabilitation therapy cap discussed above. Reimbursement for Hospice Services For a Medicare beneficiary to qualify for the Medicare hospice benefit, two physicians must certify that, in their best judgment, the beneficiary has less than six months to live, assuming the beneficiarys disease runs its normal course. In addition, the Medicare beneficiary must affirmatively elect hospice care and waive any rights to other Medicare benefits related to his or her terminal illness. Each benefit period, a physician must re-certify 11 Table of Contents that the Medicare beneficiarys life expectancy is six months or less in order for the beneficiary to continue to qualify for and to receive the Medicare hospice benefit. The first two benefit periods are measured at 90-day intervals and subsequent benefit periods are measured at 60-day intervals. There is no limit on the number of periods that a Medicare beneficiary may be re-certified. A Medicare beneficiary may revoke his or her election at any time and begin receiving traditional Medicare benefits. Medicare reimburses for hospice care. We receive one of four predetermined daily or hourly rates based on the level of care we furnish to the beneficiary. These rates are subject to annual adjustments based on inflation and geographic wage considerations. We are subject to two limitations on Medicare payments for hospice services. First, if inpatient days of care provided to patients at a hospice exceed 20% of the total days of hospice care provided for an annual period beginning on November 1st, then payment for days in excess of this limit are paid for at the routine home care rate. None of our hospice programs exceeded the payment limits on inpatient services for 2010 or 2009. Second, overall payments made by Medicare to us on a per hospice program basis are also subject to a cap amount calculated by the Medicare fiscal intermediary at the end of the hospice cap period. The Medicare revenue paid to a hospice program from November 1 to October 31 may not exceed the annual aggregate cap amount. This annual aggregate cap amount is calculated by multiplying the number of first time Medicare hospice beneficiaries during the year by the Medicare per beneficiary cap amount, resulting in that hospices aggregate cap, which is the allowable amount of total Medicare payments that hospice can receive for that cap year. If a hospice exceeds its aggregate cap, then the hospice must repay the excess back to Medicare. The Medicare cap amount is reduced proportionately for patients who transferred in and out of our hospice services. The Medicare cap amount is adjusted annually for inflation, but is not adjusted for geographic differences in wage levels, although hospice per diem payment rates are wage indexed. Our hospice program exceeded the Medicare cap limit in 2009 by $2.1 million. In 2010 our hospice program did not exceed the Medicare cap limit. See Item 1A of this report, Risk Factors We are subject to a Medicare cap amount for our hospice business. Our net patient service revenue and profitability could be adversely affected by limitations on Medicare payments. Reimbursement for Home Health Services Home health service revenue is primarily derived from Medicare reimbursement. Medicare pays home health agencies a predetermined base payment for the provision of home health services to Medicare beneficiaries. The payment is adjusted for the health condition and care needs of the beneficiary. The payment is also adjusted for the geographic differences in wages for home health agencies across the country. The adjustment for the health condition, or clinical characteristics, and service needs of the beneficiary is referred to as the case-mix adjustment. The home health PPS will provide home health agencies with payments for each 60-day episode of care for each beneficiary. If a beneficiary is still eligible for care after the end of the first episode, a second episode can begin. There are no limits to the number of episodes a beneficiary who remains eligible for the home health benefit can receive. While payment for each episode is adjusted to reflect the beneficiarys health condition and needs, a special outlier provision exists to ensure appropriate payment for those beneficiaries that have the most expensive care needs. Adjusting payment to reflect the home health agencys cost in caring for each beneficiary including the sickest, should ensure that all beneficiaries have access to home health services for which they are eligible. Government Regulation General Healthcare is an area of extensive and frequent regulatory change. Our owned limited liability companies and partnerships that provide healthcare services must comply with federal, state and local laws relating to, among other things, licensure, delivery and adequacy of medical care, distribution of pharmaceuticals, equipment, personnel, operating policies, fire prevention, rate setting, building codes and environmental 12 Table of Contents protection. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws may have a significant impact on our methods and costs of doing business. Governmental and other authorities periodically inspect our skilled nursing facilities and assisted living facilities and hospices to verify that we continue to comply with their various standards. We must pass these inspections to continue our licensing under state law, to obtain certification under the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and to continue our participation in the Veterans Administration program at some facilities. We can only participate in these third-party programs if inspections by regulatory authorities reveal that our facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable standards. In addition, regulatory authorities periodically inspect our recordkeeping and inventory control of controlled narcotics. From time to time, we, like others in the healthcare industry, may receive notices from federal and state regulatory authorities alleging that we failed to comply with applicable standards. These notices may require us to take corrective action, and may impose civil monetary penalties and other operating restrictions on us. If our facilities fail to comply with these directives or otherwise fail to comply substantially with licensure and certification laws, rules and regulations, we could lose our certification as a Medicare or Medicaid provider or lose our state licenses to operate the facilities. Civil and Criminal Fraud and Abuse Laws and Enforcement Federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws regulate both the provision of services to government program beneficiaries and the methods and requirements for submitting claims for services rendered to such beneficiaries. Under these laws, individuals and organizations can be penalized for submitting claims for services that are not provided, that have been inadequately provided, billed in an incorrect manner or other than as actually provided, not medically necessary, provided by an improper person, accompanied by an illegal inducement to utilize or refrain from utilizing a service or product, or billed or coded in a manner that does not otherwise comply with applicable governmental requirements. Penalties also may be imposed for violation of anti-kickback and patient referral laws. Federal and state governments have a range of criminal, civil and administrative sanctions available to penalize and remediate healthcare fraud and abuse, including exclusion of the provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, fines, criminal and civil monetary penalties and suspension of payments and, in the case of individuals, imprisonment. We have internal policies and procedures, including a compliance program designed to facilitate compliance with and to reduce exposure for violations of these and other laws and regulations. However, because enforcement efforts presently are widespread within the industry and may vary from region to region, there can be no assurance that our internal policies and procedures will significantly reduce or eliminate exposure to civil or criminal sanctions or adverse administrative determinations. Anti-Kickback Statute Provisions in Title XI of the SSA, commonly referred to as the Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibit the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of anything of value, directly or indirectly, in return for the referral of patients or arranging for the referral of patients, or in return for the recommendation, arrangement, purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by a federal healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid. Violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute is a felony, and sanctions for each violation include imprisonment of up to five years, criminal fines of up to $25,000, civil monetary penalties of up to $50,000 per act plus three times the amount claimed or three times the remuneration offered, and exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Many states have adopted similar prohibitions against kickbacks and other practices that are intended to induce referrals applicable to all payors. We are required under the Medicare conditions of participation and some state licensing laws to contract with numerous healthcare providers and practitioners, including physicians, hospitals and nursing homes, and to arrange for these individuals or entities to provide services to our patients. In addition, we have contracts with other suppliers, including pharmacies, ambulance services and medical equipment companies. Some of these 13 Table of Contents individuals or entities may refer, or be in a position to refer, patients to us, and we may refer, or be in a position to refer, patients to these individuals or entities. Certain safe harbor provisions have been created, and compliance with a safe harbor ensures that the contractual relationship will not be found in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute. We attempt to structure these arrangements in a manner that falls within one of the safe harbors. Some of these arrangements may not ultimately satisfy the applicable safe harbor requirements, but failure to meet the safe harbor does not necessarily mean an arrangement is illegal. We believe that our arrangements with providers, practitioners and suppliers are in compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. However, if any of our arrangements with third parties were to be challenged and found to be in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, and we could be excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly harm our business and financial condition. Stark Law Congress has also passed a significant prohibition against certain physician referrals of patients for healthcare services, commonly known as the Stark Law. The Stark Law prohibits a physician from making referrals for particular healthcare services, referred to as to entities with which the physician (or an immediate family member of the physician) has a financial relationship if the services are payable by Medicare or Medicaid. If an arrangement is covered by the Stark Law, the requirements of a Stark Law exception must be met for the physician to be able to make referrals to the entity for designated health services and for the entity to be able to bill for these services. Although the term designated health services does not include long-term care services, some of the services provided at our skilled nursing facilities and other related business units are classified as designated health services, including physical, speech and occupational therapy, pharmacy and hospice services. The term financial relationship is defined very broadly to include most types of ownership or compensation relationships. The Stark Law also prohibits the entity receiving the referral from seeking payment from the patient or the Medicare and Medicaid programs for services rendered pursuant to a prohibited referral. The Stark Law contains exceptions for certain physician ownership or investment interests in, and certain physician compensation arrangements with, certain entities. If a compensation arrangement or investment relationship between a physician, or immediate family member, and an entity satisfies the applicable requirements for a Stark Law exception, the Stark Law will not prohibit the physician from referring patients to the entity for designated health services. The exceptions for compensation arrangements cover employment relationships, personal services contracts and space and equipment leases, among others. If an entity violates the Stark Law, it could be subject to civil penalties of up to $15,000 per prohibited claim and up to $100,000 for knowingly entering into certain prohibited cross-referral schemes. The entity also may be excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. If the Stark Law were found to apply to our relationships with referring physicians and no exception under the Stark Law were available, we would be required to restructure these relationships or refuse to accept referrals for designated health services from these physicians. If we were found to have submitted claims to Medicare or Medicaid for services provided pursuant to a referral prohibited by the Stark Law, we would be required to repay any amounts we received from Medicare or Medicaid for those services and could be subject to civil monetary penalties. Further, we could be excluded from participating in Medicare and Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. If we were required to repay any amounts to Medicare or Medicaid, subjected to fines, or excluded from the Medicare and Medicaid Programs, our business and financial condition would be harmed significantly. As directed by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), on September 23, 2010, CMS released a self-referral disclosure protocol (SRDP) for potential or actual violations of the Stark Law. A disclosure pursuant to SRDP must include detailed and specific information, including a financial analysis setting forth the amount due and owing to the government for a violation, and the methodology used in calculating that 14 Table of Contents amount. Under SRDP, CMS states that it may, but is not required to, reduce the amounts due and owing for a Stark Law violation, and will consider the following factors in deciding whether to grant a reduction: (1) the nature and extent of the improper or illegal practice; (2) the timeliness of the self-disclosure; (3) the cooperation in providing additional information related to the disclosure; (4) the litigation risk associated with the matter disclosed; and (5) the financial position of the disclosing party. It is difficult at present to predict how the release of the SRDP will impact those entities who disclose violations of the Stark Law. Many states have physician relationship and referral statutes that are similar to the Stark Law. These laws generally apply regardless of the payor. We believe that our operations are structured to comply with the Stark Law and applicable state laws with respect to physician relationships and referrals. However, any finding that we are not in compliance with these laws could require us to change our operations or could subject us to penalties. This, in turn, could significantly harm our business and financial condition. False Claims Federal and state laws prohibit the submission of false claims and other acts that are considered fraudulent or abusive. The submission of claims to a federal or state healthcare program for items and services that are not provided as claimed may lead to the imposition of civil monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in state and federally-funded healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Allegations of poor quality of care can also lead to false claims suits as prosecutors allege that the provider has represented to the government healthcare program that adequate care is provided and the lack of quality care causes the service to be not provided as claimed. Under the federal False Claims Act, or FCA, actions against a provider can be initiated by the federal government or by a private party on behalf of the federal government. These private parties who are often referred to as qui tam relators or relators, are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government. Both direct enforcement activity by the government and qui tam relator actions have increased significantly in recent years. The use of private enforcement actions against healthcare providers has increased dramatically, in part because the relators are entitled to share in a portion of any settlement or judgment. This development has increased the risk that a healthcare company will have to defend a false claims action, pay fines or settlement amounts or be excluded from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of false claims laws. Many states have enacted similar laws providing for imposition of civil and criminal penalties for the filing of fraudulent claims. We believe that our operations comply with the FCA and similar state laws. However, if our claims practices were challenged and found to violate the applicable laws, any finding that we are not in compliance with these laws could require us to change our operations or could subject us to penalties or make us ineligible to participate in certain government funded healthcare programs, which could in turn significantly harm our business and financial condition. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, commonly known as HIPAA, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government-sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment as well as exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs. In addition, HIPAA established uniform standards governing the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protecting the privacy and security of certain individually identifiable health information. Three 15 Table of Contents standards have been promulgated under HIPAA with which we currently are required to comply. First, we must comply with HIPAAs standards for electronic transactions, which establish standards for common healthcare transactions, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures. We must also comply with the standards for the privacy of individually identifiable health information, which limit the use and disclosure of most paper and oral communications, as well as those in electronic form, regarding an individuals past, present or future physical or mental health or condition, or relating to the provision of healthcare to the individual or payment for that healthcare, if the individual can or may be identified by such information. Finally, we must comply with HIPAAs security standards, which require us to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of all electronic protected health information that we create, receive, maintain or transmit, to protect against reasonably anticipated threats or hazards to the security of such information, and to protect such information from unauthorized use or disclosure. The Health Information Technology for Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH Act, which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, expanded the privacy and security law requirements of HIPAA by requiring HIPAA-covered entities to notify affected individuals following the discovery of a breach of unsecured protected health information, or PHI. Business associates of HIPAA-covered entities also must notify HIPAA-covered entities of any breaches. The HITECH Act now makes breach of unsecured PHI subject to self-disclosure by covered entities to affected individuals, federal officials and in some instances, the media. The HITECH Act enhances the enforcement resources dedicated to ensuring HIPAA compliance and greatly increases the penalties for noncompliance. While we maintain policies and processes designed to ensure compliance with HIPAA and the HITECH Act, from time to time violations may occur, and as a result we may be required to self-disclose breaches of unsecured PHI or other matters. The result of such self disclosure may be the imposition of civil monetary penalties and other operating restrictions on us. We believe that we are in compliance with the HIPAA standards as amended by the HITECH Act and will continue to monitor our policies and procedures in an effort to make any necessary enhancements . However, if our practices, policies and procedures are found not to comply with these standards, we could be subject to the increased criminal penalties and civil sanctions under HIPAA and the HITECH Act. For additional detail regarding the HITECH Act, see Item 1A of this report, Risk Factors We are subject to extensive and complex laws and government regulations. If we are not operating in compliance with these laws and regulations or if these laws and regulations change, we could be required to make significant expenditures or change our operations in order to bring our facilities and operations into compliance. State Privacy Laws States also have laws that apply to the privacy of healthcare information. We must comply with these state privacy laws to the extent that they are more protective of healthcare information or provide additional protections not afforded by HIPAA. Where we are subject to these state laws, it may be necessary to modify our operations or procedures to comply with them, which may entail significant and costly changes for us. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable state privacy and security laws. However, if we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to additional penalties and/or sanctions. Federal Health Care Reform In addition to the provisions described above affecting Medicare and Medicaid participating providers, the PPACA enacted several reforms with respect to skilled nursing facilities and hospices, including payment measures to realize significant savings of federal and state funds by deterring and prosecuting fraud and abuse in both the Medicare and Medicaid programs. While many of the provisions of the PPACA will not take effect for several years or are subject to further refinement through the promulgation of regulations, some key provisions of the PPACA are presently effective. Enhanced CMPs and Escrow Provisions. Effective March 23, 2010, the PPACA includes expanded civil monetary penalty (CMP) provisions applicable to all Medicare and Medicaid providers. Sections 6402 and 6408 of the PPACA provide for the imposition of CMPs of up to $50,000 and, in 16 Table of Contents some cases, treble damages, for actions relating to alleged false statements to the federal government. Section 6111 of the PPACA also includes CMP provisions specific to skilled nursing facilities that in limited circumstances provide for up to a fifty percent (50%) reduction in CMPs where a facility self-reports and promptly corrects an alleged deficiency within ten (10) calendar days. In addition, the new CMP provisions specific to skilled nursing facilities provide that the Secretary of Health and Human Services may provide for the collection and placement of the CMP amount into an escrow account on the earlier of the date informal dispute resolution is completed or ninety (90) days after the imposition of the CMP. If an appeal is successful, the facility would receive a refund of the collected amounts with interest. This CMP escrow provision is a departure from prior policy, which only required remittance of CMP amounts following the final disposition of a CMP dispute. On July 12, 2010, CMS published a proposed rule implementing the PPACAs enhanced CMP and escrow provisions. It is anticipated that the final rule implementing these provisions will be issued to take effect by July 1, 2011. To the extent our facilities are assessed significant CMPs that are collected and placed into an escrow account pending lengthy appeals, such actions could adversely affect the results of operations. Nursing Home Transparency Requirements. In addition to expanded CMP provisions, the PPACA imposes substantial new transparency requirements for Medicare-participating nursing facilities. Existing law requires Medicare providers to disclose to CMS: (1) any person or entity that owns directly or indirectly an ownership interest of five percent (5%) or more in a provider; (2) officers and directors (if a corporation) and partners (if a partnership); and (3) holders of a mortgage, deed of trust, note or other obligation secured by the entity or the property of the entity. Section 6101 of the PPACA expands the information required to be disclosed to include: (4) the facilitys organizational structure; (5) additional information on officers, directors, trustees, and managing employees of the facility (including their names, titles, and start dates of services); and (6) information on any additional disclosable party of the facility. Managing employee is defined broadly as an individual (including a general manager, business manager, administrator, director, or consultant) who directly or indirectly manages, advises, or supervises any element of the practices, finances, or operations of the facility. Additional disclosable party of the facility is defined as any person or entity that (1) exercises operational, financial, or managerial control over the facility, or provides policies or procedures for the operations of the facility, or provides financial or cash management services to the facility; (2) leases or subleases real property to the facility, or owns a whole or partial interest equal to or exceeding five percent (5%) of the total cash value of such real property; or (3) provides management or administrative services, management or clinical consulting services, or accounting or financial services to the facility. Beginning March 23, 2010, facilities must have this information available for submission to the Secretary of Health & Human Services, the Office of the Inspector General, the state in which the facility is located, and the state long-term care ombudsman upon request. Thus, the new transparency provisions could result in the potential for greater government scrutiny and oversight of the ownership and investment structure for skilled nursing facilities, as well as more extensive disclosure of entities and individuals that comprise part of skilled nursing facilities ownership structure. Suspension of Payments During Pending Fraud Investigations. The PPACA also provides the federal government with expanded authority to suspend payment if a provider is investigated for allegations or issues of fraud. Section 6402 of the PPACA provides that, beginning March 23, 2010, Medicare and Medicaid payments may be suspended pending a credible investigation of fraud, unless the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines that good cause exists not to suspend payments. Credible investigation of fraud is undefined, although the Secretary must consult with the Office of the Inspector General in determining whether a credible investigation of fraud exists. This suspension authority creates a new mechanism for the federal government to suspend both Medicare and Medicaid payments for allegations of fraud, independent of whether a state exercises its authority to suspend Medicaid payments pending a fraud investigation. To the extent the Secretary applies this suspension of payments provision to one of our facilities for allegations of fraud, such a suspension could adversely affect the results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Overpayment Reporting and Repayment; Expanded False Claims Act Liability. The PPACA also enacted several important changes that expand potential liability under the federal False Claims Act. Effective March 23, 2010, Section 6402 of the PPACA provides that overpayments related to services provided to both Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries must be reported and returned to the applicable payor within the later of sixty (60) days of identification of the overpayment, or the date the corresponding cost report (if applicable) is due. Any overpayment retained after the deadline is considered an obligation for purposes of the federal False Claims Act. This new provision substantially tightens the repayment and reporting requirements generally associated with operations of health care providers to avoid FCA exposure. To the extent we incur additional operational costs to comply with the new overpayment reporting and repayment provision, such costs may adversely affect the results of operations. Community First Choice Option. Effective January 1, 2011, Section 2401 of the PPACA mandates that states choosing to provide home and community based services shall make them available to assist with activities of daily living, instrumental activities of daily living and health related tasks under a plan of care agreed upon by the individual and his/her representative. The PPACA then goes on to specify the models of delivery through which such services may be available and enumerates the types of services that may be covered. For states that elect to make coverage of home and community based services available as specified by the PPACA, FMAP is increased by six percentage points, and thus this Section incentivizes states to expand their home and community based services. The expansion of home and community based services has the potential to reduce the demand for the long-term care and nursing services that we provide. Removal of Barriers to Providing Home and Community Based Services. Also effective January 1, 2011, Section 2402 of the PPACA includes additional measures related to the expansion of community and home based services. It requires the Secretary to adopt regulations that will ensure that states will develop systems that allow beneficiaries to obtain, as well as maintain, non-institutional services, and have a say in the design of their treatment. This Section also authorizes states to expand coverage of community and home based services to individuals who would not otherwise be eligible for them. The provisions of the PPACA discussed above are examples of recently-enacted federal health reform provisions that we believe may have a material impact on the long-term care industry generally and on our business. However, the foregoing discussion is not intended to constitute, nor does it constitute, an exhaustive review and discussion of the PPACA. It is possible that other provisions of the PPACA may be interpreted, clarified, or applied to our facilities or operations in a way that could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations. Certificates of Need and Other Regulatory Matters Certain states administer a certificate of need program, which applies to the incurrence of capital expenditures, the offering of certain new institutional health services, the cessation of certain services and the acquisition of major medical equipment. Such legislation also stipulates requirements for such programs, including that each program be consistent with the respective state health plan in effect pursuant to such legislation and provide for penalties to enforce program requirements. To the extent that certificates of need or other similar approvals are required for expansion of our operations, either through facility acquisitions, expansion or provision of new services or other changes, such expansion could be affected adversely by the failure or inability to obtain the necessary approvals, changes in the standards applicable to such approvals or possible delays and expenses associated with obtaining such approvals. State Operating License Requirements Nursing homes, pharmacies, and hospices are required to be individually licensed or certified under applicable state law and as a condition of participation under the Medicare program. In addition, healthcare 18 Table of Contents professionals and practitioners are required to be licensed in most states. We believe that our operating companies that provide these services have all required regulatory approvals necessary for our current operations. The failure to obtain, retain or renew any required license could adversely affect our operations, including our financial results. Rehabilitation License Requirements Our rehabilitation therapy services operations are subject to various federal and state regulations, primarily regulations of individual practitioners. Therapists and other healthcare professionals employed by us are required to be individually licensed or certified under applicable state law. We take measures to ensure that our therapists and other healthcare professionals are properly licensed and participate in continuing education programs. The failure to obtain, retain or renew any required license or certifications by therapists or other healthcare professionals could adversely affect our operations, including our financial results. Regulation of our Joint Venture Institutional Pharmacy Our joint venture institutional pharmacy operations, which include medical equipment and supplies, are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, operational requirements, reimbursement, documentation, licensure, certification and regulation of pharmacies, pharmacists, drug compounding and manufacture and controlled substances. Institutional pharmacies are regulated under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, which are administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Under the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, which is administered by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, dispensers of controlled substances must register with the Drug Enforcement Administration, file reports of inventories and transactions and provide adequate security measures. Failure to comply with such requirements could result in civil or criminal penalties. The Medicare and Medicaid programs also establish certain requirements for participation of pharmacy suppliers. Our institutional pharmacy joint venture is also subject to federal and state laws that govern financial arrangements between healthcare providers, including the Anti-Kickback Statute. See Item 1 of this report, BusinessAnti-Kickback Statute . Competition Our skilled nursing facilities compete primarily on a local and regional basis with many long-term care providers, from national and regional chains to smaller providers owning as few as a single nursing center. We also compete under certain circumstances with inpatient rehabilitation facilities and long-term acute care hospitals. Our ability to compete successfully varies from location to location and depends on a number of factors, including the number of competing facilities in the local market, the types of services available, our local reputation for quality care of patients, the commitment and expertise of our staff and physicians, our local service offerings and treatment programs, the cost of care in each locality, and the physical appearance, location, age and condition of our facilities. We seek to compete effectively in each market by establishing a reputation within the local community for quality of care, attractive and comfortable facilities, and providing specialized healthcare with an emphasized focus on high-acuity patients. Programs targeting high-acuity patients, including our Express Recovery units, generally have a higher staffing level per patient than our other inpatient facilities and compete more directly with inpatient rehabilitation facilities and long-term acute-care hospitals. We believe that the average cost to a third-party payor for the treatment of our typical high-acuity patient is lower if that patient is treated in one of our skilled nursing facilities than if that same patient were to be treated in an inpatient rehabilitation facility or long-term acute-care hospital. 19 Table of Contents Our other services, such as assisted living facilities, rehabilitation therapy provided to third-party facilities, hospice care and home health services, and institutional pharmacy services, also compete with local, regional, and national companies. The primary competitive factors in these businesses are similar to those for our skilled nursing facilities and include reputation, cost of services, quality of clinical services, responsiveness to patient/resident needs, location and the ability to provide support in other areas such as third-party reimbursement, information management and patient recordkeeping. Increased competition could limit our ability to attract and retain patients, maintain or increase rates or to expand our business. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, may have greater brand recognition and may be more established in their respective communities than we are. Competing companies may also offer newer facilities or different programs or services than we do and may as a result be more attractive to our current patients, to potential patients and to referral sources. Some of our competitors may accept lower profit margins than we do, which could present significant price competition, particularly for managed care and private pay patients. With respect to hospice services, while non-profit organizations continue to run approximately two-thirds of all hospice programs, for-profit companies have recently begun to occupy a larger share of the hospice market. Increasing public awareness of hospice services, the aging of the U.S. population and favorable reimbursement by Medicare, which is the primary payor for hospice services, have contributed to the recent growth in the hospice care market. As more companies enter the market to provide hospice services, we will face increasing competitive pressure. Labor Our most significant operating cost is labor. Our labor costs consist of salaries, wages and benefits including workers compensation but excluding non-cash stock-based compensation expense. We seek to manage our labor costs by improving nurse staffing retention, maintaining competitive labor rates, and reducing reliance on overtime compensation and temporary nursing agency services. We believe that we staff appropriately, focusing primarily on the acuity level and day-to-day needs of our patients and residents. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 9,736 full-time equivalent employees and had eight collective bargaining agreements with unions covering approximately 418 full-time employees at eight of our facilities. Labor costs accounted for approximately 66.2%, 66.0% and 64.7% of our operating expenses (excluding impairment charges) from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We generally consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Risk Management We have developed a risk management program designed to stabilize our insurance and professional liability costs. As part of this program, we have implemented an arbitration agreement system at each of our facilities under which, upon admission, patients are requested (but not required) to execute an agreement that requires disputes to be arbitrated prior to filing a lawsuit. We believe that this program accelerates resolution of disputes and has significantly reduced our liability exposure and related costs. We have also established an incident reporting process that involves monthly follow-up with our facility administrators to monitor the progress of claims and losses. We believe that our emphasis on providing high-quality care and our attention to monitoring quality of care indicators has also helped to reduce our liability exposure and related costs. Insurance We maintain insurance for general and professional liability, workers compensation, employee benefits liability, property, casualty, directors and officers liability, inland marine, crime, boiler and machinery, automobile, employment practices liability and earthquake and flood. We believe that our insurance programs are 20 Table of Contents adequate and where there has been a direct transfer of risk to the insurance carrier, we do not recognize a liability in our consolidated financial statements. We self-insure a significant portion of our potential liabilities for several risks, including certain types of general and professional liability, workers compensation, and employee benefit insurance. To the extent our insurance coverage is insufficient or unavailable to cover losses that we incur that would otherwise be insurable, or to the extent that our estimates of anticipated liabilities that we self-insure are significantly lower than the actual self-insured liabilities that we incur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. General and Professional Liability Insurance Effective September 1, 2008, our California-based skilled nursing facility companies purchased individual general and professional liability insurance policies with a per occurrence and annual aggregate coverage limit of $1.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively, and an unaggregated $0.1 million per claim self-insured retention. These policies are renewable for up to three years. Effective September 1, 2008, we also had an excess liability policy with a $14.0 million per loss limit and an $18.0 million annual aggregate limit for losses arising from claims in excess of $1.1 million for our California skilled nursing facilities and in excess of $1.0 million for all of our other businesses. The policy is renewable for up to three years. We retain an unaggregated self-insured retention of $1.0 million per claim for all Texas, New Mexico and Nevada businesses, our California businesses other than skilled nursing facility companies, and our Davenport, Iowa facility. Effective January 1, 2010 all of our facilities located in Kansas, Missouri and Iowa were added to this excess policy with the same unaggregated self-insured retention of $1.0 million per claim for all of these facilities. Effective May 1, 2010 all of hospice and home health businesses located in Arizona, Idaho, Montana and Nevada that we acquired in the Hospice/Home Health Acquisition were added to this excess policy which provides $14.0 million in excess coverage in addition to the $1.0 million per claim/$3.0 million annual aggregate claims made coverage which was in place for these businesses at the time of their acquisition. Until December 31, 2009, our Kansas and Iowa businesses were insured on an occurrence basis with a per occurrence and annual aggregate coverage limit of $1.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively. There are no applicable self-insurance retentions or deductibles under these contracts. Until December 31, 2009, our Missouri businesses were underwritten on a claims-made basis with no applicable self-insured retentions or deductibles and have a per occurrence and annual aggregate coverage limit of $1.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively. Workers Compensation We maintain workers compensation insurance as statutorily required. Most of our commercial workers compensation insurance purchased is loss sensitive in nature, except as noted below. As a result, we are responsible for adverse loss development. Additionally, we self-insure the first unaggregated $1.0 million per workers compensation claim for all California, New Mexico and Nevada businesses. We have elected not to carry workers compensation insurance in Texas and our Texas businesses may be liable for negligence claims that are asserted against them by our Texas-based employees. We have purchased guaranteed cost policies for our businesses in Kansas, Missouri, Iowa, and our recently acquired Nevada, Arizona, Idaho, and Montana based hospice and home health operations. There are no deductibles associated with these programs. We recognize a liability in our consolidated financial statements for our estimated self-insured workers compensation risks. Historically, our estimated liabilities have been sufficient to cover actual claims, but there can be no assurances that our current or future estimates will be sufficient. Employee Benefit Insurance We are self-insured for certain of our healthcare, dental and vision plans that we offer to our employees, subject to stop loss insurance with an annual $0.3 million deductible per participant, which limits our exposure to large claims. We accrue our self-insured risks costs in the period in which such costs are incurred, including an 21 Table of Contents estimate of incurred but not reported claims. Other risks are insured and carry deductible losses of varying amounts. An increasing frequency of large claims or deterioration in overall claim experience could increase the volatility of expenses for such self-insured risks. Environmental Matters We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. As a healthcare provider, we face regulatory requirements in areas of air and water quality control, medical and low-level radioactive waste management and disposal, asbestos management, response to mold and lead-based paint in our facilities and employee safety. In our role as owner and/or operator of our facilities (including our leased facilities), we also may be required to investigate and remediate hazardous substances that are located on the property, including any such substances that may have migrated off, or discharged or transported from the property. Part of our operations involves the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and/or discharge of hazardous, infectious, toxic, flammable and other hazardous materials, wastes, pollutants or contaminants. These activities may result in damage to individuals, property or the environment; may interrupt operations and/or increase costs; may result in legal liability, damages, injunctions or fines; may result in investigations, administrative proceedings, penalties or other governmental agency actions; and may not be covered by insurance. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety requirements. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur environmental liabilities in the future, and such liabilities may result in material adverse consequences to our operations and financial condition. Customers No individual customer or client accounts for a significant portion of our revenue. We do not expect that the loss of a single customer or client would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Such reports and other information filed by us with the SEC are available free of charge at the investor relations section of our website at www.skilledhealthcaregroup.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Copies are also available, without charge, or by writing to Skilled Healthcare Group Investor Communications, 27442 Portola Parkway, Suite 200, Foothill Ranch, CA, 92610. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The inclusion of our website address in this annual report does not include or incorporate by reference the information on our website into this annual report. Company History Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. was incorporated as SHG Holding Solutions, Inc. in Delaware in October 2005. Our predecessor company acquired Summit Care Corporation, a publicly-traded long-term care company with nursing facilities in California, Texas and Arizona, in 1998. In October 2001, our predecessor and 19 of its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and in November 2001, our remaining three companies also filed voluntary petitions for protection under Chapter 11. In August 2003, we emerged from bankruptcy, paying or restructuring all debt holders in full, paying all accrued interest expenses and issuing 5.0% of our common stock to former bondholders. In connection with our emergence from bankruptcy, we engaged in a series of transactions, including the disposition in March 2005 of our California pharmacy business, selling two institutional pharmacies in Southern California. 22 Table of Contents In February 2007, we effected the merger of our predecessor company, which was our wholly-owned subsidiary, with and into us. We were the surviving company in the merger and changed our name from SHG Holding Solutions, Inc. to Skilled Healthcare Group, Inc. As a result of the merger, we assumed all of the rights and obligations of our predecessor company. In June 2009, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California granted entry of a final decree closing the aforementioned Chapter 11 cases. Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements made by us in this report and in other reports and statements released by us that are not historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Disclosures that use words such as we believe, anticipate, estimate, intend, could, plan, expect, project or the negative of these, as well as similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of our senior management based on our current estimates, expectations, forecasts and projections, and include comments that express our current opinions about trends and factors that may impact future operating results. Such statements rely on a number of assumptions concerning future events, many of which are outside of our control, and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements, expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements, whether made in this report or elsewhere, should be considered in the context of the various disclosures made by us about our business and other matters including, without limitation, the risk factors discussed below. We expressly disclaim any duty to update the forward-looking statements and other information contained in this report, except as required by law. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks and uncertainties. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and uncertainties, and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. These and other risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. The following risk factors are not an exhaustive list of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. New considerations may emerge or changes to the risks and uncertainties described below could occur that could materially and adversely affect our business. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates, or changes in the rules governing the Medicare program could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Medicare is our largest source of revenue, accounting for 37.1% and 35.0% of our total revenue during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, many private payors base their reimbursement rates on the published Medicare rates or, in the case of our rehabilitation therapy services customers, are themselves reimbursed by Medicare. Accordingly, if Medicare reimbursement rates are reduced or fail to increase as quickly as our costs, or if there are changes in the rules governing the Medicare program that are disadvantageous to our business or industry, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. The Medicare program and its reimbursement rates and rules are subject to frequent change. These include statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments (including retroactive adjustments), administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates at which Medicare reimburses us for our services. Budget pressures often lead the federal government to reduce or place limits on reimbursement rates under Medicare. Implementation of these and other types of measures has in the past and could in the future result in substantial reductions in our revenue and operating margins. Prior reductions in governmental reimbursement rates partially contributed to our bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in October 2001. 23 Table of Contents In addition, the federal government often changes the rules governing the Medicare program, including those governing reimbursement. Changes that could adversely affect our business include: administrative or legislative changes to base rates or the bases of payment; limits on the services or types of providers for which Medicare will provide reimbursement; the reduction or elimination of annual rate increases; or an increase in co-payments or deductibles payable by beneficiaries. Given the history of frequent revisions to the Medicare program and its reimbursement rates and rules, we may not continue to receive reimbursement rates from Medicare that sufficiently compensate us for our services or, in some instances, cover our operating cots. Limits on reimbursement rates or the scope of services being reimbursed could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. For a more comprehensive description of recent changes in reimbursement rates provided by Medicare, see Item 1 of this report, BusinessSources of ReimbursementMedicare . We are subject to a Medicare cap amount for our hospice business. Our net patient service revenue and profitability could be adversely affected by limitations on Medicare payments. Overall payments made by Medicare to us on a per hospice basis are subject to a cap amount. Total Medicare payments received for services rendered from November 1 through October 31 by each of our Medicare-certified programs during this period are compared to the cap amount for the relevant period. Payments in excess of the cap amount must be returned by us to Medicare. The cap amount for hospice services is calculated by multiplying the number of beneficiaries electing hospice care from October 1 through September 30 by a statutory Medicare cap amount that is indexed for inflation. The Medicare cap amount is reduced proportionately for Medicare patients who transferred into or out of our hospice programs and either received or will receive hospice services from another hospice provider. The hospice cap amount is computed on a hospice-specific basis. Our net patient service revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 was reduced by approximately $2.1 million as a result of our hospice programs exceeding the Medicare cap. In 2010 our hospice program did not exceed the Medicare cap limit. Our ability to comply with this limitation depends on a number of factors relating to a given hospice program, including number of admissions, average length of stay, mix in level of care and Medicare patients that transfer into and out of our hospice programs. Our revenue and profitability may be materially reduced if we are unable to comply with this and other Medicare payment limitations. We cannot assure you that additional hospice programs will not exceed the cap amount in the future or that our estimate of the Medicare cap contractual adjustment will not differ materially from the actual Medicare cap amount. Amounts that we receive in excess of the cap are required to be repaid to Medicare. The accuracy of our estimates of the Medicare cap contractual adjustment is affected by many factors, including: the actual number of Medicare beneficiary patient admissions and discharges and the dates of occurrence of each; changes in the average length of stay at our hospice programs; fluctuations in admissions and discharges at our hospice programs; possible enrollment of beneficiaries in our hospice programs who may have previously elected Medicare hospice coverage through another hospice program and whose Medicare cap amount is prorated for the days of service for the previous hospice admission; fiscal intermediary disallowances of certain beneficiaries and changes in calculation methodology; 24 Table of Contents uncertainty surrounding length of patient stay in various patient groups, particularly with respect to non-cancer patients; and the need to estimate, for each fiscal year, the Medicare cap amount in advance of CMS determination of the actual Medicare cap for the relevant period. We actively monitor the Medicare cap amount and seek to implement corrective measures as necessary. We maintain what we believe are adequate allowances in the event that we exceed the Medicare cap in any give fiscal year; however, because of the many variables involved in estimating the Medicare cap contractual adjustment that are beyond our control, we cannot assure you that we will not increase or decrease our estimated contractual allowance in the future. We expect the federal and state governments to continue their efforts to contain growth in Medicaid expenditures, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We receive a significant portion of our revenue from Medicaid, which accounted for 31.7% and 31.9% of our total revenue during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, many private payors for our third-party rehabilitation therapy services are reimbursed under the Medicaid program for services that we provided to patients. Accordingly, if Medicaid reimbursement rates are reduced or fail to increase as quickly as our costs, or if there are changes in the rules governing the Medicaid program that are disadvantageous to our business or industry, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Medicaid is a state-administered program financed by both state funds and matching federal funds. Medicaid spending has increased rapidly in recent years, becoming a significant component of state budgets. This, combined with slower state revenue growth, has led both the federal government and many states to institute measures aimed at controlling the growth of Medicaid spending. For example, the DRA included several measures that were expected to reduce Medicare and Medicaid payments to skilled nursing facilities by $100.0 million over five years (2006-2010). These included limiting the circumstances under which an individual may become financially eligible for nursing home services under Medicaid, which could result in fewer patients being able to afford our services. Moreover, the federal Medicaid Integrity Contractor (MIC) program is increasing the scrutiny placed on Medicaid payments, and could result in recoupments of alleged overpayments in an effort to rein in Medicaid spending; the Mid-Session Review of the presidential budget submitted for federal fiscal year 2010 included, through federal fiscal year 2014, $490.0 million in savings from improving Medicare and Medicaid program integrity, and another $175.0 million in Medicaid savings through implementation of coding edits to ensure appropriate Medicaid payments. It is uncertain what proportion of these estimated cost savings will come from recoupments against long-term care facilities. However, despite the savings projected from effectively reducing payments to Medicaid providers, we note that the Mid-Session Review of the presidential budget submitted for federal fiscal year 2010 also included an outlay of $1.5 billion for Medicaid spending through federal fiscal year 2014, with a net increase in Medicaid outlays of $48.0 billion during the same time period. In fiscal year 2010, for example, the federal share of current law Medicaid outlays is expected to be $284.0 billion, a $26.0 billion (10.1%) increase over projected fiscal year 2009 spending. Some of the projected increases in Medicaid outlays are pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, passed in February 2009, which contained several temporary measures expected to increase Medicaid expenditures. In order to qualify for increases in Medicaid matching funds from the federal government, states cannot implement eligibility standards, methodologies or procedures that are more restrictive than those in effect as of July 1, 2008 and, in addition, must comply with prompt pay requirements when making Medicaid payments. We can provide no assurances regarding the temporary measures actual effect on Medicaid claims payment in any particular state, whether these temporary measures will eventually be made permanent, or what effect, if any, they will have on our business. Despite these temporary measures and the general projected increase in overall Medicaid expenditures over the next five years, we expect continued efforts to contain Medicaid expenditures generally. 25 Table of Contents The California Legislature initially had extended its facility specific cost based Medi-Cal long-term care reimbursement system enacted through Assembly Bill 1629 (A.B. 1629) through the 2009-2010 and 2010-2011 rate years with a growth rate of up to five percent for both years. However, due to Californias severe budget crisis in 2009, on July 24, 2009, the California Legislature passed a budget balancing proposal that eliminated this five percent growth cap by amending the then-current statute to provide that, for the 2009-2010 and 2010-2011 rate years, the weighted average Medi-Cal reimbursement rate paid to long-term care facilities shall not exceed the weighted average Medi-Cal reimbursement rate for the 2008-2009 rate year. Despite the California Legislatures decision in 2009 to hold the growth cap flat for the 2010-2011 rate year and Californias continuing budget crisis in 2010, on October 19, 2010, the California Legislature passed a budget trailer bill that extended A.B. 1629 through the 2011-2012 rate year and ameliorated the 2009 growth cap reductions. The Legislature amended the current statute to provide that, for the 2010-2011 rate year, the weighted average Medi-Cal reimbursement rate paid to long-term care facilities shall not exceed 3.93% if the increase in the federal medical assistance percentage (FMAP) pursuant to the federal American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) (Public Law 111-5) is extended for the entire 2010-2011 rate year, or 3.14%, if the increase in the FMAP pursuant to the ARRA is not extended for that period of time, plus the projected cost of complying with new state or federal mandates. In addition, the budget trailer bill provided that for the 2011-2012 rate year, the weighted average Medi-Cal reimbursement rate paid to long-term care facilities shall not exceed 2.4%, plus the projected cost of complying with new state or federal mandates. Moreover, the budget trailer bill extended a change to the A.B. 1629 long-term care reimbursement system that was implemented in July of 2009 as a result of Californias 2009 budget crisis; namely, the amounts that California nursing facilities will pay to Medi-Cal in quality assurance fees for the 2009-2010 to 2011-2012, inclusive, rate years will include Medicare revenue in the calculation of the quality assurance fee that nursing facilities pay under A.B. 1629. Californias Governor signed the budget trailer bill into law on October 21, 2010. Despite its passage on October 21, 2010, these changes in reimbursement to long-term care facilities will be implemented retroactively to the beginning of the calendar quarter in which California submitted its request for federal approval to CMS. Most recently, on January 10, 2011, California Governor Jerry Brown sent the Legislature a proposed Budget for 2011-12. The Budget proposes to reduce Medi-Cal provider payments by 10%, including payments to long-term care facilities. Since a significant portion of our revenue is generated from our operation in California of nursing facilities and long-term care facilities that serve Medi-Cal beneficiaries, these Budget reductions, if approved, could adversely affect our net patient service revenue and profitability. Given that Medicaid outlays are a significant component of state budgets, we expect continuing cost containment pressures on Medicaid outlays for skilled nursing facilities in the states in which we operate. Additional states in which we operate, most notably Texas, have also proposed Medicaid spending reductions in response to state budget issues. Recent federal government proposals could limit the states use of provider tax programs to generate revenue for their Medicaid expenditures, which could result in a reduction in our reimbursement rates under Medicaid. To generate funds to pay for the increasing costs of the Medicaid program, many states utilize financial arrangements commonly referred to as provider taxes. Under provider tax arrangements, states collect taxes from healthcare providers and then use the revenue to pay the providers as a Medicaid expenditure, which allows the states to then claim additional federal matching funds on the additional reimbursements. Under current federal law, the maximum allowable provider tax is 5.5% of the providers total revenue (scheduled to increase to 6.0% in October 2011). There can be no assurance that federal law will continue to provide matching federal funds on state Medicaid expenditures funded through provider taxes, or that the current caps on provider taxes will not be reduced. Any discontinuance or reduction in federal matching of provider tax-related Medicaid expenditures could have a significant and adverse effect on states Medicaid expenditures, and as a result could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue we receive from Medicare and Medicaid is subject to potential retroactive reduction. Payments we receive from Medicare and Medicaid can be retroactively adjusted after a new examination during the claims settlement process or as a result of post-payment audits. Payors may disallow our requests for 26 Table of Contents reimbursement based on determinations that certain costs are not reimbursable because either adequate or additional documentation was not provided or because certain services were not covered or deemed to be medically necessary. Significant adjustments to our Medicare or Medicaid revenues could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Through a demonstration project in New York, Florida and California, mandated by the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, and effective March 2005 through March 2008, third-party recovery audit contractors, or RACs, operating in the Medicare Integrity Program work to identify alleged Medicare overpayments based on the medical necessity of rehabilitation services that have been provided. Each RAC is paid based on a percentage of overpayments and underpayments recovered. In September 2008, CMS issued a report on the RAC demonstration in which it indicated its intent to gradually implement a permanent nationwide RAC program by January 1, 2010 with a number of modifications that respond to issues identified in the demonstration. On October 6, 2008, CMS announced the selection of the four new RAC contractors and a RAC expansion schedule indicating phased implementation of the permanent programs beginning on October 1, 2008. On November 4, 2008, CMS announced a stay of the program pending further notice and on February 4, 2009, CMS announced that they have lifted the stop work order and will continue with implementation. The scope of claims subject to review under the permanent RAC program includes claims up to three years old but beginning with claims from October 1, 2007 or later. The RACs have made certain revenue recapments from our California skilled nursing facilities and third-party skilled nursing facilities to which we provide rehabilitation therapy services. As of December 31, 2010, we fully reserved all denied claims. Health reform legislation could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for healthcare services in the United States. These initiatives have ranged from proposals to fundamentally change federal and state healthcare reimbursement programs, including the provision of comprehensive healthcare coverage to the public under governmental funded programs, to minor modifications to existing programs. The PPACA, which was passed in 2010 and has implementation timing and costs and regulatory implications that are still uncertain in many respects, is among the most comprehensive and notable of these legislative efforts. See Item 1 of this report, BusinessGovernment RegulationFederal Health Care Reform for more information regarding the PPACA. The ultimate content or timing of any future health reform legislation, and its impact on us, is impossible to predict. If significant reforms are made to the U.S. healthcare system, those reforms may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we incur considerable administrative costs in monitoring the changes made within the various reimbursement programs in which we participate determining the appropriate actions to be taken in response to those changes and implementing the required actions to meet the new requirements and minimize the repercussions of the changes to our organization, reimbursement rates and costs. 27 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive and complex laws and government regulations. If we are not operating in compliance with these laws and regulations or if these laws and regulations change, we could be required to make significant expenditures or change our operations in order to bring our facilities and operations into compliance. We, along with other companies in the healthcare industry, are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: licensure and certification; adequacy and quality of healthcare services; qualifications of healthcare and support personnel; quality of medical equipment; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and claims processing; relationships with physicians and other referral sources and recipients; constraints on protective contractual provisions with patients and third-party payors; operating policies and procedures; addition of facilities and services; and billing for services. Many of these laws and regulations are expansive, and we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. In addition, many of these laws and regulations evolve to include additional obligations and restrictions. Certain other regulatory developments, such as revisions in the building code requirements for assisted living and skilled nursing facilities, mandatory increases in scope and quality of care to be offered to residents, revisions in licensing and certification standards, and regulations restricting those we can hire could also have a material adverse effect on us. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. One development potentially restricting those we may hire was a decision on November 3, 2010 by the Physical Therapy Board of California (PT Board) to rescind their 1990 Resolution which determined that the offering of physical therapy services by a corporation, not organized as a professional corporation, was permitted by the Physical Therapy Practice Act, which is the California statute governing the provision of physical therapy within the state. This decision essentially prohibits employment of a physical therapist by any professional corporation except those owned by physical therapists and Naturopaths. In its decision, the PT Board indicates its intent to commence enforcing the opinion immediately. However, it noted that those corporations formed before November 3, 2010, as a result of the 1990 Resolution, will not be subject to discipline by the Board. We have subsidiary corporations that employ physical therapists, but are not owned by physical therapists. These corporations were formed before November 3, 2010. While the PT Board noted that it will not subject such corporations to discipline, the PT Board may take the position that these corporations will not continue to qualify for the exception from discipline if they perform certain acts, such as forming subsidiaries, entering into mergers, or even hiring new employees. Additionally, the PT Board could eventually decide that it will subject all lay corporations that employ physical therapists to discipline. If this occurs, we may have to significantly restructure the operations of our company to conform to these requirements. 28 Table of Contents In addition, federal and state government agencies have increased and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare companies and, in particular, skilled nursing facilities. This includes investigations of: fraud and abuse; quality of care; financial relationships with referral sources; and the medical necessity of services provided. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, the intensity of federal and state enforcement actions or the extent and size of any potential sanctions, fines or penalties. Changes in the regulatory framework, our failure to obtain or renew required regulatory approvals or licenses or to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the suspension or revocation of our licenses or our disqualification from participation in federal and state reimbursement programs, or the imposition of other enforcement sanctions, fines or penalties could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Furthermore, should we lose licenses or certifications for a number of our facilities as a result of regulatory action or otherwise, we could be deemed to be in default under some of our agreements, including agreements governing outstanding indebtedness and the report of such issues at one of our facilities could harm our reputation for quality care and lead to a reduction in our patient referrals and ultimately our revenue and operating income. For a discussion of the material government regulations applicable to our business, see Item 1 of this report, BusinessGovernment Regulation . We face periodic reviews, audits and investigations under federal and state government programs and contracts. These audits could have adverse findings that may negatively affect our business. As a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, we are subject to various governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with these programs and applicable laws and regulations. Managed care payors may also reserve the right to conduct audits. An adverse review, audit or investigation could result in: refunding amounts we have been paid pursuant to the Medicare or Medicaid programs or from managed care payors; state or federal agencies imposing fines, penalties and other sanctions on us; temporary suspension of payment for new patients to the facility; decertification or exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs or one or more managed care payor networks; damage to our reputation; the revocation of a facilitys license; and loss of certain rights under, or termination of, our contracts with managed care payors. We have in the past and will likely in the future be required to refund amounts we have been paid as a result of these reviews, audits and investigations. Significant legal actions, which are commonplace in our industry, could subject us to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The long-term care industry has experienced an increasing trend in the number and severity of litigation claims involving punitive damages and settlements. We believe that this trend is endemic to the industry and is a result of the increasing number of large judgments, including large punitive damage awards, against long-term 29 Table of Contents care providers in recent years resulting in an increased awareness by plaintiffs lawyers of potentially large recoveries. While some states have enacted tort reform legislation that limits plaintiffs recoveries in some respects, should our professional liability and general liability increase significantly in the future, we may not be able to increase our revenue sufficiently to cover the cost increases, our operating income could suffer, and we may not be able to meet our obligations to repay our liabilities. For a discussion of recent litigation claims against us, including the Lavender Case, see Note 12, Commitments and ContingenciesLitigation, to the consolidated financial statements under Part IV, Item 15 of this report. We also are subject from time to time to lawsuits under the federal False Claims Act and comparable state laws for submitting allegedly fraudulent or otherwise inappropriate bills for services to the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These lawsuits, which may be initiated by regulatory authorities as well as private party whistleblowers, can involve significant monetary damages, fines, attorney fees and the award of bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits, as well as to the government programs. For a discussion of recent amendments to the False Claims Act, see Item 1 of this report, BusinessGovernment RegulationFalse Claims . We could face significant financial difficulties as a result of one or more of the risks discussed above, which could cause us to seek protection under bankruptcy laws or could cause our creditors to have a receiver appointed on our behalf. We could face significant financial difficulties if Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement rates are reduced, patient demand for our services is reduced or we incur unexpected liabilities or expenses, including in connection with legal actions, sanctions, penalties or fines. This financial difficulty could cause us to seek protection under bankruptcy laws or could cause our creditors to have a receiver appointed on our behalf. A significant portion of our business is concentrated in certain geographical markets, and an economic downturn or changes in the laws affecting our business in those markets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In 2010, we received approximately 41.9% and 23.2% of our revenue from operations in California and Texas, respectively, and in 2009, we received approximately 44.3% and 25.2% of our revenue from operations in California and Texas, respectively. Accordingly, economic conditions and changes in state healthcare spending prevailing in either of these markets could affect the ability of our patients and third-party payors to reimburse us for our services, either through a reduction of the tax base used to generate state funding of Medicaid programs, an increase in the number of indigent patients eligible for Medicaid benefits, changes in state funding levels or healthcare programs or other factors. For instance, as a result of state budget shortfalls in California, in January 2011 the state Governor proposed significant cuts in a variety of state programs, including Medi-Cal. A continued or prolonged economic downturn, significant changes in state healthcare spending, or changes in the laws affecting our business in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. We produce our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of GAAP. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, to help mitigate the risk of fraud and to operate successfully. We are required by federal securities laws to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. See Item 9A of this report,