Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis set forth below should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included under Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, together with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2024. Forward Looking Statements This report contains certain statements of a forward-looking nature relating to future events or future performance. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the only means of identifying forward-looking statements. Prospective investors are cautioned that such statements are only predictions and actual events or results may differ materially. In evaluating such statements, prospective investors should specifically consider various factors identified in this report and any matters set forth under Part I, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. For purposes of this Quarterly Report, the terms we, us, our Genasys and the Company refer to Genasys Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a global provider of Protective Communications solutions, including our Genasys Protect software platform and Long Range Acoustic Device (LRAD) products. Our unified software platform receives information from a wide variety of sensors and Internet-of-Things (IoT) inputs to collect real-time information on developing and active emergency situations. Genasys uses this information to create and disseminate alerts, warnings, notifications, and instructions through multiple channels before, during, and after public safety and enterprise threats, critical events, and other crisis situations. Genasys Protect is a comprehensive portfolio of Protective Communications software and hardware systems serving federal governments and agencies; state and local governmental agencies, and education (SLED); and enterprise organizations in sectors including but not limited to oil and gas, utilities, manufacturing, automotive, and healthcare. Genasys Protect solutions have a diverse range of applications, including emergency warning and mass notification for public safety; critical event management for enterprise companies; de-escalation for defense and law enforcement; critical infrastructure protection; zone-based planning for accelerated, precise emergency response; secure and compliant cross-agency collaboration;and automated detection of real-time threats such as active shooters and severe weather. LRAD products broadcast audible voice messages with exceptional vocal clarity from close range to 5,500 meters. We have a history of successfully delivering innovative products, systems, and solutions for mission critical situations, pioneering the acoustic hailing device (AHD) market with the introduction of our first LRAD long-range communication systems in 2002 and creating the first multi-directional, voice-based public safety mass notification systems in 2012. Building on our proven, best in class, and reliable solutions, we offer the first and only unified, end-to-end Protective Communications platform. Software Products The Genasys Protect Platform The Complete Protective Communications Platform The Genasys Protect platform provides a full suite of Protective Communications tools for all hazards, designed to provide targeted emergency communication, data-driven decision making, secure inter-agency collaboration, and more. Genasys Protect help to enable preparedness, responsiveness, and collaboration to keep people, assets, and operations protected against the impacts of natural disasters, terrorism, violent civil unrest, and other dangerous situations, as well as power failures, facility shutdowns, and other non-emergency operational disruptions. 1. Proven Technology: Genasys solutions have been on the front lines for more than 40 years, providing targeted communications designed to ensure the right people get the right message - right away. 2. Modular Suite: Built on open standards, Genasys software and hardware systems are designed to easily integrate, whether using the full Genasys suite or complementing the critical event management platforms customers already have in place. 3. Predictive Simulation: Genasys Protect is designed to permit customers to test response plans preemptively with advanced simulation of evacuation-level events, including fires and floods, and their impact on infrastructure, including traffic patterns and perimeter establishment. 4. Unified Viewpoint: One common safety operating picture provides real-time visibility into our customers people, assets, and environment by combining first-party data from asset / public safety-management platforms and IoT sensors with 26 third-party data sources, including the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Homeland Security, and more. 5. Unmatched Precision: Customized zone mapping enables targeting of mass notifications at the street level, making it easier to sequence response areas from most to least critical. 6. Multichannel: Genasys Protect is designed to allow operators to saturate their notification area by simultaneously alerting people across location-based SMS, CBC mobile push, text, email, social media, TV, radio, digital displays and acoustic devices. 7. Network Effect: Implementation in neighboring municipalities and across public and private-sector organizations within the same municipality extends coverage and enables greater precision when notifying people of threats. Genasys ALERT Genasys ALERT (ALERT) is an interactive, cloud-based Software as a Service (SaaS) solution that is designed to enable SLED and enterprise customers to send critical information to at-risk individuals or groups when an emergency occurs. ALERT acts as both a communications input and output, receiving information from state-of-the-art sensors and emergency services, and quickly relaying notifications, alerts, and instructions to at-risk populations and first responders. ALERT communications in public spaces can be enhanced via Genasys ACOUSTICS - connected, voice broadcast speakers - while ALERT communications among first responders and emergency personnel can be augmented and accelerated with Genasys CONNECT. ALERT clients can create and send critical, verified, and secure notifications and messages that are geographically specific and targeted using location-based SMS, CBC mobile push, text, email, social media, TV, radio, digital displays and acoustic devices, panic buttons, desktop alerts, TV, social media, and more. Additionally, Genasys is a certified provider of Integrated Public Alert and Warning System (IPAWS) notifications. IPAWS is the federal public notification platform for the United States, which ALERT customers can use to deliver critical communications in multiple languages to specific populations. Similarly, enterprise customers are able to send critical communications to employees, contractors, visitors, or groups based on geographic location or team status. Enterprises often use ALERT to distribute targeted notifications to customers, including billing updates, downtime notices, and more. Operated and controlled via a single dashboard that includes two-way polling, duress buttons, field check-ins and recipient locations, ALERT integrates with various data sources, including sensors, panic buttons, emergency services, active directories, human resources, visitor management, and building control systems to find and deliver safety alerts and notifications to residents, employees, staff, contractors, temporary workers, and visitors. ALERT sends targeted messages based on geographic location, permitting relevant information and instructions to be sent to the appropriate populations. Emergency managers can prepare for natural or man-made disasters by developing evacuation plans that map routes, shelters, traffic control locations, and road closures. This information is easily shared with the public and reduces the time it takes to execute emergency evacuations and conduct orderly repopulations. Auto-Discovery, an innovative feature of the platform, locates and connects with anyone on a wired or wireless network in a fixed area with no opt-in required. When discovered, ALERT anonymizes all recipient information and data. When an emergency occurs, these tools allow at-risk groups or individuals to be notified as quickly as possible without sacrificing their privacy. In addition to disseminating alerts and notifications, ALERT uses two-way communication tools, including polls and check-ins to receive feedback for enterprise clients. With direct feedback, operators can survey the safety and status of at-risk individuals, learn of developments, update notifications and/or instructions in response to new information, and more. Similarly, enterprise customers are able to send critical communications to at-risk employees, contractors, visitors, or groups based on geographic location or team status. Operated and controlled via a single dashboard that includes two-way polling, duress buttons, field check-ins and recipient locations, ALERT integrates with various data sources, including sensors, emergency services, active directories, human resources, visitor management, and building control systems to find and deliver safety alerts and notifications to residents, employees, staff, contractors, temporary workers, and visitors. Genasys EVAC Genasys EVAC (EVAC) - enables responding agencies to react swiftly, make collaborative decisions, and communicate event status in real time to other agencies, businesses, and the public. EVAC determines and communicates the proper scope of a response or evacuation by replacing guesswork with data-driven, zone-based intelligence. EVAC enhances safety levels for first responders, communities, and large campuses by providing: Intelligent zones to improve evacuation planning and communication. EVAC users can build, edit, and act upon geographical location data, including shelters, facilities, and traffic; Modeling behaviors to plan for effective responses and/or evacuation scenarios covering emergencies that include wildfires, floods, active shooters, hurricanes, and more; Actionable communication through the Genasys Protect mobile app to keep people informed before, during, and after a critical event; 27 A common operating picture across agencies to reduce response times as much as 90%; and Targeted notifications and updates to community members through a public website and free mobile app. Genasys CONNECT Genasys CONNECT (CONNECT) is a leading cross-agency, Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) compliant, collaboration platform that streamlines and secures team and one-on-one communications for first responders and public safety agencies. With real-time intelligence sharing that exceeds regulatory privacy requirements for public agencies, CONNECTs instant communication platform empowers first responders and public safety personnel to collaborate and share information in a single space with text, videos, images, and audio from any location. CONNECT provides a secure space where professionals can exchange information, make decisions, and collaborate with trust in data security. Record retention policies drive compliance that allows agencies and personnel to communicate in confidence. Enabling public safety professionals to collaborate with other agencies throughout their region, state, and country, CONNECT provides real-time interoperability to address critical events and crisis situations more quickly through coordinated efforts. Compliant with all federal and state-level legal requirements for public safety communications, CONNECT data is protected and secured through high-level data encryption within a secure, U.S. based, government-only cloud environment. Hardware Products Genasys ACOUSTICS ACOUSTICS unites Genasys next generation of mass notification speaker systems with Genasys Protect command-and-control software. Most legacy mass notification systems are sirens with limited, if any, voice broadcast capability. ACOUSTICS systems feature the industrys highest Speech Transmission Index (STI), large directional and omni-directional broadcast coverage areas, and an array of options, including solar power, battery backup, and satellite connectivity that enable the systems to continue to operate when power and telecommunications infrastructure goes down. ACOUSTICS gives operators the ability to send critical alerts and notifications from emergency operations centers, and authorized computers or smart phones. ACOUSTICS provides highly audible, clear voice messaging thousands of meters away, staying on and connected even during broad power outages and network failures. ACOUSTICS are networked, remotely operated devices optimized with advanced driver and waveguide technology so that voice broadcasts are clearly heard and understood above loud background noise and over long distances. ACOUSTICS reliability enables a constant stream of information, providing redundancy when key infrastructure fails during critical events. Genasys LRAD LRAD is the worlds leading AHD, with the ability to project alert tones and audible voice messages with exceptional vocal clarity in a 30 beam from close range to 5,500 meters. LRADs are used throughout the world in multiple applications and circumstances to safely hail, warn, inform, direct, prevent misunderstandings, determine intent, establish large safety zones, resolve uncertain situations, and save lives. LRADs have been deployed in defense, law enforcement, fire rescue, critical infrastructure protection, maritime, border, and homeland security installations and applications where clear, intelligible voice communications are essential. LRAD product models are available in varying audio outputs, communication coverage areas, sizes, functionalities, and mounting options. Several accessories and options (cameras, searchlights, mounts, and more) are also available to enhance LRAD capabilities. All LRAD products are defined by their unparalleled audio output and clarity. LRADs use Genasys proprietary XL driver technology, which generates higher audio output in a smaller, lighter form factor. The technology also enables voice messages and alert tones to cut through background noise and be clearly heard and understood. These competitive advantages, and constant innovation, have made LRAD the de facto standard of the global AHD industry. Recent Developments Business developments since September 30, 2024: Awarded a four-year contract by the Maui Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) to provide EVAC and TRAFFIC AI by Ladris for the island of Maui Received a four-year contract with Los Angeles County for ALERT mass notification software services Secured a three-year, $3.35 million follow-on maintenance agreement for LRAD systems deployed by the Indian Navy Announced LRAD integrated surveillance, security, and first response systems order from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation for Hoover Dam 28 Revenues for the Companys first quarter of fiscal 2025, were $6,940, an increase from $4,361 in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 Software revenue of $2,313 increased $898 over the prior year quarter, and hardware revenue of $4,627, increased $1,681 over the prior year quarter. The timing of budget cycles, government financial issues and military conflict in certain areas of the world, often delay contract awards, resulting in uneven quarterly revenue. Gross profit increased, compared to the same quarter in the prior year, as a result of higher hardware revenue and increased higher margin software revenue in this years quarter. Operating expenses in the quarter ended December 31, 2024, increased 4.7% to $9,119, compared with $8,709 in the same period in the prior year. We reported a net loss of $4,078 for the first quarter of fiscal 2025, or $(0.09) per share, compared with a net loss of $6,724, or $(0.15) per share, for the same quarter in the prior year. For several years through fiscal 2023, the Company has recognized revenue under a $110,000 U.S. Army program of record for Long Range Acoustic Devices. Final deliveries under this program occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023. A new, larger multiyear program was approved by Congress in late March 2024, as part of this years Department of Defense budget. Due to the timing of the budget passage, and common hurdles in the initial procurement and purchase order process, revenues are not anticipated to begin until after the current fiscal year. Historically, hardware revenue has been characterized by large and inconsistent orders that in aggregate have been a generator of cash for the Company. We continue to be optimistic about our future with the fully funded award of a contract of up to $75,000 to engineer, procure and build an Early Warning System (EWS) for Puerto Rico. We anticipate a majority of revenue from this contract will be realized in our fiscal years 2025 and 2026. In addition, we continue to invest in our Genasys Protect software platform with a significant win in fiscal 2024 in Los Angeles County, in addition to wins in other counties in California, Colorado, Utah, and Oregon. The early-stage Software segment continues to generate operating losses; however, revenue continues to grow year over year and segment operating loss has improved incrementally from prior years. With the delay in hardware orders and continued investment in software, the Company used $19,454 of cash in fiscal 2024. To address the ongoing cash needs, the Company completed a follow-on equity offering for $11,500 in October of 2023, and signed a $15,000, two-year senior secured Term Loan agreement in May 2024. This capital activity is expected to enable the Company to continue operations and return to expected growth in annual revenue and generation of cash from operations through the EWS for Puerto Rico and the new Common Remotely Operated Weapon Station (CROWS) program for the U.S. Department of Defense. For the three months ended December 31, 2024, the Company operating activities provided cash of $947. Business Outlook Our products, systems, and solutions continue to gain worldwide awareness and recognition through increased marketing efforts, product demonstrations, and word of mouth as a result of positive responses and increased acceptance. We believe we have a solid global brand, technology, and product foundation, which we continue to expand to serve new markets and customers for greater business growth. We believe we have strong market opportunities for our product offerings throughout the world in the defense, public safety, emergency warning, mass notification, critical event management, enterprise safety, and law enforcement sectors as a result of increasing threats to government, commerce, law enforcement, homeland security, and critical infrastructure. Our products, systems, and solutions also have many applications within the fire rescue, maritime, asset protection, and wildlife preservation business segments. Genasys has developed a global market and an increased demand for LRADs and advanced mass notification speakers. We have a reputation for producing quality products that feature industry-leading broadcast area coverage, voice intelligibility, and product reliability. We intend to continue building on our AHD market leadership position by offering enhanced voice broadcast systems and accessories for an expanding range of applications. In executing our strategy, we use direct sales to governments, militaries, large end-users, system integrators, and prime vendors. We have built a worldwide distribution channel consisting of partners and resellers that have significant expertise and experience selling integrated communication solutions into our various target markets. As our primary AHD sales opportunities are with domestic and international governments, military branches, and law enforcement agencies, we are subject to each customers unique budget cycle, which leads to long selling cycles and uneven revenue flow, complicating our product planning. The proliferation of natural and man-made disasters, crisis situations, and civil unrest require technologically advanced, multichannel solutions to deliver clear and timely protective communications to help keep people safe during critical events. Businesses are also incorporating protective communication and emergency management systems that locate and help safeguard employees and infrastructure when crises occur. By providing the only SaaS platform that unifies sensors and IoT inputs with multichannel, multi-agency alerting and notifications, Genasys seeks to deliver reliable, fast, and intuitive solutions for creating and disseminating geolocation-targeted warnings, information, and instructions before, during, and after public safety and enterprise threats. While the software and hardware mass notification markets are more mature with many established manufacturers and suppliers, we believe that our advanced technology and unified platform provide opportunities to succeed in the large and growing public safety, emergency warning, and critical communications markets. We intend to continue pursuing domestic and international business opportunities with the support of key representatives and resellers. We plan to grow our revenues through increased direct sales to governments and agencies that desire to integrate our communication technologies into their homeland security and public safety systems. This includes continuing to pursue further U.S. 29 military opportunities. We also plan to pursue domestic and international emergency warning, enterprise and critical event management, government, law enforcement, fire rescue, homeland and international security, private and commercial security, border security, maritime security, critical infrastructure protection, and wildlife preservation business opportunities. In addition to the matters above, we are authorized for the performance of services and provision of goods pursuant to Delaware General Corporation Law. Our research and development strategy involves incorporating further innovations and capabilities into our Genasys Protect platform to meet the needs of our target markets. Our Genasys Protect software solutions are more complex offerings. We are pursuing certain certifications, which are often required when bidding on government and mass notification opportunities. We intend to invest engineering resources to enhance our ALERT, EVAC, and CONNECT software solutions to compete for larger emergency warning and critical communications business opportunities. We are also configuring alternative solutions to achieve lower price points to meet the needs of certain customers or applications. We also engage in ongoing value engineering to reduce the cost and simplify the manufacturing of our products. A large number of LRAD and ACOUSTICS components and sub-assemblies manufactured by outside suppliers within our supply chain are produced within 50 miles of our facility. We do not source component parts from suppliers in China. It is likely that some of our suppliers source parts in China. Negative impacts on our supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have been affected by price increases from our suppliers and logistics as well as other inflationary factors such as increased salary, labor, and overhead costs. We regularly review and adjust the sales price of our finished goods to offset these inflationary factors. Although we do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our financial results through December 31, 2024, sustained or increased inflation in the future may have a negative effect on our ability to achieve certain expectations in gross margin and operating expenses. If we are unable to offset the negative impacts of inflation with increased prices, our future results could be materially affected. Critical Accounting Policies We have identified a number of accounting policies as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. These are described in our consolidated financial statements located in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2024. The impact and any associated risks related to these policies on our business operations is discussed below and throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations when such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The estimates affect the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 30 Comparison of Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands) Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 % of % of Total Total Fav (Unfav) Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Amount % Revenues: Product sales $ 4,144 59.7 % $ 2,166 49.7 % $ 1,978 91.3 % Contract and other 2,796 40.3 % 2,195 50.3 % 601 27.4 % Total revenues 6,940 100.0 % 4,361 100.0 % 2,579 59.1 % Cost of revenues 3,762 54.2 % 2,882 66.1 % 880 30.5 % Gross Profit 3,178 45.8 % 1,479 33.9 % 1,699 114.9 % Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative 6,834 98.5 % 6,518 149.5 % 316 4.8 % Research and development 2,285 32.9 % 2,191 50.2 % 94 4.3 % Total operating expenses 9,119 131.4 % 8,709 199.7 % 410 4.7 % Loss from operations (5,941 ) (85.6 %) (7,230 ) (165.8 %) 1,289 (17.8 )% Other income, net 1,863 26.8 % 77 1.8 % 1,786 N/A Loss before income taxes (4,078 ) (58.8 %) (7,153 ) (164.0 %) 3,075 (43.0 )% Income tax benefit 0.0 % (429 ) (9.8 %) 429 (100.0 )% Net loss $ (4,078 ) (58.8 %) $ (6,724 ) (154.2 %) $ 2,646 (39.4 )% Net revenue Hardware $ 4,627 66.7 % $ 2,946 67.6 % 1,681 57.1 % Software 2,313 33.3 % 1,415 32.4 % 898 63.5 % Total net revenue $ 6,940 100.0 % $ 4,361 100.0 % $ 2,579 59.1 % US v International Revenue US Revenue $ 4,661 67.2 % $ 3,624 83.1 % $ 1,037 28.6 % International Revenue 2,279 32.8 % 737 16.9 % 1,542 209.2 % Total $ 6,940 100.0 % $ 4,361 100.0 % $ 2,579 59.1 % The table above sets forth for the periods indicated certain items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations expressed in dollars and as a percentage of net revenues. The financial information and the discussion below should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes contained in this report. Revenues Revenues increased $2,579, or 59%, compared with the first fiscal quarter of the prior year. Hardware and software revenue increased $1,681 and $898, respectively, compared with the prior year quarter. The higher revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 was largely due to the higher backlog at the start of the fiscal year from increased orders received in fiscal year 2024. Backlog is a measure of purchase orders received that are scheduled to ship in the next 12 months. The higher software revenue in the first quarter was primarily due to a 69% increase in recurring revenue resulting from new customer contracts that were signed and then went live during fiscal year 2024, which generated recurring revenue in addition to the 2024 revenue. The receipt of orders and signing of contracts is often uneven due to the timing of budget cycles, government financial issues, and military conflict. As of December 31, 2024, we had aggregate deferred revenue of $3,192 for extended warranty obligations and software support agreements. Gross Profit Gross profit increased $1,699, or 115%, compared with the same quarter last year, due to increased hardware and software revenue. In addition, a current fiscal year hardware order was sold through a more profitable sales channel. Prior year quarterly revenue included a hardware shipment, representing 12% of total revenue, which realized a lower than normal gross profit. As 31 recurring software revenue grows, the growth rate of direct costs slows, leading to higher gross margins. Consequently, gross profit as a percentage of sales was higher in the first quarter of fiscal 2025, compared with the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a favorable mix of higher hardware revenue and increased higher margin software revenue. As our products have varying gross margins, product mix may affect gross profits. In addition, our margins vary based on the sales channels through which our products are sold in a given period. We continue to implement product updates and changes, including raw material and component changes, that may impact product costs. We have limited warranty cost experience with product updates and changes and estimated future warranty costs can impact our gross margins. We do not believe that historical gross profit margins should be relied upon as an indicator of future gross profit margins. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $316, or 5%, over the prior year quarter. The increase was largely due to a $413 increase in professional services plus $72 increase in insurance expenses, offset by a $206 decrease in compensation-related expenses and $120 decrease in sales marketing and travel expenses. We incurred non-cash share-based compensation expenses allocated to selling, general and administrative expenses in the three months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 of $326 and $380, respectively. We may expend additional resources on the marketing and selling of our products in future periods as we identify ways to optimize potential opportunities. Commission expenses will fluctuate based on the nature of our sales. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased $94, or 4%, in the fiscal first quarter due to an increase in engineers over the prior year period. Included in research and development expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, were $48 and $27, respectively, of non-cash share-based compensation costs. Research and development costs vary period to period due to the timing of projects, and the timing and extent of using outside consulting, design, and development firms. We seek to continually improve our product offerings, and we expect to continue to expand our product line with new products, customizations, and enhancements. Based on current plans, we may expend additional resources on research and development in the current fiscal year compared to the prior fiscal year. Other Income, Net Other income, net was $1,863 in the first quarter this fiscal year, compared to other income, net of $77 in the prior fiscal year quarter. The income in the current year included $2,470 non-cash income from the change in fair value of warrants and $62 of interest income offset by expenses including $370 change in the fair value of the Term Loan and $368 in interest expense. Other Metrics We monitor a number of financial and operating metrics, including adjusted EBITDA, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Our business metrics may be calculated in a manner different than similar other business metrics used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA represents our net income before other income, net income tax expense (benefit), depreciation and amortization expense, and stock-based compensation. We do not consider these items to be indicative of our core operating performance. The items that are non-cash include depreciation and amortization expense and stock-based compensation. Adjusted EBITDA is a measure used by management to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, and to generate future operating plans, make strategic decisions regarding allocation of capital, and invest in initiatives focused on cultivating new markets for our solutions. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted EBITDA facilitates comparisons of our operating performance on a period-to-period basis. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). We believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Nevertheless, use of adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S. GAAP. Some of these limitations are: (1) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the intangible assets that are amortized and property and equipment that is depreciated, will need to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacement or for new capital expenditure requirements; (2) adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; (3) adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; (4) adjusted EBITDA does not reflect tax payments or receipts that may represent a reduction or increase in cash available to us; and (5) other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces the usefulness of the metric as a comparative measure. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA alongside our other U.S. GAAP-based financial performance measures, net income and our other U.S. GAAP financial results. 32 The following table presents a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net loss $ (4,078 ) $ (6,724 ) Other income, net (1,863 ) (77 ) Income tax benefit (429 ) Depreciation and amortization 737 729 Stock-based compensation 391 446 Adjusted EBITDA $ (4,813 ) $ (6,055 ) Segment Results Segment results include net sales and operating income by segment. Corporate expenses, including various administrative expenses and costs of a publicly traded company, are included in the Hardware segment as per historical financial reporting. Comparison of Segment Adjusted EBITDA for the Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands) Software Hardware Three Months Ended Three Months Ended December 31, Fav (Unfav) December 31, Fav (Unfav) 2024 2023 $ % 2024 2023 $ % Revenue $ 2,313 $ 1,415 $ 898 63.5 % $ 4,627 $ 2,946 $ 1,681 57.1 % Operating loss (2,790 ) (4,115 ) 1,325 (32.2 )% (3,151 ) (3,115 ) (36 ) 1.2 % Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Depreciation and amortization 640 633 7 1.1 % 97 96 1 1.0 % Stock-based compensation 81 99 (18 ) (18.2 )% 310 347 (37 ) (10.7 )% Adjusted EBITDA $ (2,069 ) $ (3,383 ) $ 1,314 (38.8 )% $ (2,744 ) $ (2,672 ) $ (72 ) 2.7 % Software Segment Software segment revenue increased $898, or 63%, over the prior fiscal year. This primarily reflects a 69% increase in recurring revenue compared with the prior fiscal year. Operating loss decreased $1,325 in the fiscal first quarter of the current year due to increased revenue and lower operating expenses in selling, general and administrative due to higher personnel and marketing related expense in the prior year. Hardware Segment Hardware segment revenue increased $1,681, or 57%, over the prior fiscal year. The increase was largely due to the higher backlog at the start of this fiscal year compared to the prior year. Operating loss increased $36 in the current fiscal year period due to the higher revenue and resultant gross profit due to a current fiscal year hardware order sold through a more profitable sales channel, offset by higher professional services expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2024 were $8,469, compared with $4,945 as of September 30, 2024. We had short-term marketable securities of 5,146 as of December 31, 2024, compared with $7,945 as of September 30, 2024. Other than cash and cash equivalents, short term marketable securities, other working capital and expected future cash flows from operating activities in subsequent periods, we have no unused sources of liquidity at this time. We continue to manage all aspects of our business including, but not limited to, monitoring the financial health of our customers, suppliers and other third-party relationships and developing new opportunities for growth. Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally generated funds include: ability to meet sales projections; government spending levels; introduction of competing technologies; product mix and effect on margins; 33 ability to reduce and manage current inventory levels; and product acceptance in new markets; Principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: volatility in the capital markets; and market price and trading volume of our common stock. Based on our current cash position, and assuming currently planned expenditures and level of operations, we believe we have sufficient capital to fund operations for the twelve-month period subsequent to the issuance of the interim financial information. However, we operate in a rapidly evolving and unpredictable business environment that may change the timing or amount of expected future cash receipts and expenditures. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we may not be required to raise additional funds through the sale of equity or debt securities or from credit facilities. Additional capital, if needed, may not be available on satisfactory terms, or at all. Cash Flows Our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, are summarized in the table below: Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 947 $ (5,729 ) Investing activities $ 2,633 $ (9,114 ) Financing activities $ 1 $ 10,449 Operating Activities During the three months ended December 31, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $947, resulting from a net cash increase from changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $5,705, offset by net loss of $4,078 and non-cash expenses of $680. Net cash increase from changes in our operating assets and liabilities, consisted primarily of a $6,290 increase in accrued liabilities resulting from receipt of $8,313 deposit from the Puerto Rico project, $500 increase in accounts payable related to procurement for increased fiscal 2025 sales projection, $259 decrease in accounts receivable, partially offset by a $1,084 increase in prepaid expenses and other, mostly driven by the prepayment made for hardware for the Puerto Rico project, and a $260 increase in inventory. Non-cash expense adjustments of $680, consisted primarily of $2,470 gain on fair value of warrants driven mostly by our stock price, offset by loss on fair value of Term Loan, expenses of share-based compensation, warranty provision, depreciation and amortization, amortization of operating lease ROU assets, accretion of acquisition related liabilities and inventory obsolescence. We had accounts receivable of $3,017 as of December 31, 2024. Our receivable balance can vary dramatically due to overall sales volume and quarterly variations in sales and timing of shipments to and receipts from large customers. Terms with individual customers vary greatly. We often offer net thirty-day terms to our customers. Investing Activities During the three months ended December 31, 2024, net cash provided by investing activities was $2,633, primarily due to the maturities of investments in our holdings in marketable securities by $2,702, offset by the purchase of property and equipment of $69. We anticipate additional expenditures for tooling and equipment during the balance of fiscal year 2025. Financing Activities In the three months ended December 31, 2024, we received $1 through financing activities, due to minimal stock option exercises. Recent Accounting Pronouncements New pronouncements issued for future implementation are discussed in Note 3, Recent Accounting Pronouncements, to our condensed consolidated financial statements.