Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking terms such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, could, may, shall, will, would and variations of such words and similar expressions, or the negative of such words or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, which in some cases may be based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined under Item 1ARisk Factors in this Annual Report. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to: our ability to retain existing clients and contracts; our ability to win new clients and engagements; the expected value of the statements of work under our master service agreements; our beliefs about future trends in our market; political, economic or business conditions in countries where we have operations or where our clients operate; expected spending on business process management and information technology services by clients; foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to convert bookings to revenue; our rate of employee attrition; our effective tax rate; and competition in our industry. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results include, among others: our ability to grow our business and effectively manage growth and international operations while maintaining effective internal controls; our dependence on revenues derived from clients in the United States and Europe and clients that operate in certain industries, such as the financial services industry; our dependence on favorable tax legislation and tax policies that may be amended in a manner adverse to us or be unavailable to us in the future; our ability to successfully consummate or integrate strategic acquisitions; our ability to maintain pricing and asset utilization rates; our ability to hire and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations; increases in wages in locations in which we have operations; our relative dependence on the General Electric Company (GE); financing terms, including, but not limited to, changes in the London Interbank Offered rate, or LIBOR; restrictions on visas for our employees traveling to North America and Europe; fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, the euro, U.K. pound sterling, Chinese renminbi, Hungarian forint, Japanese yen, Indian rupee, Australian dollar, Philippines peso, Norwegian krone, Mexican peso, Polish zloty, Romanian leu, South African rand, Hong Kong dollar, Singapore dollar, Arab Emirates dirham, Brazilian real, Swiss franc, Swedish krona, Danish krone, Kenyan shilling, Czech koruna, Israeli new shekel, Colombian peso, Guatemalan quetzal, Peruvian sol, Macau pataca, Malaysian ringgit, Moroccan dirham and Canadian dollar; ii our ability to retain senior management; the selling cycle for our client relationships; our ability to attract and retain clients and our ability to develop and maintain client relationships on attractive terms; legislation in the United States or elsewhere that adversely affects the performance of business process outsourcing and information technology services offshore; increasing competition in our industry; telecommunications or technology disruptions or breaches, or natural or other disasters; our ability to protect our intellectual property and the intellectual property of others; our ability to maintain the security and confidentiality of personal and other sensitive data of our clients, employees or others; deterioration in the global economic environment and its impact on our clients, including the bankruptcy of our clients; regulatory, legislative and judicial developments, including the withdrawal of governmental fiscal incentives; the international nature of our business; technological innovation; our ability to derive revenues from new service offerings; and unionization of any of our employees. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable at the time they are made, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties, and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Forms 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use the terms Genpact, Company, we and us to refer to both our predecessor company and its subsidiaries, and Genpact Limited and its subsidiaries. Our registered office is located at Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 12, Bermuda. iii PART I Item 1. Business Overview Genpact stands for generating business impact. We are a global leader in digitally-powered business process management and services. We architect the Lean Digital SM enterprise through our patented Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ) framework that reimagines our clients operating models end-to-end, including the middle and back offices. This creates Intelligent Operations SM that we help design, transform, and run. The impact on our clients is a high return on transformation investments through growth, efficiency, and business agility. For two decades, first as a division of the General Electric Company, or GE, and later as an independent company, we have been passionately serving our clients. Today, we generate impact for a few hundred strategic clients, including approximately one fifth of the Fortune Global 500, and have grown to over 75,000 people in 25 countries, with corporate offices in New York City. The resulting business process and industry domain expertise and experience running complex operations are a unique heritage and focus that help us drive the best choices across technology, analytics, and organizational design. Our business was initially conducted through various entities and divisions of GE. We began operating as an independent company in 2004, when GE spun off our operations and sold indirect interests in us to our initial investors . In 2007, we completed our initial public offering. In 2012, affiliates of Bain Capital Investors, LLC, or Bain Capital, acquired the majority of the remaining interests held by our initial investors. As of December 31, 2016, Bain Capital (through its affiliates) owned approximately 29% of our outstanding equity. In 2016, we had net revenues of $2.57 billion, of which $2.21 billion, or 86%, was from clients other than GE, which we refer to as Global Clients, with the remaining $358 million, or 14%, coming from GE. We provide digitally-driven solutions that draw on our deep domain expertise, our understanding of process operations, analytics and advanced technology, and the operational insight we have acquired from our experience in managing thousands of processes for our clients. We seek to build long-term client relationships with companies that wish to improve the ways in which they do business and to whom we can offer a full range of services. Our business is increasingly focused on digital and consulting solutions, and we made significant investments in these areas in 2016. Genpact Digital Genpacts digital practice helps architect the Lean Digital SM enterprise, enabling clients to re-imagine their business operations by extending the power of digital all the way through the middle and back offices in an effort to enhance growth, cost efficiency, and business agility. Building on our foundation of deep process expertise in industry and functional domains and our SEP SM framework, our digital approach harnesses advanced technologies to drive transformative solutions for our clients through the application of actionable analytics that can be incorporated into their operations. Through this approach, we strive to improve our clients returns on existing IT investments. In 2016, we opened the Genpact Lean Digital SM Innovation Center, a lab designed to help our clients drive digital transformations across their enterprises. The Innovation Center enables clients to learn about new digital solutions and how they apply to their specific business needs through a comprehensive program that includes three key components: customer-focused design thinking workshops to help identify and reframe problems and develop innovative ideas that can scale to accelerate business impact; a digital incubation program that leverages carefully selected cutting-edge digital technology disruptors with proven success in developing real-life solutions that add value to the client experience; and a co-innovation lab that brings enterprise executives together with technology and business process experts to turn ideas into actionable prototypes through rapid development. Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ) SEP SM is our patented and highly granular approach to dramatically improving the performance of business processes. In addition to efficiency, it focuses on maximizing process effectiveness. SEP SM and its more recent evolution, Digital SEP SM , are based on work done in the Genpact Process Innovation Lab, where we leverage our exposure to thousands of business processes and hundreds of millions of client transactions to map and analyze end-to-end processes at a granular level. This enables us to test the effectiveness of 1 clients processes by identifying opportunities for improvement using best-in-class and granular benchmarks gleaned from within and across industries and then applying our deep process knowledge, process-centric technology, and analytical skills to improve them. The result is a client-specific road map for maximizing process effectiveness. Digital SEP SM builds on our SEP SM framework, developing our digital and domain-specific assets and solutions in an effort to drive business impact for clients in such areas as profitability and cash flows, user and customer experience, speed and strategic risk. Using Lean and design-thinking principles, we have built proprietary digital assets to address the domain-specific needs of clients in our targeted industry verticals. Our Digital SEP SM solutions leverage our digital expertise in mobility, cloud, workflow, advanced visualization, robotics, and machine learning capabilities and incorporate proprietary frameworks that we use to determine a clients process, technology and performance maturity. Our Strategic Client Model We seek to create long-term relationships with our clients where they view us as an integral part of their organization and not just as a service provider. These relationships often begin with the outsourcing of discrete processes or with shorter-cycle engagements in analytics and research or consulting and transformation services. Over time, these relationships often expand to encompass multiple business processes across a broader set of functions and geographic areas. No matter how large or small the engagement, we strive to be a seamless extension of our clients operations. To achieve this goal, we developed the Genpact Virtual Captive SM model for service delivery, and we may implement all or some of its features in any given client relationship, depending on the clients needs. This approach provides clients with dedicated employees and management as well as dedicated infrastructure at our delivery centers to create virtual extensions of the clients own teams and environments. We train our personnel in the clients culture to be familiar not only with the process but also with the business environment in which it is being executed. Our Strategy The specific elements of our strategy include the following: Enhance Targeted Vertical Industry and Domain Expertise Clients want partners who know their industry and processes at a granular level. We continue to seek to enhance our industry and domain capabilities through acquisitions, strategic partnerships and by investing in experienced professionals in our targeted verticals and service areas to strengthen client relationships and help us deliver end-to-end services that drive business impact. Guide Global Enterprises to Best-in-Class Our Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ) framework, built on the foundation of thousands of Lean Six Sigma-based improvement ideas and benchmarks around granular process performance, builds deeper client relationships and delivers measurable business impact over time. We continue to integrate new digital technologies and data analytics into these frameworks to develop Digital SEPs. Our differentiated framework is critical not only to extending client contracts but also to creating an expansive partnership with our clients. Differentiate our Solutions by Combining Process Expertise, Analytics and Technology Clients face an environment of uncertainty and change, which requires them to better leverage existing costs and investments, and make more informed decisions that address challenges around regulations and risk, while they continue to drive top-line growth and profitability. The insights we derive from our experience and expertise, combining smarter processes, analytics and technology, help us provide a differentiated solution to these challenges. 2 Expand Geographically in Key Markets We deliver our services and solutions from service delivery centers in 17 countries, including nine locations in the United States. We continue to expand and diversify our delivery capabilities globally in order to be closer to our clients. Our Services We seek to deliver significant business impact for our clients by designing, transforming and running a combination of processes, as well as providing solutions that combine elements of several of our service offerings. We recognize that our clients are focused on achieving business outcomes, rather than on transferring particular processes or using particular platforms. Accordingly, we focus on understanding their business needs and the business context of their existing processes in order to design appropriate and comprehensive solutions. We help organizations examine and re-frame the challenges that prevent them from reaching their business objectives by using design-thinking practices to help them reimagine end-to-end processes and rapidly leveraging the power of effective digital solutions, including reusable tools, platforms, and analytics. Our business focuses on industry verticals in banking and financial services, capital markets, consumer product goods, healthcare, high tech, infrastructure, manufacturing and services, insurance, and life sciences. Our core domain expertise within these industry verticals includes the following: Banking and Financial Services . Our banking and financial services core operations include application processing; mortgage loan origination; wealth management; risk management and compliance activities; omnichannel account servicing and setup; collections and customer services; commercial lending, business banking, auto finance, and finance and accounting activities. We use our analytics capabilities to help our clients price products, estimate capital and reserve requirements, analyze and monitor portfolios, and manage risk. We also handle reporting and monitoring services for statutory and regulatory compliance, portfolio and performance review services and financial planning and tax services. Our services for financial services clients include investment banking support for deals, asset-backed finance surveillance, trade finance support, payment and fraud operations support, credit and market risk management, operational risk management and continuous transaction monitoring. Our wealth management services include brokerage and retirement offerings that provide end-to-end process services, including onboarding, reconciliations, plan administration, fund administration and trade support. Capital Markets . Our capital markets practice provides an end-to-end range of information technology services for the capital markets industry, including application development and maintenance; managed services such as quality assurance, testing and production support; business process outsourcing; domain knowledge-based consulting related to technology systems (domain consulting); and consulting not tied to a technology system (business consulting). Areas of domain focus within our capital markets practice include asset and wealth management; risk and compliance; client onboarding; Know Your Customer (KYC); collateral management; post trade processing; and data services, such as reference data and data scrubbing and reconciliation. We have also set up centers of excellence focusing on several technology platforms used by the financial services industry, including platforms focused on brokerage compliance, trade processing and portfolio accounting. Consumer Product Goods . Our consumer product goods services include trade promotion optimization, trade promotion management, order management, master data management, customer service, marketing optimization, supply chain decision services, marketing analytics, market mix modeling, and enterprise services such as finance and accounting, indirect procurement and IT operations. We also provide supplier risk management, supplier recovery audit, shopper analytics, store and product-mix optimization services. Healthcare . Our healthcare expertise covers a full spectrum of services including end-to-end transactional processes, advanced technology, analytics and consultative and transformational solutions for payers, providers and pharmacy benefit managers. Our solutions help payers and providers manage the end-to-end life cycle of a claim, from claims processing and adjudication to claims recovery and payment integrity, leveraging comprehensive solutions including consulting, enterprise application services, infrastructure management services and integrated business-process-as-a-service (BPaaS) solutions. Our regulatory compliance solutions encompass planning, business alignment systems change management, training and testing. 3 High Tech . Our high tech services include service support, including customer care service, technical product support and aftermarket services; lead-to-cash; sales force commission management; supply chain and consumer analytics; and enterprise services such as F&A, sourcing and procurement, and IT operations. Infrastructure, Manufacturing and Services . Our infrastructure, manufacturing and services offerings include enterprise processes such as finance and accounting, indirect procurement and IT operations. Our industry specific solutions include industrial internet solutions, aftermarket services support, industrial asset optimization, engineering services covering the complete product lifecycle from concept to release and sustaining engineering, supply chain management, direct procurement and logistics services. Insurance . Our insurance services include underwriting, claims management, risk and catastrophe modeling, customer segmentation and loyalty, and finance and accounting activities. We offer insurance services to several industry sectorslife and annuities, property and casualty, and reinsurance. We cover many phases of insurance business processes, including in the areas of product development, finance, risk management, actuarial modeling, sales and marketing, underwriting support, claims and policy administration, and brokerage operations. Life Sciences . Our life sciences and pharmaceutical services include contract management for managed markets; regulatory affairs services, including lifecycle management, regulatory operations, Chemistry Manufacturing Controls (CMC) compliance, safety and pharmacovigilance, and regulatory information management; multi-channel customer experience for medical information, sales and marketing, direct-to-consumer support, patient assistance programs (access and reimbursement), and patient support programs; and enterprise services such as finance and accounting (F&A), indirect procurement, IT operations, risk management and audit support. We also provide comprehensive analytics services including market research and competitive intelligence, patient level data analysis, physician and drug analysis, social media monitoring and data management. Our professional services offerings in these core industry verticals are driven by our broad end-to-end process expertise in a number of service areas, including analytics and research, collections and customer services, consulting and transformation services, core industry operations services, enterprise application services, finance and accounting (F&A) services, IT infrastructure management services, and supply chain and procurement services. Analytics and Research Our analytics and research capabilities are central to our ability to improve business operations and drive transformational value for clients. We offer analytics services in areas where we have domain expertise, both on a standalone basis and as an integrated part of our other service offerings. We help our clients reimagine their business operations in the context of analytics and technology through the delivery of Genpact Intelligent Operations SM fueled by our Lean Digital SM approach. Using Systems of Engagement TM , we have built what we refer to as the Genpact Intelligent Process Insights Engine, a process-aware platform that embeds technology and analytics to deliver purpose-built analytics applications. Through our Data-to-Action SM Analytics approach, we deliver measurable business outcomes to clients across industries. Companies do not always recognize the inherent potential in data or have the capability to apply rigorous analytical models that can reveal opportunities. Our domain-specific analytics prowess, along with a sophisticated innovation ecosystem, is embedded in our service offerings to help clients make timely, informed and fact-based decisions. By quantitatively and qualitatively scrutinizing data, we can deliver the insight necessary for clients to assess new business opportunities, mitigate market risks, and make better business decisions. Our innovation centers in Bangalore, India, and Palo Alto, California facilitate collaboration and innovation with clients, partners and industry experts by bringing together process-centric digital technologies, design thinking, data and analytics, and deep domain expertise. Collections and Customer Services Our collections and customer services are provided primarily in the areas of consumer banking, business-to-business finance and mortgage servicing. Our collections services include collections strategy design through smart analytics and a full range of accounts receivable management services, such as early to late stage collections, skip- 4 tracing, refunds and other specialized services. In our collections services, we act as an agent only; we do not acquire debts for our own account or handle debtor payments. Our customer services include account servicing and customer care services such as handling customer queries, general servicing and dispute resolution. We support omnichannel interactions and provide origination and order management support. Consulting and Transformation Services Our consulting teams apply Lean Digital SM practices to help clients design the right strategy and target operating model for their functions. We help clients develop transformation roadmaps that deliver all components of a target operating model vision and implement process-driven improvements. Our business and enterprise risk consulting teams support our clients through transformation delivery, including enhanced internal controls and regulatory compliance. We partner with our clients to reimagine their controllership functions and improve their risk and control environments across operational and regulatory processes while preserving value and mitigating risk exposure. Our transformation services leverage digital, analytics and consulting solutions to help clients create competitive advantage and realize cost savings or increase revenues by improving or re-engineering business processes that are underperforming or by designing new processes to meet growth objectives. Clients engage our transformation teams to provide an end-to-end view of their organization and help determine business-process needs at the strategic and execution levels. Strategically, we help clients achieve a comprehensive assessment of how well their enterprise-level processes such as source to pay, order to cash, record to report, inquiry to order, new product introduction and salesforce effectiveness perform against industry benchmarks and best practices. At the execution level, we institutionalize the recommendations by deploying resources to train the client team and drive sustainable best practices. Our consulting and transformation services build on our deep understanding of the complete enterprise operating model and draw on our expertise in process, state-of-the-art technology, organizational structures, compliance and risk-mitigation strategies. We combine a design-thinking approach with our industry and domain expertise to create client offerings that apply cutting-edge digital technologies and analytics with the goal of driving fundamental shifts in clients business performance. Core Industry Operations Services We help our clients design, transform and run core enterprise operations specific to their industries. On the foundation of domain expertise embedded in our SEP SM frameworks, we use Lean Digital SM to leverage digital technologies and specialized analytics to power Intelligent Operations SM . We support our clients core operations in retail and commercial banking, capital markets, insurance, healthcare, life sciences, manufacturing, consumer goods and retail, and high tech. Enterprise Application Services Our information technology approach focuses on business outcomes and related business processes. Equipped with industry and functional expertise and guided by our proprietary Lean Digital SM approach, we aim to create Intelligent Operations SM that execute efficiently and effectively, and continuously learn to adapt. Our focused approach is designed to maximize the impact that business processes have on business outcomes while limiting capital expenditures, risk, complexity, and time-to-benefit. Our solutions include business intelligence and big data, enterprise resource planning, quality assurance and technology integration. We also have significant expertise in Hyperion, SAS and Cognos, and platform support for ERP systems such as Oracle, SAP and Microsoft. Finance and Accounting (F&A) We believe we are one of the worlds premier providers of F&A services. Our services include Accounts Payable (AP), Order to Cash (OTC), Record to Report (R2R), Enterprise Performance Management (EPM), and Enterprise Risk and Compliance (ERC) services. Our AP services span the end-to-end AP function and include document management, invoice processing, approval and resolution management, and T&E processing. Our OTC services cover customer master data management, credit and contract management, fulfillment, billing, collections, and dispute management services. Our R2R services encompass accounting, closing and reporting, including SEC 5 and regulatory reporting, treasury, tax services, and product cost accounting. Our EPM services include budgeting, forecasting, business performance reporting and analytics, including predictive analytics. Our ERC services specialize in operational risk and controls, Sarbanes-Oxley Act advisory, third-party risk management and regulatory compliance with services such as enterprise risk management, internal audits, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and IT risk management. In addition to managing our clients finance and accounting processes, we help them design, transform, and run their finance operating models to achieve best-in-class performance. As part of our Lean Digital SM approach, Genpact Systems of Engagement TM for F&A creates an agile technology layer that complements existing systems of record, providing continuity of information and operations across the enterprise. Our Systems of Engagement TM modules for OTC, AP, R2R, and EPM support smart processes, detailed analytics, and a host of agile technologies, including proprietary cloud-based technology platforms and bolt-on, best-of-breed solutions from our technology partners. Our F&A services also include Digital SEP SM frameworks and solutions, which aim to reimagine client processes. IT Infrastructure Management Services Our IT infrastructure management services consist of end user computing, infrastructure management services, application production support and database management services. We provide support in more than 25 languages with a global footprint of native speakers. We provide monitoring and management of clients data centers, servers, storage, emails, networks, databases, applications and end user devices. We use a network of Remote Operations Centers to provide 24/7 infrastructure monitoring and management. Along with Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) ISO 20000, we use Six Sigma and Lean principles to address technology problems and to enable our clients to align their IT capabilities with their business priorities and at the same time reduce technology costs. We use our proprietary SEP SM framework Service Disruption to Restore (D2R), along with our accelerators and IP frameworks, to continuously reduce defects. We also provide cloud infrastructure services, IT service integration and management and cyber security services apart from ITIL implementation services. Supply Chain and Procurement Our supply chain and procurement services include direct and indirect strategic sourcing, category management, spend analytics, procurement operations, master data management, and other procurement and supply chain advisory services. We work with our clients to design, transform and run sourcing strategies across expense categories, drive process compliance and realize significant cost reduction in their businesses. This includes sourcing and procurement process transformation, inventory planning and optimization, value transformation and process automation. Using our Lean Digital SM approach, we integrate disparate technology systems and provide dynamic digital dashboard reporting while transforming business operations and improving service productivity. We leverage our technology expertise in delivering our services in this area, particularly in automating order management processes and optimizing the supply chain. We have competency in many of the custom platforms used by our clients and are not tied to any single platform or vendor. Our Clients Our clients include some of the best known companies in the world, many of which are leaders in their respective industries. GE has been our largest client since our inception and accounted for approximately 14% of our 2016 revenues. We currently provide services to most of GEs business units, including GE Capital, Power and Water, Oil and Gas, Energy Management, Renewables, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation, Current, Digital and Corporate. The services we currently provide to GE are broad in their nature and are drawn from all of our service offerings. Although we have a single master services agreement, or MSA, with GE, we have many statements of work, or SOWs, with GE business units that cover in more detail the nature of the work we will perform and the amounts we will bill for the relevant services. As a general matter, each GE business unit makes its own decisions as to whether to enter into a SOW with us and as to the terms of any such SOW. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, our revenues from GE are generally attributable to a number of different businesses each with its own leader responsible for decision-making regarding our services. 6 We have over 700 clients spread across a variety of industries and geographies. Our net revenues from clients other than GE, or Global Clients, have grown rapidly in the last five years, from $1.12 billion in 2011 to $2.21 billion in 2016, a compound annual growth rate of 14.7%. Our net revenues from Global Clients as a percentage of total net revenues increased from approximately 70% in 2011 to approximately 86% in 2016. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsClassification of Certain Net Revenues. The majority of our Global Clients are based in the United States, and we also have Global Clients in Europe, Asia and Australia. Our contracts with our clients generally take the form of an MSA, which is a framework agreement that is then supplemented by SOWs. Our MSAs specify the general terms applicable to the services we will provide. For a description of our MSAs and SOWs, see Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewRevenues. We serve about one fifth of the Global Fortune 500, including AstraZeneca, Boeing, Citigroup, GE, GlaxoSmithKline, Heineken, Honeywell, Kraft-Heinz, Merck, Nissan, Walgreens and Wells Fargo. Our People Our people are critical to the success of our business. Our Chief Executive Officer and other members of our senior leadership team have been involved in our business since its commencement under GE resulting in an experienced and cohesive leadership team. Many members of our leadership team developed their management skills working within GE and many of them were involved in the founding of our business. They have built our business based on the experience gained in helping GE meet a wide range of challenges. As a result, we are an institutional embodiment of much of the wisdom and experience GE developed in improving and managing its own business processes. We have created, and constantly reinforce, a culture that emphasizes teamwork, constant improvement of our processes and, most importantly, dedication to the client. We manage this challenge through innovative human resource practices. These include broadening the employee pool by opening delivery centers in diverse locations, using innovative recruiting techniques to attract the best employees, emphasizing ongoing training, instilling a vibrant and distinctive culture and providing well-defined, long-term career paths. We also have programs modeled on GE management training programs to develop the next generation of leaders and managers of our business. As of December 31, 2016, we had approximately 75,000 employees. We monitor and manage our attrition rate very closely, and believe it is one of the lowest in the industry. We attribute this to our reputation, our ability to attract high quality applicants, our emphasis on maintaining our culture and the breadth of exposure, experience and opportunity for advancement that we provide to our employees. Lean and Six Sigma Methodologies Lean is a methodology for reducing waste or inefficiency in a process. Among other things, it is designed to measure and eliminate overproduction, over-processing and waiting, and to improve the flow of a process. Six Sigma is a method for improving process quality by removing variation, defects and their causes from business activities. We have Lean Six Sigma programs that train, test and grade employees in Lean and Six Sigma principles and award them Lean Six Sigma certifications. In 2015, we launched a simplified transformation framework ProDG SM , a four-step method focused on driving outcomes leveraging Lean Six Sigma, transformation, change management, digital and design-thinking tools. The rankings of Lean Six Sigma qualifications from lowest to highest are green belt, black belt and master black belt. With the growing prevalence of digital technologies incorporated in our solutions, we also certify digital black belts and digital master black belts. As of December 31, 2016, we had more than 17,000 employees with Six Sigma green belt training, over 500 employees with Six Sigma black belt training, and more than 46,000 Lean-trained employees. This large number of employees with Lean Six Sigma training helps infuse our organization with a disciplined, analytical approach to everything we do. Recruiting We face meaningful competition for skilled employees in every jurisdiction in which we operate. We have refined our talent acquisition strategy by organizing our recruiting teams by industry vertical and utilizing an 7 internal executive recruiting team, social media platforms, online job portals and professional search firms to recruit globally. Our internal employee referral program has also become a key recruiting vehicle for us. We believe that our focus on our employees career development makes us attractive to candidates beyond our delivery center locations. As part of our global diversity and inclusion efforts, we have implemented Career 2.0, a program to attract top female leaders who have just returned from the workforce after an extended break. Training and Development We believe in extensive and continuous training of our employees. We have the infrastructure to train approximately 6,000 people at any one time with approximately 250 trainers. In 2016, we had more than 16,500 employees enrolled in part-time professional degree, e-learning and other non-degree programs provided internally or by universities and other third parties. Our training programs are designed to transfer the industry-specific knowledge and experience of our industry leaders to our employees to ensure we maintain our deep process and domain expertise across the industries and processes in which we work. Our training programs cover a large number of topics, including specific service offerings, key technical and IT skills, our different clients workplace cultures and Lean and digital transformation methodologies. A large part of our continuous training is designed to impart the skills and knowledge required by our employees to move to positions of increasing responsibility within Genpact. Retention In order to meet our growth and service commitments, we are constantly striving to attract and retain employees. There is significant turnover of employees in the business process management and information technology sectors generally, particularly in India where the majority of our employees are currently based. Our attrition rate for all employees who have been employed by us for one day or more was 26% in 2016. We believe this rate is relatively low for our industry based on statistics published by industry associations such as NASSCOM. We attribute this low attrition rate to a number of factors, including our effective recruiting measures, extensive training and a strong culture of providing opportunities for growth and learning. We also take aggressive action to monitor and minimize potential attrition. Using Six Sigma principles we have developed an early warning system that tracks employees and gives us an insight into which employees are most likely to resign. These employees are automatically highlighted to management who can take action such as relocating the employee or enrolling the employee in continuing education programs to increase the likelihood of retention. As another measure designed to minimize attrition, we right-skill our employees to the tasks assigned to them. This means that we match the level of services required to the experience and qualification of the employee concerned and we avoid having over-qualified people in any particular job. This allows us to give our highly qualified and experienced people higher-value jobs and, coupled with the practice of up-skilling, ensures better career paths for all of our employees. Corporate Social Responsibility Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative aims to integrate our social and environmental priorities with our operational fabric. Genpacts approach to CSR focuses on three pillars that reflect our strengths and core expertise and include causes that our employees are passionate about: Education and employability Environment and sustainability Diversity and inclusion We have institutionalized a culture of giving and volunteering through a number of global platforms, programs, projects and social initiatives. Our more than 15,000 employee volunteers have, among other things, helped underprivileged children and women to develop vocational skills, worked on environmental initiatives such as rejuvenating urban forest land and participating in cleaning drives, and participated in programs that address the health and nutritional needs of the poor. Additionally, more than 15,000 of our employees have participated in our payroll-based charitable donation programs. 8 Our Alliances We have entered into and continue to pursue partnerships or alliances with companies whose capabilities complement ours in an effort to enhance our existing solutions or create new solutions to address market needs. Such alliances may be transaction- or deal-specific, may be for the development of joint capabilities in a service line or may take the form of enterprise-wide transformational partnerships. Our alliances generally fall into one of four categories: joint ventures; strategic, go-to-market alliances; deal-specific partnerships to provide a joint solution to a client; or digital and other white label partnerships. Our digital partnerships aim to nurture relationships with established and emerging players and start-ups that specialize in leading-edge disruptive digital technologies that we can embed into our solutions. Our Lean Digital SM Innovation Center in Palo Alto supports these partnerships, combining our partners solutions with our expertise and hands-on practical experience. Sales and Marketing We market our services to both existing and potential clients through our business development team and our global relationship managers. Members of this team are based around the globe, including in the United States, Europe, Australia and Asia, and dedicate their time to expanding the services we provide to our existing clients as well as acquiring new clients. We have designated client partners and global relationship managers for each of our strategic relationships. The relationship manager is supported by process improvement, quality, transition, finance, human resources, information technology and industry/product subject matter expert teams to ensure the best possible solution is provided to our clients. We constantly measure our client satisfaction levels to ensure that we maintain high service levels for each client, using measures such as the Net Promoter Score. Our sales force is primarily organized by industry vertical teams that are supported by horizontal service offerings. The length of our selling cycle varies depending on the type of engagement. The sales cycle for project work is much shorter than the sales cycle for a large business process engagement. Our efforts may begin in response to our lead generation program, a perceived opportunity, a reference by an existing client, a request for proposal or otherwise. In addition to our business development personnel, the sales effort involves people from the relevant service areas, people familiar with that prospective clients industry, business leaders and Six Sigma resources. We may expend substantial time and resources in securing new business. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewRevenues. As our relationship with a client grows, the time required to win an engagement for additional services often gradually declines. In addition, as we become more knowledgeable about a clients business and processes, our ability to identify opportunities to create value for the client typically increases. For example, productivity benefits and greater business impact can often be achieved by applying our Lean Digital SM approach and SEP SM methodology, by focusing on processes that are upstream or downstream from the processes we initially handle, or by applying our analytical, consulting and digital capabilities to transform processes. We also strive to foster relationships between our senior leadership team and our clients senior management. These C-level relationships ensure that both parties are focused on establishing priorities, aligning objectives and driving client value from the top down. High-level executive relationships have been particularly constructive as a means of increasing business from our existing clients. It also provides us with a forum for addressing client concerns. Our governance methodology is designed to ensure that we are well connected at all levels of our clients organizations (executive, management and operations). Significant new business opportunities are reviewed by business and sales leaders from the applicable industry vertical, operations personnel, and members of our finance department. If they determine that the new business is aligned with our strategic objectives and a good use of our resources, then our business development team is authorized to pursue the opportunity. Global Delivery Platform A key differentiator is our global network of 75 delivery centers in 17 countries. We also have a number of employees who work directly in client locations or provide services from a virtual environment which offers 9 flexibility for both clients and employees. Our presence in locations around the world provides us with multilingual capabilities, access to a larger talent pool, near-shoring capabilities to take advantage of time zones, as well as the ability to provide services from the United States. With this network, we manage complex processes in multiple geographic regions. We use different locations for different types of services depending on the specific client needs and the mix of skills and cost of employees available in each location. We choose the location of our delivery centers based on a number of factors, which include the available talent pool, infrastructure, government support and operating costs, as well as client demand. We have been a pioneer in our industry in opening centers in several cities in India as well as in some of the other countries in which we operate. We were one of the first companies in our industry to establish operating centers in certain locations, including Dalian, Foshan and Huaqiao in China; Bucharest in Romania; and Gurgaon, Hyderabad, Jaipur and Kolkata in India. We regularly evaluate new locations, including new countries and new cities within countries in which we currently operate, as potential sites for delivery centers and offices. Our delivery centers are located in Brazil, China, the Czech Republic, Guatemala, India, Israel, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States. As of December 31, 2016, we provided services in more than 30 languages. The large number of different countries from which we serve our clients differentiates us from a number of our competitors and enables us to take advantage of different languages and time zones which, in turn, enhances our ability to serve our clients. Intellectual Property Increasingly, the solutions we offer our clients include a range of proprietary methodologies, software, and reusable knowledge capital. We also develop intellectual property in the course of our business and our agreements with our clients regulate the ownership of such intellectual property. We regularly apply for patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights and domain names to protect our intellectual property. Some of our intellectual property rights are trade secrets and relate to proprietary business process enhancements. At times, we use third-party software platforms and the software systems of our clients to provide our services. Our agreements with our clients normally include a license to use the clients proprietary systems to provide our services. Clients authorize us to access and use third party software licenses held by the client so that we may provide our services. It is our practice to enter into agreements with our employees and independent contractors that: ensure that all new intellectual property developed by our employees or independent contractors in the course of their employment or engagement is assigned to us; provide for employees and independent contractors cooperation in intellectual property protection matters even if they no longer work for us; and include a confidentiality undertaking by our employees and independent contractors. Competition We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving global market. We have a number of competitors offering services that are the same as or similar to ours. Our competitors include: large multinational service providers and accounting firms that provide consulting and other professional services; companies that are primarily business process service providers operating from low-cost countries, most commonly India; companies that are primarily information technology service providers with some business process service capabilities; smaller, niche service providers that provide services in a specific geographic market, industry or service area, including digital; and 10 in-house departments of companies that use their own resources rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services and solutions we provide. Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our industry include: skills and capabilities; technical and industry expertise; innovative service and product offerings, including digital offerings; ability to add value, including through continuous process improvement; reputation and client references; contractual terms, including competitive pricing; scope of services; quality of services and solutions; ability to sustain long-term client relationships; and global reach and scale. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis. Regulation We are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions around the world as a result of the complexity of our operations and services, including at the federal, state and local level, particularly in the countries where we have operations and where we deliver services. We are also subject to regulation by regional bodies such as the European Union, or EU. In addition, the terms of our service contracts typically require that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. In some of our service contracts, we are contractually required to comply even if such laws and regulations apply to our clients, but not to us, and sometimes our clients require us to take specific steps intended to make it easier for our clients to comply with requirements that are applicable to them. In some of our other service contracts, our clients undertake the responsibility to inform us about laws and regulations that may apply to us in jurisdictions in which they are located. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we may be restricted in our ability to provide services, and may also be the subject of civil or criminal actions involving penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our clients generally have the right to terminate our contracts for cause in the event of regulatory failures, subject to notice periods. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessOur global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business. If we fail to comply with contractual commitments to facilitate our clients compliance, we may be liable for contractual damages, and clients in regulated industries may be less willing to use our services. In addition, public figures in the United States, including the current U.S. President and members of his administration, have suggested that changes to certain regulations applicable to us may potentially be adopted. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessFuture legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. In the United States, we are either directly subject to, or contractually required to comply or facilitate our clients compliance with, laws and regulations arising out of our work for clients operating there, especially in the area of banking, financial services and insurance, such as the Financial Modernization Act (sometimes referred to as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Service Company Act, the Home Owners Loan Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and regulation by U.S. agencies such as the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit 11 Union Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. We are also subject to regulation under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, the Communications Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act and applicable regulations in the area of health and other personal information that we process as part of our services. Because of our debt collections work in the United States, we are also regulated by laws such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act and the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and related regulations. We are currently licensed to engage in debt collection activities in all jurisdictions in the United States where licensing is required. Because of our mortgage origination activities in the United States, in addition to the applicable regulations listed above, we are subject to laws such as the S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Homeowners Protection Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and by regulatory bodies such as the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. We currently hold mortgage-related licenses, registrations or letters of exemption from licensing in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia and are regulated by each applicable state regulatory agency. Because of our insurance processing activities, we are currently licensed as a third-party administrator in 41 states and are regulated by the department of insurance in each such state. In two other states, we qualify for regulatory exemption from licensing based on the insurance processing activities we provide. We are affected by laws in the United States, the United Kingdom and the EU that are intended to limit the impact of outsourcing on employees in those countries. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessFuture legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. We are also subject to laws and regulations on direct marketing, such as the Telemarketing Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act and the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and rules promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission, and the CAN-SPAM Act. We are subject to laws and regulations governing foreign trade, such as export control, customs and sanctions regulations maintained by government bodies such as the Commerce Departments Bureau of Industry and Security, the State Departments Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control, and Homeland Security Departments Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. Several of our service delivery centers, primarily located in India, China, the Philippines and Guatemala, benefit from tax incentives or concessional rates provided by local laws and regulations. The Indian Special Economic Zones Act of 2005, or SEZ legislation, introduced a tax holiday in certain situations for operations established in designated special economic zones, or SEZs. The SEZ tax benefits are available only for new business operations that are conducted at qualifying SEZ locations. We cannot predict what percentage of our operations or income in India or other jurisdictions in future years will be eligible for a tax holiday. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewIncome Taxes. In addition to the tax holidays described above, certain benefits are also available to us under certain Indian state laws. These benefits include rebates and waivers in relation to payments for the transfer or registration of property (including for the purchase or lease of premises), waivers of conversion fees for land, exemption from state pollution control requirements, entry tax exemptions, labor law exemptions and commercial usage of electricity. Our hedging activities and currency transfer are restricted by regulations in certain countries, including India, Romania and China. Certain Bermuda Law Considerations As a Bermuda company, we are also subject to regulation in Bermuda. Among other things, we must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 1981 regulating the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions from contributed surplus. 12 We are classified as a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Pursuant to our non-resident status, we may engage in transactions in currencies other than Bermuda dollars. There are no restrictions on our ability to transfer funds in and out of Bermuda or to pay dividends to United States residents that are holders of our common shares. Under Bermuda law, exempted companies are companies formed for the purpose of conducting business outside Bermuda. As an exempted company, we may not, without a license granted by the Minister of Economic Development, participate in certain business transactions, including transactions involving Bermuda landholding rights and the carrying on of business of any kind, for which we are not licensed in Bermuda. Available Information We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC, copies of which can be obtained from the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge on our website, www.genpact.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Executive Officers The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers as of February 15, 2017: Name Age Position(s) N.V. Tyagarajan 55 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Edward Fitzpatrick 50 Chief Financial Officer Patrick Cogny 50 Senior Vice President, Infrastructure, Manufacturing & Services and High Tech Victor Guaglianone 61 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Piyush Mehta 48 Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer Arvinder Singh 52 Senior Vice President, Capital Markets and IT Services Mohit Thukral 51 Senior Vice President, Banking, Financial Services and Insurance N.V. Tyagarajan has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since June 2011. From February 2009 to June 2011, he was our Chief Operating Officer. From February 2005 to February 2009, he was our Executive Vice President and Head of Sales, Marketing and Business Development. From October 2002 to January 2005, he was Senior Vice President, Quality and Global Operations, for GEs Commercial Equipment Finance division. Between 1999 and 2002, he served as our Chief Executive Officer. Edward Fitzpatrick became our Chief Financial Officer in July 2014. Prior to joining Genpact, he spent 13 years at Motorola Solutions Inc. and its predecessor company Motorola Inc., most recently serving as executive vice president and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to Motorola, he worked at General Instrument Corporation and Price Waterhouse, LLP. Mr. Fitzpatrick also currently serves as a director of CBOE, Inc. Patrick Cogny has served as our Senior Vice President of Infrastructure, Manufacturing and Services since September 2011 and has also been responsible for our High Tech business since January 2017. From 2005 to August 2011, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Genpact Europe. Prior to this, he spent 15 years working for GE in the Healthcare business and in the GE Europe corporate headquarters, in France, the United States and Belgium. Victor Guaglianone has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 2007. From 2004 to 2007, he was senior counsel at Holland & Knight LLP. From 2003 to 2004, he served as a commercial arbitrator for the American Arbitration Association. Prior to 2003, he spent 16 years at GE Capital, most recently as Vice President and Associate General Counsel. 13 Piyush Mehta has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since March 2005. He has worked for us since 2001, initially as Vice President of Human Resources. Arvinder Singh has served as our Senior Vice President, Capital Markets and IT Services since October 2013. From August 2011 to October 2013, he was Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing, Client Relationships and Re-engineering. From August 2008 to July 2011, he was Global Head of Client Relationships and GE, and from June 2005 to August 2008 he was the Business Leader for Lean Six Sigma, Transitions and Solutions. Prior to joining Genpact in June 2005 he was Senior Vice President, Six Sigma and Chief Quality Officer for GE Vendor Financial Services. Mohit Thukral has served as our Senior Vice President, Banking, Financial Services and Insurance since 2004. He was also responsible for our healthcare business from July 2011 to December 2014. 14 Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients businesses and levels of business activity. Global macroeconomic conditions affect our clients businesses and the markets they serve. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions in our significant markets have undermined and could in the future undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other markets, which are increasingly interdependent, and cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new initiatives, or may result in clients reducing, delaying or eliminating spending under existing contracts with us, which would negatively affect our business. Growth in the markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate or contract, in each case, for an extended period of time. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate and the industries we serve have affected and may in the future affect demand for our services. A material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our clients in North America and Europe. Weak demand or a slower-than-expected recovery in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty and changing demand patterns affect our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand and effectively build our revenue and resource plans. Economic volatility and uncertainty is particularly challenging because it may take some time for the effects and changes in demand patterns resulting from these and other factors to manifest themselves in our business and results of operations. Changing demand patterns from economic volatility and uncertainty could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, including through the adaptation and expansion of our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings, and a significant reduction in such demand or an inability to respond to the evolving technological environment could materially affect our results of operations. Our revenue and profitability depend on the demand for our services and solutions with favorable margins, which could be negatively affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product. Volatile, negative or uncertain global economic conditions and lower growth in the markets we serve have adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect client demand for our services and solutions. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology and offerings to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Examples of areas of significant change include digital- and cloud-related offerings, which are continually evolving as developments such as artificial intelligence, automation, Internet of Things and as-a-service solutions are commercialized. Technological developments such as these may materially affect the cost and use of technology by our clients and, in the case of as-a-service solutions, could affect the nature of how we generate revenue. Some of these technologies, such as cloud-based services, artificial intelligence and automation, and others that may emerge, have reduced and replaced some of our historical services and solutions and may continue to do so in the future. This has caused, and may in the future cause, clients to delay spending under existing contracts and engagements and to delay entering into new contracts while they evaluate new technologies. Such delays can negatively impact our results of operations if the pace and level of spending on new technologies is not sufficient to make up any shortfall. Developments in the industries we serve, which may be rapid, also could shift demand to new services and solutions. If, as a result of new technologies or changes in the industries we serve, our clients demand new services and solutions, we may be less competitive in these new areas or need to make significant investment to meet that demand. Our growth strategy focuses on responding to these types of developments by driving innovation that will enable us to expand our business into new growth areas. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and adapt to industry developments, or evolve and expand our business at sufficient speed and scale, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments and successfully drive innovation, our services and solutions, our results of operations, and our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and to execute on our growth strategy could be negatively affected. We operate in a rapidly evolving environment in which there currently are, and we expect will continue to be, new technology entrants. New services or technologies offered by competitors or new entrants may make our offerings less differentiated, less competitive or obsolete when compared to other alternatives, which may adversely 15 affect our results of operations. In addition, companies in the industries we serve sometimes seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for the services and solutions we offer, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work if we are not successful in generating new opportunities from the merger or consolidation. Future legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. The topic of companies outsourcing services to organizations operating in other countries is a source of political discussion in many countries. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends toward offshore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that provide services from the United States. In the United States, federal and state measures aimed at limiting or restricting offshore outsourcing have been occasionally proposed and enacted. The measures that have been enacted to date generally have restricted the ability of government entities to outsource work to offshore business process service providers and have not materially adversely affected our business, primarily because we do not currently work for such governmental entities and they are not a focus of our sales strategy. Such measures might, for example, require call centers to disclose their geographic locations, require notice to individuals whose personal information is disclosed to non-U.S. affiliates or subcontractors, require disclosures of companies foreign outsourcing practices, or limit eligibility for government contracts or financial incentives for companies that transfer work to foreign work locations. Measures to expand privacy protections in the United States could discourage offshore outsourcing by, for example, requiring notice and consent as a condition for sharing sensitive personal information with third-party service providers. In addition, public figures in the United States, including the current U.S. President and members of his administration, have suggested that U.S. businesses be subjected to tax or other consequences for outsourcing, with incentives for returning outsourced operations to the U.S., although it is not known what specific measures might be proposed or how they would be implemented and enforced. There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation or executive action in the United States that would significantly adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition will not be enacted. Legislation enacted in certain European jurisdictions and any future legislation in Europe, Japan or any other country in which we have clients restricting the performance of business process services from an offshore location could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, evolving European Union cloud computing standards and regulations and proposed taxes on outsourced data center activities may limit or restrict our operations, or make them more costly. Moreover, legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and by many EU countries, provides that if a company outsources all or part of its business to a service provider or changes its current service provider, the affected employees of the company or of the previous service provider are entitled to become employees of the new service provider, generally on the same terms and conditions as their original employment. In addition, dismissals of employees who were employed by the company or the previous service provider immediately prior to that outsourcing, if the dismissals resulted solely or principally from the outsourcing, are automatically considered unfair dismissals that entitle such employees to compensation. As a result, in order to avoid unfair dismissal claims we may have to offer, and become liable for, voluntary redundancy payments to the employees of our clients in the United Kingdom and other EU countries who have adopted similar laws who transfer business to us. We believe that this legislation could materially affect our ability to obtain new business from companies in the EU and, after including the cost of the potential compensation paid for unfair dismissal claims or redundancies, to provide outsourced services to our current and future clients in the EU in a cost-effective manner. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business. We are subject to, or subject to contractual requirements to comply with or facilitate our clients compliance with, numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters such as anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, taxation, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti- 16 competition, data privacy and protection, wage-and-hour standards, and employment and labor relations. Our clients business operations are also subject to numerous regulations, and our clients may require that we perform our services in compliance with regulations applicable to them or in a manner that will enable them to comply with such regulations. The global nature of our operations increases the difficulty of compliance. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us and/or our employees, prohibitions on doing business, breach of contract damages and harm to our reputation. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws may not be well developed or provide sufficiently clear guidance and may be insufficient to protect our rights. In particular, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, common practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Our employees, subcontractors, agents, joint venture partners, the companies we acquire and their employees, subcontractors and agents, and other third parties with which we associate, could take actions that violate policies or procedures designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation. Tax matters may have an adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions, notably in India where we have substantial operations. Our provision for income taxes, actual tax expense and cash tax liability could be adversely affected by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, lower income before taxes generated in countries with lower tax rates; higher income generated in countries with higher tax rates; changes in tax laws and regulations or in applicable income tax treaties; changes in accounting principles or interpretations thereof or in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; the possible disappearance of certain tax concessions that we have enjoyed in prior years; and adverse outcomes of tax examinations and pending tax-related litigation. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and tax authorities around the world, notably in India where we have substantial operations, and there can be no assurance that negative outcomes from those examinations or any appeals therefrom will not adversely affect our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. For example, the Government of India is appealing a 2011 ruling by the Delhi High Court that Genpact India Private Limited (one of our subsidiaries) cannot be held to be a representative assessee of GE in connection with an assertion that GE has a permanent establishment in India by reason of a 2004 transfer of shares of our predecessor company. We believe that, if the Government of India is successful in its appeal, GE would be obligated to indemnify us for any resulting tax, though there can be no assurance as to the outcome of this matter. In addition, the Government of India issued assessment orders to us in 2014, 2015 and 2016 seeking to assess tax on certain transactions that occurred in 2009, 2010 and 2013. We do not believe that the transactions should be subject to tax in India under applicable law, including due to the relief provided under the Mauritius-India treaty, and have accordingly filed appeals. Our appeal in respect of tax year 2010 has been resolved in our favor. We have received demands for potential tax claims resulting from assessments related to tax years 2009 and 2013 in an aggregate amount of $158 million, including interest. To date, we have paid a total of $20 million toward these demands to the Indian tax authority under protest, and may be required to pay the remainder of the demands pending resolution of the matter. There is no assurance that we will prevail in this matter or similar transactions, including where we have relied on the Mauritius-India treaty, and a final determination of tax in the amounts claimed could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. More generally, the Indian tax authorities may claim that Indian tax is owed with respect to certain of our transactions, such as our acquisitions (including our subsidiaries organized under Indian law or owning assets located in India), internal reorganizations and the sale of our shares in public offerings or otherwise by our existing 17 significant shareholders, in which indirect transfers of Indian subsidiaries or assets are involved. Those authorities may seek to impose tax on us directly or as a withholding agent or representative assessee of the seller in these or other transactions. Furthermore, there is growing pressure in many jurisdictions, including the United States, and from multinational organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the European Union (EU) to amend existing international tax rules in order to render them more responsive to current global business practices. For example, in October 2015 the OECD published a package of measures for reform of the international tax rules as a product of its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) initiative, which was endorsed by the G20 finance ministers. Many of the initiatives in the BEPS package will require amendments to the domestic tax legislation of various jurisdictions. Separately, the European Union is asserting that a number of country-specific favorable tax regimes and rulings in certain member states may violate, or have violated, EU law, and may require rebates of some or all of the associated tax benefits to be paid by benefitted taxpayers in particular cases. In 2016, some members of the U.S. Congress began publicly considering potential tax reform, including the possibility of replacing large parts of the existing federal income tax with a destination-based cash flow tax that could result in higher taxes being imposed on entities buying goods and services provided from outside the United States. The current U.S. President and his administration have stated that they are considering this proposal as well as other potential tax reforms. While the details of any proposed changes in U.S. tax law being discussed are unknown at this point and there is no certainty that any changes will be implemented, any changes imposing higher taxes on entities buying goods and services from outside the United States could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition and could materially reduce the willingness of clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessFuture legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. Although we monitor these developments, it is very difficult to assess to what extent these changes may be implemented in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we conduct our business or may impact the way in which we conduct our business or our effective tax rate due to the unpredictability and interdependency of these potential changes. As these and other tax laws and related regulations and practices change, those changes could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. If the transfer pricing arrangements we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate, our tax liability may increase. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, financing, marketing, sales and delivery functions. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in other countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arms-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be substantially on arms-length terms. If, however, a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and determines that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, or that other income of our affiliates should be taxed in that jurisdiction, we may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flows, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. Historically, GE has accounted for a significant portion of our revenues and any material loss of business from, or change in our relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from GE. For 2014, 2015 and 2016, GE accounted for 20.4%, 18.7% and 13.9% of our revenues, respectively. As a result of GEs publicly announced plan to divest a significant portion of its GE Capital business, our services for GE have declined and we expect that our services for GE will continue to decline as GE concludes the planned divestitures. We intend to continue to make efforts to procure contracts with respect to the divested businesses; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to procure any such contracts or that such contracts would be on favorable terms. In addition, we recently entered into a new master services agreement, or MSA, with GE, effective January 1, 2017, which replaced our prior MSA with GE that expired in December 2016 under which GE was committed to purchase minimum amounts of 18 services annually. Under the new MSA, GE is not obligated to provide us with any exclusivity or opportunity to work on GE projects and GE is no longer required to purchase a minimum amount of services from us. In addition, GE has the right to terminate the MSA or any statement of work in whole or in part for any reason by providing us 30 days notice. As a result of the foregoing, we expect that our revenues from GE will be more volatile in the future and may go through periods of decline as well as increase. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewRevenues for further information regarding our new MSA with GE. We expect that any business with GE that we retain will continue to come from a variety of GEs businesses and that, in general, GEs decisions to use our services will continue to be made by a number of people within GE. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, we expect that the total level of business we receive will continue to depend on the decisions of the various operating managers of such businesses. Finally, there can be no assurance that GE will not establish its own business unit to provide English-language business process services from low-wage countries or otherwise compete with us. Any of the above events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients located in the United States and Europe, as well as on clients that operate in certain industries. If events or conditions occur which adversely affect the economic health of the United States or Europe, demand in the United States or Europe or in certain industries for the type of services we provide, or the rate of growth in the industries in which our clients operate, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In 2016, more than 65% of our revenues were derived from clients based in North America and more than 15% of our revenues were derived from clients based in Europe. Additionally, in 2016, more than 40% of our revenues were derived from clients in the financial services industry, which includes insurance. A number of factors could adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States or Europe, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any deterioration in economic activity in the United States or Europe could adversely affect demand for our services, thus reducing our revenue. Increased regulation, changes in existing regulation or increased government intervention in the industries in which our clients operate may adversely affect growth in such industries and therefore have an adverse impact on our revenues. We may face difficulties in providing end-to-end business solutions or delivering complex and large projects for our clients that could cause clients to discontinue their work with us, which in turn could harm our business. We continue to expand the nature and scope of our engagements, including by incorporating digital solutions that use social, mobility, big data and cloud-based technologies. Our ability to effectively offer a wide breadth of end-to-end business solutions depends on our ability to attract existing or new clients to new service offerings, and the market for end-to-end solutions is highly competitive. We cannot be certain that our new service offerings, particularly our digital offerings, will effectively meet client needs or that we will be able to attract clients to these service offerings. The complexity of our new service offerings, our inexperience in developing or implementing them, and significant competition in the markets for these services may affect our ability to market these services successfully. In addition, the breadth of our existing service offerings continues to result in larger and more complex projects with our clients, which have risks associated with their scope and complexities. Our failure to deliver services that meet the requirements specified by our clients could result in termination of client contracts, and we could be liable to our clients for significant penalties or damages. Larger projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays may result from factors that have little or nothing to do with the quality of our services, such as the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements and inaccuracies in such resource planning and allocation may have a negative impact on our profitability. We may fail to attract and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations. 19 Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled employees and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. Historically, high employee attrition has been common in our industry. See Item 1BusinessOur People. In 2016, our attrition rate for all employees who were employed for a day or more was approximately 26%. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce our level of attrition or even maintain our attrition rate at the 2016 level. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. Competition for qualified employees, particularly in India and China, remains high and we expect such competition to continue. We compete for employees not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies. In many locations in which we operate, there is a limited pool of employees who have the skills and training needed to do our work. If our business continues to grow, the number of people we will need to hire will increase. We will also need to increase our hiring if we are not able to maintain our attrition rate through innovative recruiting and retention policies. Significant competition for employees could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our clients, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs. Wage increases in the countries in which we have operations may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margin. Salaries and related benefits of our employees are our most significant costs. Most of our employees are based in India and other countries in which wage levels have historically been significantly lower than wage levels in the United States and Western Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage levels for comparably skilled employees in most of the countries in which we operate have increased and further increases are expected at a faster rate than in the United States and Western Europe because of, among other reasons, faster economic growth, increased competition for skilled employees and increased demand for business process services. We will lose this competitive advantage to the extent that we are not able to control or share wage increases with our clients. Sharing wage increases may cause our clients to be less willing to utilize our services. In addition, wage increases may reduce our margins. We will attempt to control such costs by our efforts to add capacity in locations where we consider wage levels of skilled personnel to be satisfactory, but we may not be successful in doing so. We may need to increase our wage levels significantly and rapidly in order to attract the quantity and quality of employees that are necessary for us to remain competitive, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have also increased, and expect to further increase, the number of employees we have in the United States from the levels than we have had historically, and this could have a negative effect on our profit margin. Currency exchange rate fluctuations in various currencies in which we do business, especially the Indian rupee, the euro and the U.S. dollar, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remaining amounts largely in euros, UK pounds sterling, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen and the Indian rupee. Most of our expenses are incurred and paid in Indian rupees, with the remaining amounts largely in U.S. dollars, Chinese renminbi, Romanian lei, euros, UK pounds sterling, Philippine pesos, Japanese yen, Polish zloty, Mexican pesos, Guatemalan quetzals, the South African rand and Hungarian forints. As we expand our operations to new countries, we will incur expenses in other currencies. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates between the Indian rupee, the euro and other currencies in which we incur costs or receive revenues, on the one hand, and the U.S. dollar, on the other hand, have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. See