Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking terms such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, could, may, shall, will, would and variations of such words and similar expressions, or the negative of such words or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, which in some cases may be based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined under Item 1ARisk Factors in this Annual Report. These forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to: our ability to retain existing clients and contracts; our ability to win new clients and engagements; the expected value of the statements of work under our master service agreements; our beliefs about future trends in our market; political, economic or business conditions in countries where we have operations or where our clients operate; expected spending on business process outsourcing and information technology services by clients; foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to convert bookings to revenue; our rate of employee attrition; our effective tax rate; and competition in our industry. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results include, among others: our ability to grow our business and effectively manage growth and international operations while maintaining effective internal controls; our dependence on revenues derived from clients in the United States and Europe; our dependence on favorable tax legislation and tax policies that may be amended in a manner adverse to us or be unavailable to us in the future; our ability to successfully consummate or integrate strategic acquisitions; our ability to maintain pricing and asset utilization rates; our ability to hire and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations; increases in wages in locations in which we have operations; our relative dependence on the General Electric Company (GE); ii Table of Contents financing terms, including, but not limited to, changes in the London Interbank Offered rate, or LIBOR; restrictions on visas for our employees traveling to North America and Europe; fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, the Euro, U.K. pound sterling, Chinese renminbi, Hungarian forint, Japanese yen, Indian rupee, Australian dollar, Philippines peso, Guatemalan quetzal, Mexican peso, Polish zloty, Romanian leu, South African rand, Hong Kong dollar, Singapore dollar, Arab Emirates dirham, Brazilian real, Swiss franc, Swedish krona, Danish krone, Thai baht, Kenyan shilling, Czech koruna, Canadian dollar, Colombian peso, Norwegian krone, Peruvian nuevo, Saudi Arabian riyal, Indonesian rupiah and Thai bhat; our ability to retain senior management; the selling cycle for our client relationships; our ability to attract and retain clients and our ability to develop and maintain client relationships on attractive terms; legislation in the United States or elsewhere that adversely affects the performance of business process outsourcing and information technology services offshore; increasing competition in our industry; telecommunications or technology disruptions or breaches, or natural or other disasters; our ability to protect our intellectual property and the intellectual property of others; deterioration in the global economic environment and its impact on our clients, including the bankruptcy of our clients; regulatory, legislative and judicial developments, including the withdrawal of governmental fiscal incentives; the international nature of our business; technological innovation; our ability to derive revenues from new service offerings; and unionization of any of our employees. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable at the time they are made, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties, and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Forms 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. iii Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview Genpact stands for generating business impact. We design, transform, and run intelligent business operations including those that are complex and specific to a set of chosen industries. The result is advanced operating models that assist our clients in becoming more competitive by supporting their growth and managing cost, risk, and compliance across a range of functions such as finance and procurement, financial services account servicing, claims management, regulatory affairs, and industrial asset optimization. Our Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ) proprietary framework helps companies reimagine how they operate by integrating effective Systems of Engagement , core IT, and Data-to-Action Analytics SM . Our hundreds of long-term clients include more than one-fourth of the Fortune Global 500. We employ over 67,000 people in 25 countries with key management and a corporate office in New York City, while remaining flexible and collaborative with a management team that drives client partnerships personally. We believe we generate impact quickly because of our unparalleled experience running complex operations and business domain expertise, driving our focus on what works and making transformation sustainable. We have a unique history: behind our passion for process and operational excellence is the Lean and Six Sigma heritage of a former General Electric division that has served GE businesses for more than 16 years. In 2014, we had net revenues of $2.279 billion, of which $1.813 billion, or 79.6%, was from clients other than GE, which we refer to as Global Clients, with the remaining $466.1 million, or 20.4%, coming from GE. Our business was initially conducted through various entities and divisions of GE. We began operating as an independent company in 2004, when GE placed our operations under a newly-formed Luxembourg company and sold indirect interests in us to our initial private equity sponsors . In 2007, we became a Bermuda company and completed our initial public offering. In 2012, affiliates of Bain Capital Investors, LLC, or Bain Capital, acquired the majority of our initial private equity sponsors interests. As of December 31, 2014, Bain Capital (through its affiliates) owned approximately 26% of our outstanding equity. We use the terms Genpact, Company, we and us to refer to both our predecessor company and its subsidiaries, and Genpact Limited and its subsidiaries. Our registered office is located at Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 12, Bermuda. Our Solution Our vision is to be the global leader in helping businesses make smarter decisions and realize better business outcomes through expertise and a deep understanding of process operations, analytics and technology. We seek to build long-term client relationships with companies that wish to improve the ways in which they do business and to whom we can offer a full range of services. With our broad and deep capabilities and our global delivery platform, our goal is to deliver comprehensive and innovative solutions and continuous process improvement to clients around the world. Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ) SEP SM is our unique and highly granular approach to dramatically improving the performance of business processes. In addition to efficiency, it focuses on maximizing process effectiveness. SEP SM is based on work done in the Genpact Process Innovation Lab, where we have leveraged our exposure to thousands of business processes and hundreds of millions of client transactions to map and analyze end-to-end processes at a granular level. This enables us to test the effectiveness of a clients processes by measuring opportunities for improvement across the value chain using best-in-class benchmarks gleaned from within and across industries and to apply our innovative process design, effective, market-leading technology, 1 Table of Contents and analytical skills and tools to improve them. The result is a client-specific road map for maximizing process effectiveness. Benefits are delivered by combining Genpacts deep domain knowledge of process, key insights and best practices with execution support including focused IT applications and technology, targeted analytics, re-engineering and global delivery services. Unlike other approaches, SEP SM focuses on measuring business outcomes, such as cash flow and margins, which make visible the effectiveness of a process in driving business results. The approach also takes an end-to-end, enterprise-wide view, working beyond traditional organizational silos. Genpact Digital Genpacts Digital practice helps clients reimagine their business operations with an innovative set of advanced technologies along with differentiated core IT services that drive transformative solutions for our clients. Our Systems of Engagement solutions provide an engagement layer of agile, nimble technologies that address end-to-end business processes and are built using social, mobility, big data and cloud-based technologies on a foundation of deep process experience and domain expertise. Our Expertise Our business focuses on industry verticals in banking and financial services, insurance, capital markets, consumer product goods, life sciences, infrastructure, manufacturing and services, healthcare and high tech. Our offerings in these core vertical activities are driven by our broad end-to-end process expertise, which includes: finance and accounting (F&A) services; analytics and research; business consulting and enterprise risk consulting; re-engineering; supply chain and procurement services; enterprise application services; IT management services; and collections and customer services. We seek to deliver significant business impact for our clients by designing, transforming and running a combination of processes, as well as providing multiple services that combine elements of several of our service offerings. In providing services across our global delivery platform, we draw on core capabilities in process expertise, analytical ability and technology expertise, as well as the operational insight we have acquired from our experience in managing thousands of processes for our clients. Process Expertise. We have extensive experience in running a wide range of processes and used this expertise to develop our Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ) proprietary framework. We believe we have built a science of process through SEP SM a unique and highly granular approach to managing business processes. In addition to efficiency, it focuses on maximizing process effectiveness. We also apply the principles of Six Sigma and Lean to eliminate defects and variation and reduce inefficiency. Our Six Sigma and Lean process rigor also allows us to develop and track operational metrics to measure process performance as a means of monitoring service levels and enhancing productivity. 2 Table of Contents Analytical and Research Capabilities. Our analytical and research capabilities are central to our ability to improve business processes. They enable us to work with our clients and identify weaknesses in business processes and redesign and transform them to create additional business value. The confluence of big data, regulatory changes and social media are causing a major shift in the way businesses operate. We help our clients harness data to identify trends and issues, uncover new insights, identify and prevent future risks and fine-tune operations to make smarter decisions and meet business goals. We also rigorously apply analytical methodologies, which we use to measure and enhance performance of our client services. In addition, we apply these methodologies to measure and improve our own internal functions, including recruitment and retention of personnel. Technology Expertise. Our information technology expertise includes extensive knowledge and integration of third-party hardware, network and computing infrastructure, and enterprise resource planning (ERP) and other software applications. We also use technology to better manage the transition of processes, to automate and run processes more efficiently and to replace or redesign processes to enhance productivity. Our ability to combine our business process and IT expertise, along with our Six Sigma and Lean skills, allows us to ensure our clients achieve the full potential of business intelligence platforms and web-based software platforms. Operational Insight. Our operational insight enables us to make the best use of our core capabilities. Operational insight starts with the ability to understand the business context of a process. We place great value on understanding not only the industry in which a client operates, but also the business culture and institutional parameters within which a process is operated. Operational insight also requires the judgment to determine the best way to improve a process in light of the knowledge of best practices across different industries, as well as an appreciation of what solutions can be fully implemented in the context of the particular business environment. Our Strategic Client Model We seek to create long-term relationships with our clients where they view us as an integral part of their organization and not just as a service provider. These relationships often begin with the outsourcing of discrete processes or with shorter-cycle engagements in analytics and research, business consulting, enterprise risk consulting or re-engineering. Over time, these relationships expand to encompass multiple business processes across a broader set of functions and geographic areas. As clients adapt to a constantly changing environment, many are increasingly turning to Genpact for support in transforming their operations to become more competitive. These long-term transformative engagements are global and multi-tower, combining process, technology, and analytics. No matter how large or small the engagement, we strive to be a seamless extension of our clients operations. To achieve this goal, we developed the Genpact Virtual Captive SM model for service delivery, and we may implement all or some of its features in any given client relationship, depending on the clients needs. Under this approach, we provide a client with dedicated employees and management as well as dedicated infrastructure at our delivery centers to create a virtual extension of the clients own team and environment. We train our personnel in the clients culture so that they are familiar not only with the process but with the business environment in which it is being executed. Our Strategy The specific elements of our strategy include the following: Guide Global Enterprises to Best-in-Class Our Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ) framework, built on the foundation of thousands of Lean Six Sigma-based improvement ideas and benchmarks around granular process performance, builds deeper client relationships and delivers measurable business impact over time. Our differentiated framework is critical not only to extending client contracts but also creating an expansive partnership with our clients. 3 Table of Contents Enhance Targeted Vertical Industry and Domain Expertise Clients want partners who know their industry and processes at a granular level. We continue to enhance our industry and domain capabilities through acquisitions and by investing in experienced professionals in our targeted verticals and service areas to improve client intimacy and help us deliver end-to-end services that drive business impact. Differentiate our Solutions by Combining Process Expertise, Analytics and Technology Clients face an environment of uncertainty and change, which requires them to better leverage existing costs and investments, and make more informed decisions that address challenges around regulations and risk, while they continue to drive top-line growth and profitability. The insights we derive from our experience and expertise, combining smarter processes, analytics and technology, help us provide a differentiated solution to these challenges. Expand Geographically in Key Markets We deliver our services and solutions from 18 countries, including seven locations in the United States. We continue to expand and diversify our delivery capabilities in order to be closer to our clients. Our Services The services we provide often draw on processes and platforms from several of our service offerings. We understand that our clients senior management teams are focused on achieving business outcomes, rather than on transferring particular processes or employing particular platforms. Therefore, we focus on understanding the business needs of our clients and the business context of existing processes in order to design appropriate and comprehensive solutions. Our core vertical activities for our clients include the following: Banking and Financial Services . Our banking and financial services core operations include application processing; mortgage origination; wealth management, risk management; account servicing and set-up; collections and customer services; commercial lending, business banking and auto finance. We use our analytics capabilities to help our clients price products, estimate capital and reserve requirements, analyze and monitor portfolios, and manage risk. We also handle reporting and monitoring services for statutory and regulatory compliance, portfolio and performance review services and financial planning and tax services. Our services for financial services clients include investment banking support for deals, asset-backed finance surveillance, trade finance support, payment and fraud operations support, Basel II/III support and risk analysis for derivatives and foreign exchange. Our wealth management services include brokerage and retirement offerings that provide end-to-end process services, including on-boarding, reconciliations, plan administration, fund administration, and trade support. Insurance . Our insurance services include underwriting, claims management, risk and catastrophe modeling, and customer segmentation and loyalty. We offer insurance services to several industry sectorslife and annuities, property and casualty, and reinsuranceand provide what we refer to as a virtual insurance company for our clients in the insurance industry. We cover many phases of insurance business processes including product development, finance, risk management, actuarial, sales and marketing, underwriting support, and claims and policy administration. Capital Markets . Our capital markets practice provides an end-to-end range of information technology services for the capital markets industry, including application development and maintenance; managed services such as quality assurance, testing and production support; business process outsourcing; domain knowledge-based consulting related to technology systems (domain consulting); and consulting not tied 4 Table of Contents to a technology system (business consulting). Areas of domain focus within our capital markets practice include asset and wealth management; risk and compliance; client onboarding; Know Your Customer (KYC); collateral management; post trade processing; and data services, such as reference data and data scrubbing and reconciliation. We have also set up centers of excellence focusing on several technology platforms used by the financial services industry, including platforms focused on brokerage compliance, trade processing and portfolio accounting. Consumer Product Goods . Our consumer product goods services include trade promotion optimization, trade promotion management, order management, master data management, customer service, marketing optimization, supply chain decision services, marketing analytics, market mix modeling, and enterprise services such as finance and accounting, indirect procurement and IT operations. We also provide supplier risk management, supplier recovery audit, shopper analytics, store- and product-mix optimization services. Life Sciences . Our life sciences and pharmaceutical services include contract management for managed markets; regulatory affairs including regulatory strategy, Chemistry Manufacturing Controls (CMC) compliance, regulatory operations and post marketing maintenance; multi-channel customer experience for medical information, sales and marketing, direct-to-consumer support, patient assistance programs (access and reimbursement), and patient support programs; and enterprise services such as F&A, indirect procurement, IT operations, risk management and audit support. We also provide comprehensive analytics services including market research and competitive intelligence, patient level data analysis, physician and drug analysis, social media monitoring and data management. Infrastructure, Manufacturing and Services . Our infrastructure and manufacturing services include enterprise processes such as finance and accounting, indirect procurement and IT operations. Our industry specific solutions include aftermarket services support, industrial asset optimization, engineering services covering the complete product lifecycle from concept to release and sustaining engineering, supply chain management, direct procurement and logistics services. Healthcare . Our healthcare expertise covers a full spectrum of services including end-to-end transactional processes, advanced technology, analytics and consultative and transformational solutions for payers, providers and pharmacy benefit managers. Our payer solutions help manage the end-to-end life cycle of a claim, from claims processing and adjudication to claims recovery and payment integrity. Our regulatory compliance solutions for both payers and providers encompass planning, business alignment systems change management, training and testing. Our FX suite of products, which is delivered using a business process as a service, or BPaaS, model, helps payers in the areas of ICD-10 transition, DRG shift analysis and payment neutrality. Our services for accountable care organizations provide support for setup, population health, revenue administration and performance management. Our provider services, including hospital optimization, clinical coding and revenue cycle management, help providers to deliver an optimal experience to patients, improve efficiency and reduce administrative costs. High Tech . Our high tech services include service support, including customer care service, technical product support and aftermarket services; lead-to-cash; sales force commission management; supply chain and consumer analytics; and enterprise services such as F&A, sourcing and procurement, and IT operations. In addition to these vertical activities, our broad end-to-end process expertise spans a number of service areas, including F&A services, analytics and research, business consulting services, enterprise risk consulting, re-engineering, supply chain and procurement services, enterprise application services, IT management services and collections and customer services. 5 Table of Contents Finance and Accounting (F&A) We are one of the worlds premier providers of F&A services, which services include our Accounts Payable (AP), Order to Cash (OTC), Record to Report (R2R), and Enterprise Risk and Compliance services. Our AP services span the end-to-end AP function and include document management, invoice processing, approval and resolution management. OTC services include customer master data management, credit and contract management, fulfillment, billing, collections, and dispute management services. Genpacts R2R services encompass accounting, closing and reporting (ACR), including SEC reporting, treasury, tax services, financial planning and analysis, and product cost accounting. Genpact Enterprise Risk and Compliance specializes in operational risk, SOX advisory, Basel II and regulatory compliance with services such as enterprise risk management, internal audits, FCPA and IT risk management. In addition to managing our clients finance and accounting processes, we help them design, transform, and run their finance operating models to achieve best-in-class performance. Genpact Systems of Engagement (SoE ) for F&A creates an agile technology layer that complements existing systems of record, providing continuity of information and operations across the entire enterprise. Our SoE modules for OTC, AP, and R2R support smart processes, detailed analytics, and a host of agile technologies, including proprietary cloud-based technology platforms and bolt-on, best-of-breed solutions from our technology partners. Analytics and research We offer analytics services both on a standalone basis and as an integrated part of our other service offerings. We help our clients re-imagine their business operations in the context of analytics and technology through the delivery of Genpact Intelligent Operations SM . The Genpact Intelligent Process Insights Engine has been built using a Systems of Engagement approach to develop a process-aware platform that embeds technology and analytics to deliver purpose-built analytics applications that drive significant business outcomes for clients. We help our clients harness data to assess business opportunities, mitigate risks, improve performance or otherwise help their businesses with the sole objective of generating impact. Companies do not always recognize the inherent potential in data or do not have the capability to apply the rigorous analytical models that might reveal opportunities. Our domain-specific analytics prowess, along with a sophisticated innovation ecosystem, is increasingly embedded in all of our service offerings to help clients make fact-based decisions for superior results. By quantitatively and qualitatively scrutinizing data, we can deliver the insight necessary to assess a new business opportunity, mitigate market risks, or retain and build market share. Business consulting and enterprise risk consulting We partner with our clients through the entire lifecycle of designing, transforming and running a varied set of their commercial processes. In this journey, our business consulting and enterprise risk consulting groups help clients create the right design and target operating models for their commercial functions by developing transformation roadmaps and helping to execute the roadmaps for such processes. For our clients for whom we run processes in addition to designing their process roadmaps, the business and enterprise risk consulting teams also support the operating teams to deliver the value and transformation we have committed to provide. Our business consulting and enterprise risk consulting business is built on our deep expertise in process, our ability to leverage state-of-the-art technology, our competence in designing mitigation strategies that are woven into core operating processes, and our unique skills in applying cutting-edge analytics to drive fundamental shifts in business performance. Re-engineering Our re-engineering services, which we also refer to as our transformation services, help clients realize cost savings or increased revenues by improving processes that are underperforming or designing processes that are needed to meet growth objectives. Clients engage our transformation teams to provide an end-to-end view of 6 Table of Contents their organization and help determine business process needs at a strategic level as well as at the execution level. Strategically, we help clients achieve a comprehensive assessment of how well their enterprise-level processes such as source-to-pay, order-to-cash, record-to-report, inquiry-to-order, new product introduction and sales force effectiveness perform against industry benchmarks and best practices. At the execution level, we institutionalize the recommendations by deploying resources to train the client team and drive sustainable best practices. Supply Chain and Procurement Our supply chain and procurement services include direct and indirect sourcing and procurement services, demand forecasting and management services, engineering services, inventory optimization and planning services, fleet and logistics services and aftermarket services. We work with our clients to design, execute and support optimum sourcing strategies for different expense categories and to drive compliance in the execution of those strategies and realize significant reductions in client sourcing expenses. This often includes designing sourcing and procurement processes to reduce operational costs, overhauling inventory planning systems to optimize inventory levels and improve fulfillment levels, designing and implementing logistics services that integrate disparate technology systems and provide dynamic digital dashboard reporting, or designing aftermarket services systems that ensure fulfillment of contractual obligations and improved service productivity. We commonly utilize our technology expertise in delivering our services in this area, particularly in automating order management processes and monitoring and optimizing supply chain logistics. We have competency in many of the custom platforms used by our clients and are not tied to any single platform or vendor. Enterprise Application Services With our enterprise application services, we plan, design, build, test, implement, run and support software solutions for our clients. We leverage our functional and domain knowledge and use Six Sigma and Lean principles to reduce the cycle time of software implementations. This can include ERP, supply chain management, financial management and customer relationship management solutions, as well as testing, database administration and architecture services. We also have significant expertise in Hyperion, SAS and Cognos, and platform support for ERP systems such as Oracle, SAP and Microsoft. IT Management Services Our IT management services consist of end user computing, IT infrastructure, database, security and production support services. We provide support in more than 25 languages with a global footprint of native speakers. We provide monitoring and management of clients data centers, servers, storage, emails, networks, databases, applications and end user devices. We use a network of Remote Operations Centers to provide 24/7 infrastructure monitoring and management. Along with ITIL (ISO 20000), we use Six Sigma and Lean principles to address technology problems and to enable our clients to align their IT to business priorities and at the same time reduce technology costs. We use our proprietary SEP SM framework Service Disruption to Restore (D2R), along with our accelerators and IP frameworks, to continuously reduce defects and create business priority outcomes. We also provide cloud enablement services, ITIL implementation services and comprehensive BPaaS services. Collections and Customer Services Our collections and customer services are provided primarily in the areas of consumer finance, business to business collections and mortgage services. Our collections services include a full range of accounts receivable management services, such as early to late stage collections, skip-tracing, refunds and other specialized services. In our collections services, we act as an agent only; we do not acquire debts for our own account or handle debtor payments. Our customer services include account servicing and customer care services such as handling customer queries, general servicing and dispute resolution. We provide voice and non-voice services, and we also provide origination and order management services. 7 Table of Contents Our Clients Our clients include some of the best known companies in the world, many of which are leaders in their respective industries. GE has been our largest client since our inception and we benefit from a long-term contract whereby GE has committed to purchase stipulated minimum dollar amounts of services through the end of 2016. GE accounted for approximately 20.4% of our revenues in fiscal 2014. We currently provide services to most of GEs business units, including GE Capital, Power and Water, Oil and Gas, Energy Management, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation and Home and Business Solutions. The services we currently provide to GE are broad in their nature and are drawn from all of our service offerings. Although we have a single master services agreement, or MSA, with GE, we have a large number of statements of work, or SOWs, with GE. Currently, as a general matter, each GE business unit makes its own decisions as to whether to enter into a SOW with us and as to the terms of any such SOW. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, our revenues from GE are generally attributable to a number of different businesses each with its own leader responsible for decision-making regarding our services. We have over 800 clients spread across a variety of industries and geographies. Our net revenues from Global Clients have grown rapidly in the last five years, from $668.7 million in 2009 to $1.813 billion in 2014. Our net revenues from Global Clients as a percentage of total net revenues increased from 59.7% in 2009 to 79.6% in 2014. Our 2014 net revenues from Global Clients include $13.6 million for businesses that were part of GE in 2013 and 2014 prior to their divestiture by GE. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsClassification of Certain Net Revenues. The majority of our Global Clients are based in the United States, and we also have Global Clients in Europe, Asia and Australia. Our contracts with our clients generally take the form of an MSA, which is a framework agreement that is then supplemented by SOWs. Our MSAs specify the general terms applicable to the services we will provide. For a description of our MSAs and SOWs, see Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewRevenues. Our clients include AstraZeneca, CVS Caremark, Citigroup, GE, GlaxoSmithKline, Honeywell, Hyatt, Ironshore, Merck, National Australia Bank, Nissan, Symantec, Walgreens and Wells Fargo. Our People Our people are critical to the success of our business. Our Chief Executive Officer and other members of our senior leadership team have been involved in our business since its commencement under GE resulting in an experienced and cohesive leadership team. Many members of our leadership team developed their management skills working within GE and many of them were involved in the founding of our business. They have built our business based on the experience gained in helping GE meet a wide range of challenges. As a result, we are an institutional embodiment of much of the wisdom and experience GE developed in improving and managing its own business processes. We have created, and constantly reinforced, a culture that emphasizes teamwork, constant improvement of our processes and, most importantly, dedication to the client. We manage this challenge through innovative human resource practices. These include broadening the employee pool by opening delivery centers in diverse locations, using innovative recruiting techniques to attract the best employees, emphasizing ongoing training, instilling a vibrant and distinctive culture and providing well-defined, long-term career paths. We also have programs modeled on GE management training programs to develop the next generation of leaders and managers of our business. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 67,900 employees. We monitor and manage our attrition rate very closely, and believe it is one of the lowest in the industry. We attribute this to our reputation, our ability to attract high quality applicants, our emphasis on maintaining our culture and the breadth of exposure, experience and opportunity for advancement that we provide to our employees. 8 Table of Contents Six Sigma and Lean Methodologies Six Sigma is a method for improving process quality by removing variation, defects and their causes in business activities while Lean is a methodology for reducing waste or inefficiency in a process. Among other things, it is designed to measure and eliminate overproduction, over-processing and waiting, and to improve the flow of a process. We have Six Sigma programs that train, test and grade employees in Lean and Six Sigma principles and award them Lean Six Sigma qualifications. The rankings of Lean Six Sigma qualifications from lowest to highest are green belt, black belt and master black belt. As of December 31, 2014, we had more than 15,500 employees with Six Sigma green belt training, over 600 employees with Six Sigma black belt training, and more than 42,000 Lean-trained employees. This large number of employees with Six Sigma and Lean training helps infuse our organization with a disciplined, analytical approach to everything we do. Recruiting We face meaningful competition for skilled employees in every jurisdiction in which we operate. We have refined our talent acquisition strategy by organizing our recruiting teams by industry vertical and utilizing an internal executive recruiting team, social media platforms, online job portals and professional search firms to recruit globally. Our internal employee referral program has also become a key recruiting vehicle for us. We believe that our focus on our employees career development makes us attractive to candidates beyond our delivery center locations. Training and Development We believe in extensive and continuous training of our employees. We have the infrastructure to train approximately 6,450 people at any one time with 235 trainers. In 2014, we had more than 15,800 employees enrolled in part-time professional degree, e-learning and other non-degree programs provided internally or by universities and other third parties. Our training programs are designed to transfer the industry-specific knowledge and experience of our industry leaders to our employees to ensure we maintain our deep process and domain expertise across the industries and processes in which we work. Our training programs cover a large number of topics, including specific service offerings, key technical and IT skills, our different clients workplace cultures and Six Sigma and Lean methodologies. A large part of our continuous training is designed to impart the skills and knowledge required by our employees to move to positions of increasing responsibility within Genpact. We also have programs modeled on GE management training programs to develop the next generation of leaders and managers of our business. We run these programs for employees at various levels of management, including front-line managers, and middle and senior management. We are working with universities, colleges, governments and private institutes in some of the countries we operate in to develop talent supply chains. We are seeking to ensure the continued availability of skilled workers in the countries in which we operate. Retention In order to meet our growth and service commitments, we are constantly striving to attract and retain employees. There is significant turnover of employees in the business process outsourcing and information technology sectors generally, particularly in India where the majority of our employees are currently based. Our attrition rate for all employees who have been employed by us for one day or more was 25% in 2014. We believe this rate is relatively low for our industry based on statistics published by industry associations such as NASSCOM. We attribute this low attrition rate to a number of factors, including our effective recruiting 9 Table of Contents measures, extensive training and a strong culture of providing opportunities for growth and learning. Approximately 13% of our employees were promoted in 2014, and we filled a majority of new positions internally. We also take aggressive action to monitor and minimize potential attrition. Using Six Sigma principles we have developed an early warning system that tracks employees and gives us an insight into which employees are most likely to resign. These employees are automatically highlighted to management who can take action such as relocating the employee or enrolling the employee in continuing education programs to increase the likelihood of retention. As another measure designed to minimize attrition, we right-skill our employees to the tasks assigned to them. This means that we match the level of services required to the experience and qualification of the employee concerned and we avoid having over-qualified people in any particular job. This allows us to give our highly qualified and experienced people higher-value jobs and, coupled with the practice of up-skilling, ensures better career paths for all of our employees. Corporate Social Responsibility Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative aims to integrate our social and environmental priorities with our operational fabric. Genpacts approach to CSR focuses on three pillars that reflect our strengths and core expertise as well as causes that our employees are passionate about: Education and employability Environment and sustainability Inclusion We have institutionalized a culture of giving and volunteering through a number of global platforms, programs, projects and social initiatives. Among other things, our employee volunteers help underprivileged children and women to develop vocational skills; work on environmental initiatives such as rejuvenating urban forest land and participating in cleaning drives; and participate in programs that address the health and nutritional needs of the underprivileged. Our Alliances We have entered into partnerships or alliances with companies whose capabilities complement ours in an effort to enhance our existing solutions or create new solutions to address an existing market need. Such alliances may be transaction or deal-specific, may be for the development of joint capabilities in a service line or may take the form of enterprise-wide transformational partnerships. For example, we have entered into a joint venture with Markit Limited to create a streamlined service to manage Know-Your-Customer information for clients in our capital markets vertical. Sales and Marketing We market our services to both existing and potential clients through our business development team. Members of this team are based around the globe, including in the United States, Europe, Australia, Asia, and the Middle East, and dedicate their time to expanding the services we provide to our existing clients as well as acquiring new clients. We have designated client partners or global relationship managers for each of our strategic relationships. The relationship manager is supported by process improvement, quality, transition, finance, human resources, 10 Table of Contents information technology and industry/product subject matter expert teams to ensure the best possible solution is provided to our clients. We constantly measure our client satisfaction levels to ensure that we maintain high service levels for each client, using measures such as the Net Promoter Score. Our sales force is primarily organized by industry vertical teams that are supported by horizontal product offerings. The length of our selling cycle varies depending on the type of engagement. The sales cycle for project work is much shorter than the sales cycle for a large business process engagement. Our efforts may begin in response to our lead generation program, a perceived opportunity, a reference by an existing client, a request for proposal or otherwise. In addition to our business development personnel, the sales effort involves people from the relevant service areas, people familiar with that prospective clients industry, business leaders and Six Sigma resources. We may expend substantial time and resources in securing new business. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewRevenues. As our relationship with a client grows, the time required to win an engagement for additional services often gradually declines. In addition, as we become more knowledgeable about a clients business and processes, our ability to identify opportunities to create value for the client typically increases. For example, productivity benefits and greater business impact can often be achieved by applying our SEP methodology, by focusing on processes that are upstream or downstream from the processes we initially handle, or by applying our analytical and IT capabilities to re-engineer processes. In addition, clients often become more willing over time to turn over more complex and critical processes to us as we demonstrate our capabilities. We also strive to foster relationships between our senior leadership team and our clients senior management. These C-level relationships ensure that both parties are focused on establishing priorities, aligning objectives and driving client value from the top down. High-level executive relationships have been particularly constructive as a means of increasing business from our existing clients. It also provides us with a forum for addressing client concerns. Our governance methodology is designed to ensure that we are well connected at all levels of our clients organizations (executive, management and operations). We follow a rigorous review process to evaluate significant new business opportunities. This process starts with the presentation of new business to a deal review committee comprised of business and sales leaders from the applicable industry vertical, operations personnel, and members of our finance department. The committee applies a set of well-developed criteria to review the key terms of the new business. If, as a result of the review, the committee concludes that the new business is aligned with our strategic objectives and a good use of our resources, then our business development team is authorized to pursue the opportunity. Global Delivery Platform A key differentiator for us is our global network of 72 delivery centers in 18 countries. We also have a number of employees who work directly in client locations or provide services from a virtual environment which offers flexibility for both clients and employees. Our presence in locations around the world provides us with multi-lingual capabilities, access to a larger talent pool, near-shoring capabilities to take advantage of time zones, as well as the ability to provide services from the United States. With this network, we manage complex processes in multiple geographic regions. We use different locations for different types of services depending on the specific client needs and the mix of skills and cost of employees available in each location. We choose the location of our delivery centers based on a number of factors, which include the available talent pool, infrastructure, government support and operating costs, as well as client demand. We have been a pioneer in our industry in opening centers in several cities in India as well as in some of the other countries in which we operate. We were one of the first companies in our industry to establish operating centers in certain locations, including Dalian, Foshan and Huaqiao in China; Bucharest, Romania; and Gurgaon, Hyderabad, Jaipur and Kolkata in India. We constantly evaluate new locations, including new countries and new cities within countries in which we currently operate, as potential sites for delivery centers and offices. Our delivery centers are located in Brazil, China, Colombia, the Czech Republic, England, Guatemala, India, Japan, 11 Table of Contents Kenya, Mexico, the Netherlands, Northern Ireland, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates and the United States. As of December 31, 2014, we provided services in more than 30 languages. The large number of different countries from which we serve our clients differentiates us from a number of our competitors and enables us to take advantage of different languages and time zones which, in turn, enhances our ability to serve our clients. Intellectual Property Increasingly, the solutions we offer our clients include a range of proprietary methodologies, software, and reusable knowledge capital. We also develop intellectual property in the course of our business and our agreements with our clients regulate the ownership of such intellectual property. We regularly apply for patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights and domain names to protect our intellectual property. Some of our intellectual property rights are trade secrets and relate to proprietary business process enhancements. At times, we use third-party software platforms and the software systems of our clients to provide our services. Our agreements with our clients normally include a license to use the clients proprietary systems to provide our services. Clients authorize us to access and use third party software licenses held by the client so that we may provide our services. It is our practice to enter into agreements with our employees and independent contractors that: ensure that all new intellectual property developed by our employees or independent contractors in the course of their employment or engagement is assigned to us; provide for employees and independent contractors cooperation in intellectual property protection matters even if they no longer work for us; and include a confidentiality undertaking by our employees and independent contractors. Competition We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving global market. We have a number of competitors offering services that are the same as or similar to ours. Our competitors include: large multinational service providers, such as Accenture plc, Capgemini S.A. and International Business Machines Corporation, and large multinational accounting firms, such as Deloitte Consulting LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP; companies that are primarily business process service providers operating from low-cost countries, most commonly India, such as ExlService Holdings, Inc. and WNS Holdings Limited; companies that are primarily information technology service providers with some business process service capabilities, such as Cognizant Technology Solutions, Infosys Technologies Limited, Tata Consultancy Services Limited and Wipro Limited; and smaller, niche service providers that provide services in a specific geographic market, industry or service area. In addition, a client or potential client may choose not to outsource its business, including by setting up captive outsourcing operations or by performing formerly outsourced services for themselves. Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our industry include: skills and capabilities; technical and industry expertise; 12 Table of Contents innovative service and product offerings; ability to add value, including through continuous process improvement; reputation and client references; contractual terms, including competitive pricing; scope of services; quality of services and solutions; ability to sustain long-term client relationships; and global reach and scale. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis. Regulation We are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions around the world as a result of the complexity of our operations and services, including at the federal, state and local level, particularly in the countries where we have operations and where we deliver services. We are also subject to regulation by regional bodies such as the European Union, or EU. In addition, the terms of our service contracts typically require that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. In some contracts, we are required to comply even if such laws and regulations apply to our clients, but not to us. In other service contracts our clients undertake the responsibility to inform us about laws and regulations that may apply to us in jurisdictions in which they are located. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we may be restricted in our ability to provide services, and may also be the subject of civil or criminal actions involving penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our clients generally have the right to terminate our contracts for cause in the event of regulatory failures, subject to notice periods. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessOur global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business. In the United States, we are subject to laws and regulations arising out of our work for clients operating there, especially in the area of banking, financial services and insurance, such as the Financial Modernization Act (sometimes referred to as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the USA Patriot Act, the Bank Service Company Act, the Home Owners Loan Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the Troubled Assets Relief Program as well as regulation by U.S. agencies such as the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. We are also subject to regulation under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, the Communications Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act and applicable regulations in the area of health and other personal information that we process as part of our services. Because of our debt collections work in the United States, we are also regulated by laws such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act and the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act and underlying regulations. We are currently licensed to engage in debt collection activities in all jurisdictions in the United States. 13 Table of Contents Because of our mortgage processing activities in the United States, we are also regulated by laws such as the Fair Housing Act and the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and by regulatory bodies such as the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. We currently hold mortgage related licenses in 47 states and the District of Columbia. Because of our insurance processing activities, we are currently licensed as a third party administrator in 41 states and are regulated by the department of insurance in each such state. We are subject to laws in the United States, the United Kingdom and the EU that are intended to limit the impact of outsourcing on employees in those countries. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessFuture legislation in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. We are also subject to laws and regulations on direct marketing, such as the Telemarketing Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act and the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and rules promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission, and the CAN-SPAM Act. We are subject to laws and regulations governing foreign trade, such as the Arms Export Control Act, as well as by government bodies such as the Commerce Departments Bureau of Industry and Security, the State Departments Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control. Our service delivery centers benefit from tax incentives or concessional rates provided by laws and regulations in India, China, Colombia, the Philippines and Guatemala. The Indian Special Economic Zones Act of 2005, or SEZ legislation, introduced a tax holiday in certain situations for operations established in designated special economic zones, or SEZs. The SEZ tax benefits are available only for new business operations that are conducted at qualifying SEZ locations. We cannot predict what percentage of our operations or income in India or other jurisdictions in future years will be eligible for a tax holiday. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewIncome Taxes. In addition to the tax holidays described above, certain benefits are also available to us under certain Indian state laws. These benefits include rebates and waivers in relation to payments for the transfer or registration of property (including for the purchase or lease of premises), waivers of conversion fees for land, exemption from state pollution control requirements, entry tax exemptions, labor law exemptions and commercial usage of electricity. Our hedging activities and currency transfer are restricted by regulations in certain countries, including India, Romania and China. Certain Bermuda Law Considerations As a Bermuda company, we are also subject to regulation in Bermuda. Among other things, we must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 1981 regulating the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions from contributed surplus. We are classified as a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Pursuant to our non-resident status, we may engage in transactions in currencies other than Bermuda dollars. There are no restrictions on our ability to transfer funds in and out of Bermuda or to pay dividends to United States residents that are holders of our common shares. Under Bermuda law, exempted companies are companies formed for the purpose of conducting business outside Bermuda from a principal place of business in Bermuda. As an exempted company, we may not, without a license granted by the Minister of Education and Economic Development, participate in certain business transactions, including transactions involving Bermuda landholding rights and the carrying on of business of any kind for which we are not licensed in Bermuda. 14 Table of Contents Available Information We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC, copies of which can be obtained from the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge on our website, www.genpact.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Executive Officers The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers as of February 15, 2015: Name Age Position(s) N.V. Tyagarajan 53 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Edward Fitzpatrick 48 Chief Financial Officer Patrick Cogny 48 Senior Vice President, Infrastructure, Manufacturing and Services Victor Guaglianone 59 Senior Vice President and General Counsel Piyush Mehta 46 Senior Vice President, Human Resources Arvinder Singh 50 Senior Vice President, Capital Markets and IT Services Mohit Thukral 49 Senior Vice President, Banking, Financial Services and Insurance N.V. Tyagarajan has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since June 2011. From February 2009 to June 2011, he was our Chief Operating Officer. From February 2005 to February 2009, he was our Executive Vice President and Head of Sales, Marketing and Business Development. From October 2002 to January 2005, he was Senior Vice President, Quality and Global Operations, for GEs Commercial Equipment Finance division. Between 1999 and 2002, he served as our Chief Executive Officer. Edward Fitzpatrick became our Chief Financial Officer in July 2014. Prior to joining Genpact, he spent 13 years at Motorola Solutions Inc., most recently serving as executive vice president and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to Motorola, he worked at General Instrument Corporation and Price Waterhouse, LLP. Patrick Cogny has served as our Senior Vice President of Infrastructure, Manufacturing and Services since September 2011. From 2005 to August 2011, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Genpact Europe. Prior to this, he spent 15 years working for GE in the Healthcare business and in the GE Europe corporate headquarters, in France, the United States and Belgium. Victor Guaglianone has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary since January 2007. From 2004 to 2007, he was senior counsel at Holland & Knight LLP. From 2003 to 2004, he served as a commercial arbitrator for the American Arbitration Association. Prior to 2003, he spent 16 years at GE Capital, most recently as Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Piyush Mehta has served as our Senior Vice President of Human Resources since March 2005. He has worked for us since 2001 as Vice President of Human Resources. Arvinder Singh has served as our Senior Vice President, Capital Markets and IT Services since October 2013. From August 2011 to October 2013, he was Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing, Client Relationships and Re-engineering. From August 2008 to July 2011, he was Global Head of Client Relationships 15 Table of Contents and GE, and from June 2005 to August 2008 he was the Business Leader for Lean Six Sigma, Transitions and Solutions. Prior to joining Genpact in June 2005 he was Senior Vice President, Six Sigma and Chief Quality Officer for GE Vendor Financial Services. Mohit Thukral has served as our Senior Vice President, Banking, Financial Services and Insurance since 2004. He was also responsible for our healthcare business from July 2011 to December 2014. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients businesses and levels of business activity. Global macroeconomic conditions affect our clients businesses and the markets they serve. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions in our significant markets have undermined and could in the future undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other markets, which are increasingly interdependent, and cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new initiatives, or may result in clients reducing, delaying or eliminating spending under existing contracts with us, which would negatively affect our business. Growth in the markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate or contract, in each case, for an extended period of time. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate and the industries we serve have affected and may in the future affect demand for our services. A material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our clients in North America and Europe. Weak demand or a slower-than-expected recovery in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty and changing demand patterns affect our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand and effectively build our revenue and resource plans. Economic volatility and uncertainty is particularly challenging because it may take some time for the effects and changes in demand patterns resulting from these and other factors to manifest themselves in our business and results of operations. Changing demand patterns from economic volatility and uncertainty could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. GE accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and any loss of business from, or change in our relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have derived and are likely to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from GE. For 2012, 2013 and 2014, GE accounted for 26.1%, 22.6% and 20.4% of our revenues, respectively. In addition, our more mature client relationships, such as GE, typically generate higher margins than our relationships with newer clients. The loss of business from GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our master services agreement, or MSA, with GE commits GE to purchase, on an annual basis through 2016, a stipulated minimum dollar amount of services or pay us certain costs in lieu thereof. The costs that GE would be required to pay if it does not meet a minimum annual commitment are not necessarily equal to the amount by which GEs purchases fall short of that minimum annual commitment. While our revenues from GE in 2014 significantly exceeded the stipulated minimum annual amount for that year, there is no assurance that actual revenues from GE in future years will meet or exceed the minimum annual commitment or that GE will continue to be a client at all. Revenues in excess of the minimum annual commitment can be credited, subject to certain limitations, against shortfalls in subsequent years. In addition, under the MSA the minimum annual committed amount of $360 million is reduced during the last three years of the term, to $250 million in 2014, $150 million in 2015 and $90 million in 2016. The MSA provides that the minimum annual committed amount is subject to reduction in certain circumstances, including as a result of the termination of any statements of work, or SOWs, by GE for cause, non-performance of services by us due to specified force majeure 16 Table of Contents events or certain other reasons. The MSA also does not require GE to engage us exclusively in respect of business process services. In addition, pricing terms and pricing levels under future SOWs may be lower than in the past. In particular, because of the size of GE and its importance to our business, it is able to exert considerable leverage on us when negotiating the terms of SOWs. Our business from GE comes from a variety of GEs businesses and decisions to use our services are currently, as a general matter, made by a number of people within GE. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, the total level of business we receive generally depends on the decisions of the various operating managers of such businesses. In addition, if GE sells or divests any of the businesses to which we provide services, the new management or new owners of such businesses may choose to discontinue our services. Finally, there can be no assurance that GE will not establish its own business unit to provide English-language business process services from low-wage countries or otherwise compete with us. Future legislation in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. The topic of companies outsourcing services to organizations operating in other countries is a source of political discussion in many countries. For example, many organizations and public figures in the United States have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore service providers and the loss of jobs in the United States. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends toward offshore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that provide services from the United States. In the United States, federal and state measures aimed at limiting or restricting offshore outsourcing have been occasionally proposed and enacted. The measures that have been enacted to date generally have restricted the ability of government entities to outsource work to offshore business process service providers and have not materially adversely affected our business, primarily because we do not currently work for such governmental entities and they are not currently a focus of our sales strategy. Such legislation might, for example, require call centers to disclose their geographic locations, require notice to individuals whose personal information is disclosed to non-U.S. affiliates or subcontractors, require disclosures of companies foreign outsourcing practices, or limit eligibility for government contracts or financial incentives for companies that transfer work to foreign work locations. Legislation to expand privacy protections in the United States could discourage offshore outsourcing by, for example, requiring notice and consent as a condition for sharing sensitive personal information with third party service providers. In addition, the current U.S. President has encouraged tax incentives for U.S. businesses to insource functions or return outsourced operations to the U.S. There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation in the United States that would significantly adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition will not be enacted. Legislation enacted in certain European jurisdictions and any future legislation in Europe, Japan or any other country in which we have clients restricting the performance of business process services from an offshore location could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, evolving European Union cloud computing standards and regulations and proposed taxes on outsourced data center activities may limit or restrict our operations, or make them more costly. Moreover, legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and by many EU countries, provides that if a company outsources all or part of its business to a service provider or changes its current service provider, the affected employees of the company or of the previous service provider are entitled to become employees of the new service provider, generally on the same terms and conditions as their original employment. In addition, dismissals of employees who were employed by the company or the previous service provider immediately prior to that outsourcing, if the dismissals resulted solely or principally from the outsourcing, are automatically considered unfair dismissals that entitle such employees to compensation. As a result, in order to avoid unfair dismissal claims we may have to offer, and become liable for, voluntary redundancy payments to the employees of our clients in the United Kingdom and other EU countries 17 Table of Contents who have adopted similar laws who transfer business to us. We believe that this legislation could materially affect our ability to obtain new business from companies in the EU and, after including the cost of the potential compensation paid for unfair dismissal claims or redundancies, to provide outsourced services to our current and future clients in the EU in a cost-effective manner. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business. We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, taxation, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, wage-and-hour standards, and employment and labor relations. Our clients business operations are also subject to numerous regulations, and our clients may require that we perform our services in a manner that will enable them to comply with such regulations. The global nature of our operations increases the difficulty of compliance. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us and/or our employees, prohibitions on doing business, breach of contract damages and harm to our reputation. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws may not be well developed or provide sufficiently clear guidance and may be insufficient to protect our rights. In particular, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws, or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Our employees, subcontractors, agents, joint venture partners, the companies we acquire and their employees, subcontractors and agents, and other third parties with which we associate, could take actions that violate policies or procedures designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation. Tax matters, new legislation and actions by taxing authorities may have an adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax expense and cash tax liability could be adversely affected by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, changes in tax laws and regulations, changes in accounting principles or interpretations, and potential adverse outcomes of tax examinations and pending tax-related litigation. Changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which may result from a decline in our profitability or changes in tax rates or legislation, could have a material adverse effect on our tax expense. Foreign governments in jurisdictions from which we deliver services may assert that certain of our clients have a permanent establishment in such foreign jurisdictions by reason of the activities we perform on their behalf, particularly if those clients exercise control over or have substantial dependency on our services. Such an assertion by foreign governments could affect the size and scope of the services requested in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In 2007, the Government of India served us with notice regarding our potential liability, as a representative assessee of GE, for Indian tax with respect to GEs 2004 transfer of shares of our predecessor company. GE challenged the positions of the Government of India in the Delhi High Court, and named Genpact India (one of our subsidiaries) as a necessary party without seeking relief against Genpact India. In 2011, the Delhi High Court ruled that Genpact India cannot be held to be a representative assessee in this transaction. The tax authorities have filed an appeal with the Supreme Court of India against this ruling, which appeal is currently pending. We believe that if it were determined that Indian tax is due for the 2004 transfer of shares, such tax could not be 18 Table of Contents successfully asserted against us as a representative assessee and, even if such tax was successfully asserted against us as a representative assessee, we believe that GE would be obligated to indemnify us for such tax. Indian tax authorities may claim that Indian tax is owed with respect to certain of our transactions, such as our acquisitions (including our subsidiaries organized under Indian law or owning assets located in India), internal reorganizations and the sale of our shares in public offerings or otherwise by our existing significant shareholders, in which indirect transfers of Indian subsidiaries or assets are involved. Indian tax authorities may seek to impose tax on us directly or as a withholding agent or representative assessee of the seller in these or other transactions. In 2012, the Government of India enacted legislation purporting to clarify the intent of existing tax law (and hence the law applicable in prior periods) to tax all income accruing or arising, whether directly or indirectly, through or from any business connection in India, or through or from any property in India, or through or from any asset or source of income in India, or through the transfer of a capital asset situate in India. The legislation, which we refer to as the Indirect Transfer Rule, also provides that an asset or a capital asset being any share or interest in a company or entity registered or incorporated outside India shall be deemed to be situated in India, if the share or interest derives, directly or indirectly, its value substantially from the assets located in India. Substantially has not been defined for purposes of the Indirect Transfer Rule. Public commentary on the legislation, including statements by various officials of the Government of India, has suggested that the legislation was intended to allow for the taxation of indirect transfer of shares in an Indian company, possibly with retrospective effect. The full implications and scope of this legislation, and how its provisions will be interpreted and applied remain unclear, but arguably could apply to certain transactions in which we are involved as noted above. Because there are significant uncertainties relating to the application of the Indirect Transfer Rule to transactions in shares of non-Indian companies that have significant assets and operations in India, it is not clear whether, or to what extent, a buyer of any shares issued by us could be held liable for failure to withhold Indian tax on the purchase of such shares or be subject to Indian tax on gains realized on the disposition of such shares. In addition, the Government of India issued an assessment order to us in 2014 seeking to assess tax on certain transactions that occurred in 2009 and 2010. We do not believe that the transactions should be subject to tax in India, primarily due to the relief provided under the Mauritius-India Treaty, and have accordingly filed an appeal. In May 2014, we received a demand for a potential tax claim resulting from this assessment for approximately $43 million, including interest. To date, we have paid $15 million to the Indian tax authority under protest, and may be required to pay the remainder of the demand pending resolution of the matter. There is no assurance that we will prevail in this matter or similar transactions where we have relied on the Mauritius-India Treaty, and a final determination of tax in the amounts claimed could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. Further, the Governments of India, the United States or other jurisdictions could enact new tax legislation, including anti-avoidance provisions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In 2012, the Indian government enacted anti-avoidance provisions, which are proposed to take effect on April 1, 2015. The full implications and scope of the new anti-avoidance provisions, if implemented, as well as how these changes may apply to us, are presently unclear. In addition, in 2013, the Indian government enacted changes to taxation on distributions from Indian companies. Our ability to repatriate surplus earnings from our subsidiaries in a tax-efficient manner is dependent upon interpretations of local laws and may vary with changes in such laws and the renegotiation of existing double tax treaties. Such changes may affect our overall effective tax rate, and increase the cost of our services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Over the past few years certain tax benefits provided to companies in our industry have expired and it is not clear whether new tax policies will provide equivalent benefits and incentives. In the absence of tax holidays or concessional rates, income derived from our Indian operations may be taxed up to the maximum tax rate generally applicable to Indian enterprises, which, as of December 31, 2014, was 34.0%. 19 Table of Contents During the last eight years, we established new centers that we believe are eligible for tax benefits under the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005. The SEZ legislation introduced a 15-year tax holiday scheme for operations established in designated special economic zones or SEZs. Under the SEZ legislation, qualifying operations are eligible for a deduction from taxable income equal to (i) 100% of their profits or gains derived from the export of services for a period of five years from the commencement of operations; (ii) 50% of such profits or gains for the next five years; and (iii) 50% of such profits or gains for an additional period of five years, subject to satisfying certain capital investment requirements. The SEZ legislation provides, among other restrictions, that this holiday is not available to operations formed by splitting up or reconstructing existing operations or transferring existing plant and equipment (beyond a prescribed limit) to new SEZ locations. The percentage of our operations or income in India that is eligible for SEZ benefits is variable, and depends, among other factors, upon how much of our business can be conducted at the qualifying locations and how much of that business can be considered to meet the restrictive conditions described above. As the SEZ legislation benefits phase out, our Indian tax expense may materially increase and our after-tax profitability may be materially reduced, unless we can obtain comparable benefits under new legislation or otherwise reduce our tax liability. Similarly, alternative minimum taxes are imposed by certain jurisdictions on otherwise exempt income, which may increase our tax expense in future years. Our delivery centers in certain other jurisdictions, such as Colombia, the Philippines and Guatemala, also enjoy corporate tax holidays or concessional tax rates. These tax concessions will expire over the next few years, possibly increasing our overall tax rate. As a result of the foregoing, our overall tax rate may increase over the next few years and such increase may be material and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the transfer pricing arrangements we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate, our tax liability may increase. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, marketing, sales and delivery functions. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in other countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arms-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be substantially on arms-length terms. If, however, a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and determines that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, or that other income of our affiliates should be taxed in that jurisdiction, we may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flows. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients in the United States. If events or conditions occur which adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We currently derive, and are likely to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from clients located in the United States. A number of factors could adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The United States economy is still in a period of economic uncertainty. Any deterioration in economic activity in the United States could adversely affect demand for our services, thus reducing our revenue. We could also be affected by decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Indian rupee, in which we incur the majority of our costs, or other currencies in which we incur costs. We may also be adversely affected by the enactment of laws in the United States that impose restrictions on, or taxation or other financial penalties with respect to, offshore outsourcing. 20 Table of Contents We may face difficulties in providing end-to-end business solutions or delivering complex and large projects for our clients that could cause clients to discontinue their work with us, which in turn could harm our business. We continue to expand the nature and scope of our engagements. Our ability to effectively offer a wide breadth of end-to-end business solutions depends on our ability to attract existing or new clients to new service offerings, and the market for end-to-end solutions is highly competitive. We cannot be certain that our new service offerings will effectively meet client needs or that we will be able to attract existing and new clients to these service offerings. The increased breadth of our service offerings may result in larger and more complex projects with our clients. This will require us to establish closer relationships with our clients and a thorough understanding of their operations. Our ability to establish such relationships will depend on a number of factors, including the proficiency of our employees and management. Our failure to deliver services that meet the requirements specified by our clients could result in termination of client contracts, and we could be liable to our clients for significant penalties or damages. Larger projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays may result from factors that have little or nothing to do with the quality of our services, such as the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements and inaccuracies in such resource planning and allocation may have a negative impact on our profitability. We may fail to attract and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations. Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled employees and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. Historically, high employee attrition has been common in our industry. See Item 1BusinessOur People. In 2014, our attrition rate for all employees who were employed for a day or more was approximately 25%. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce our level of attrition or even maintain our attrition rate at the 2014 level. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. Competition for qualified employees, particularly in India and China, remains high and we expect such competition to continue. We compete for employees not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies. In many locations in which we operate, there is a limited pool of employees who have the skills and training needed to do our work. If our business continues to grow, the number of people we will need to hire will increase. We will also need to increase our hiring if we are not able to maintain our attrition rate through innovative recruiting and retention policies. Significant competition for employees could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our clients, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs. Wage increases in the countries in which we have operations may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margin. Salaries and related benefits of our employees are our most significant costs. Most of our employees are based in India and other countries in which wage levels have historically been significantly lower than wage levels in the United States and Western Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage levels for comparably skilled employees in most of the countries in which we operate have increased and further increases are expected at a faster rate than in the United States and Western Europe because of, among other reasons, faster economic growth, increased competition for skilled employees and increased demand for business process services. We will lose this competitive advantage to the extent that we are not able to control or share wage increases with our clients. Sharing wage increases may cause our clients to be less willing to utilize our services. In addition, wage increases may reduce our margins. We will attempt to control such costs by our efforts to add capacity in locations where we consider wage levels of skilled personnel to be satisfactory, but we may not be successful in doing so. We may need to increase our wage levels 21 Table of Contents significantly and rapidly in order to attract the quantity and quality of employees that are necessary for us to remain competitive, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have also increased, and expect to further increase, the number of employees we have in the United States from the levels than we have had historically, and this could have a negative effect on our profit margin. Currency exchange rate fluctuations in various currencies in which we do business, especially the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remaining amounts largely in euros, pounds sterling, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen and the Indian rupee. Most of our expenses are incurred and paid in Indian rupees, with the remaining amounts largely in U.S. dollars, Chinese renminbi, Romanian lei, euros, pounds sterling, Philippine pesos, Japanese yen, Polish zloty, Mexican pesos, Guatemalan quetzals, the South African rand and Hungarian forints. As we expand our operations to new countries, we will incur expenses in other currencies. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates between the Indian rupee and other currencies in which we incur costs or receive revenues, on the one hand, and the U.S. dollar, on the other hand, have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. See