Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking terms such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, could, may, shall, will, would and variations of such words and similar expressions, or the negative of such words or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, which in some cases may be based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined under Item 1ARisk Factors in this Annual Report. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to: our ability to retain existing clients and contracts; our ability to win new clients and engagements; the expected value of the statements of work under our master service agreements; our beliefs about future trends in our market; political, economic or business conditions in countries where we have operations or where our clients operate, including the uncertainty related to the pending withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, commonly known as Brexit, and heightened economic and political uncertainty within and among other European Union member states; expected spending on business process outsourcing and information technology services by clients; foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to convert bookings to revenue; our rate of employee attrition; our effective tax rate; and competition in our industry. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results include, among others: our ability to develop and successfully execute our business strategies; our ability to grow our business and effectively manage growth and international operations while maintaining effective internal controls; our dependence on favorable policies and tax laws that may be changed or amended in a manner adverse to us or be unavailable to us in the future, including as a result of recently adopted tax legislation in the United States, and our ability to effectively execute our tax planning strategies; our ability to comply with data protection laws and regulations and to maintain the security and confidentiality of personal and other sensitive data of our clients, employees or others; our dependence on revenues derived from clients in the United States and Europe and clients that operate in certain industries, such as the financial services industry; our ability to successfully consummate or integrate strategic acquisitions; our ability to maintain pricing and asset utilization rates; 2 our ability to hire and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations; increases in wages in locations in which we have operations; our relative dependence on the General Electric Company (GE) and our ability to maintain our relationships with divested GE businesses; financing terms, including, but not limited to, changes in the London Interbank Offered rate, or LIBOR, including the pending global phase-out of LIBOR, and changes to our credit ratings; our ability to meet our corporate funding needs, pay dividends and service debt, including our ability to comply with the restrictions that apply to our indebtedness that may limit our business activities and investment opportunities; restrictions on visas for our employees traveling to North America and Europe; fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the currencies in which we transact business, primarily the U.S. dollar, Australian dollar, Chinese renminbi, Euro, Indian rupee, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Philippine peso, Polish zloty, Romanian leu and U.K. pound sterling; our ability to retain senior management; the selling cycle for our client relationships; our ability to attract and retain clients and our ability to develop and maintain client relationships on attractive terms; legislation in the United States or elsewhere that adversely affects the performance of business process outsourcing and information technology services offshore; increasing competition in our industry; telecommunications or technology disruptions or breaches, or natural or other disasters; our ability to protect our intellectual property and the intellectual property of others; deterioration in the global economic environment and its impact on our clients, including the bankruptcy of our clients; regulatory, legislative and judicial developments, including the withdrawal of governmental fiscal incentives; the international nature of our business; technological innovation; our ability to derive revenues from new service offerings; and unionization of any of our employees. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable at the time they are made, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties, and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Forms 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use the terms Genpact, Company, we and us to refer to Genpact Limited and its subsidiaries. Our registered office is located at Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 12, Bermuda. 3 PART I Item 1. Business About Genpact Genpact is a global professional services firm that makes business transformation real. We drive digital-led innovation and run digitally-enabled intelligent operations for our clients, guided by our experience running thousands of processes for hundreds of Fortune Global 500 clients. We have more than 87,000 employees serving clients in key industry verticals from more than 25 countries . Our 2018 total net revenues were $3.0 billion. In 2018, we continued to implement a strategy focused on differentiated, domain-led solutions, growing our expertise in strategic industries and geographic markets, and expanding our client relationships. We made acquisitions in 2018 to increase our domain expertise in our areas of focus, and we invested in our people and our solutions in particular our digital capabilities in an effort to drive more agile business models for our clients and help them to stay ahead of the disruptive challenges they are facing. Our Approach We use our Smart Enterprise Processes SM ( SEP ) a patented and highly granular approach to dramatically improving the performance of business processes to help our clients make their business processes more efficient and effective. SEPs, and their more recent evolution, Digital SEPs , combine Lean Six Sigma methodologies which reduce waste and inefficiency and improve process quality with design-thinking principles and our deep expertise in how businesses run. Our SEPs test the effectiveness of client processes using best-in-class benchmarks we have developed by mapping and analyzing hundreds of millions of client transactions across thousands of end-to-end business processes. In this way, we identify opportunities for improving client processes and technologies, and we apply our deep process knowledge and process-centric technology to transform them. Our Digital SEPs build on our SEP framework by adding domain-specific digital products and solutions that draw on our expertise in mobility, cloud, workflow, advanced visualization, robotics, and machine learning. Genpact Cora integrates our proprietary automation, analytics, and AI technologies into a unified platform. It draws insights from our deep domain and operations expertise in our target industries and service lines, and is focused on improving the customer experience. Our teams use Genpact Cora to embed the latest technologies along with our deep domain knowledge into our solutions to accelerate our clients digital transformations. Domain-led digital transformation Our clients are operate in increasingly complex business environments, driven by an explosion in technology opportunities, new and disruptive competitors, and shifting market dynamics. Companies need to reimagine their business models and adapt to rapid change. These organizations seek partners that can both improve productivity and manage cost while creating competitive advantages and realizing top-line benefits, such as expanded market share, seamless customer experiences, increased revenue, and minimized risk and loss. We believe our approach to business transformation, enabled through combining our deep industry and process expertise with our advanced skills in digital, differentiates us from our competitors. Our Lean Digital SM Innovation Centers help clients learn about new digital solutions that can address their business needs. We use these innovation centers to bring together clients, partners, and other industry leaders for brainstorming and hackathon-style workshops. As part of this process, we apply design thinking to make the most of human capabilities, domain expertise, and innovative technology, 4 and create solutions that quickly and aptly meet client objectives. The results can include quick-turnaround prototypes that clients can install and test in their own environments. We enable domain-led digital transformation for our clients primarily in two ways: designing and running Intelligent Operations SM and providing digital-led Transformation Services . Intelligent Operations Our Intelligent Operations embed digital and advanced analytics into our business process outsourcing solutions to automate and transform our clients operations. This allows enterprises to be more flexible and helps them focus on what they need to do to better compete in their industries. Transformation Services Our transformation services include our digital products, services and solutions, consulting services, and analytics offerings. Digital: Through our portfolio of digital products, we help our clients harness the power of digital. Our Genpact Cora platform helps us design and implement our digital solutions, making use of advanced technologies, including robotic process automation, AI and data engineering. Consulting: Our consulting practice, which includes digital experts, helps clients: Get a complete picture of how they run their operations across their organization in our areas of focus; Measure how their operating processes compare to industry best practices; Create custom roadmaps to help them meet their business goals; and Train client teams to execute on our recommendations. Analytics: We use advanced analytics and data engineering to help our clients make timely, informed and fact-based decisions. We offer analytics services and solutions in areas where we have domain expertise, both on a standalone basis and embedded in our other service offerings. We use quantitative and qualitative methods to analyze a clients data to help them assess new business opportunities, manage risk, and make better business decisions. Our Lean Digital Innovation Centers in Bangalore and Delhi, India, Boston and Palo Alto, United States, and Netyana, Israel bring together our clients, partners, and other industry experts to design and develop new ideas. Our service offerings For clients across our chosen industry verticals, we offer the following professional services: Finance and accounting services; Core industry operations specific to our chosen industry verticals; Sourcing, procurement and supply chain services; and IT services. Finance and accounting We believe we are one of the worlds premier providers of financial and accounting services. Our services in this area include: Accounts payable: document management, invoice processing, approval and resolution management, and travel and expense processing; Invoice-to-cash: customer master data management, credit and contract management, fulfillment, billing, collections, and dispute management services; Record to report: accounting, treasury, tax services, product cost accounting, and closing and reporting, including SEC and regulatory reporting; Enterprise performance management: budgeting, forecasting, and business performance reporting; and 5 Enterprise risk and compliance: operational risk and controls across a wide range of regulatory environments. Core industry operations We help our clients design, transform and run core enterprise operations specific to their industries. On the foundation of domain expertise embedded in our SEP frameworks, we use our Lean Digital approach to leverage digital technologies and specialized analytics to power Intelligent Operations. We support our clients core operations in all of our chosen industry verticals. Sourcing, procurement and supply chain services We offer direct and indirect strategic sourcing, category management, spend analytics, procurement operations, master data management, and other procurement and supply chain advisory services. We use our expertise in this area to help clients transform and run sourcing strategies across expense categories, drive process compliance and realize significant cost reduction in their businesses. Using our Lean Digital approach and best-in-class SEPs, we help clients improve productivity and their customers experiences by: Improving sourcing and procurement processes; Optimizing inventory management and the overall supply chain; Automating processes, such as order management; Integrating separate technology systems and analyzing disparate data sources; and Providing a single dashboard to see metrics in one place. IT services Our IT services include end-user computing support, infrastructure management, application production support, and database management. We provide support in more than 25 languages. Monitoring and management: We help our clients monitor and manage their data centers, servers, storage, emails, networks, databases, applications, and end-user devices. Infrastructure management: We offer cloud infrastructure services, IT service integration and management and cybersecurity services. Business intelligence and data warehousing : We leverage our deep domain and process expertise to help clients with business intelligence and big data, enterprise resource planning, quality assurance, technology integration, and business intelligence reporting. We also have significant expertise in Hyperion, SAS and Cognos, and platform support for ERP systems such as Oracle, SAP, and Microsoft. Industries we serve We work with clients across our chosen industry verticals, which are areas in which we believe we have deep industry acumen. In addition to our professional services, such as finance and accounting, that are available to clients across our verticals, we offer core industry-specific services to clients in select verticals. Banking and financial services Our clients in this vertical include retail, investment and commercial banks, mortgage lenders, equipment and lease financing providers and other financial services companies. Our services for these clients include application processing, collections and customer services, equipment and auto loan servicing, mortgage origination and servicing, risk management and compliance services, reporting and monitoring services, and wealth management operations support. 6 Capital markets Our clients in this vertical include investment banks, wealth and asset management firms, broker/dealers, exchanges, clearing and settlement organizations and other financial enterprises. Our services for these clients include end-to-end information technology services, application development and maintenance, managed services, risk management and compliance services, and consulting. Insurance Our services for clients in the insurance industry such as property and casualty insurers, life and annuities insurers, reinsurance providers and insurance brokerage firms include underwriting, claims management, risk and catastrophe modelling, and customer segmentation and loyalty. Consumer goods and retail Our clients in this vertical include companies in the food and beverage, household goods, apparel, personal goods and consumer health industries as well as grocery chains and other retailers. The services we provide to these clients include supply chain management, order management, trade promotion optimization, and supplier risk management. Life sciences and healthcare Our clients in this vertical include pharmaceutical, medical technology and biotechnology companies as well as healthcare payers (health insurers) and providers and pharmacy benefit managers. Our services for life sciences clients include regulatory affairs services, such as lifecycle management, regulatory operations, Chemistry Manufacturing Controls compliance, safety and pharmacovigilance, and regulatory information management. Our services for healthcare clients include managing the end-to-end lifecycle of a claim, from claims processing and adjudication to claims recovery and payment integrity. Infrastructure, manufacturing and services Our clients in this vertical include companies in the automotive, chemicals, energy, hospitality, manufacturing, media and entertainment, and transportation and logistics sectors. Our solutions for these clients include industry-specific solutions for the Internet of Things (IIoT), aftermarket services support, industrial asset optimization, engineering services covering the complete product lifecycle from concept to release and sustaining engineering, supply chain management, direct procurement and logistics services. High Tech Our clients in this vertical include companies in the electronics, software and technology sectors. The services we provide to these clients include industry-specific solutions for the IIoT, order and supply chain management, and risk management. Our clients We serve more than 700 clients across many industries and geographies. Our clients include some of the biggest brands in the world, many of which are leaders in their industries. GE GE has been our largest client since our inception and accounted for $268.2 million, or approximately 8.9%, of our total net revenues in 2018. We serve most of GEs business units, including GE Aviation, Baker Hughes GE, GE Corporate, GE Current, GE Digital, GE Healthcare, GE Industrial Finance, GE Power, GE Renewables and GE Transportation. We provide broad services to GE across all of our service offerings. Commitments with respect to services we may perform for GE are set forth in statements of work, or SOWs, purchase orders and business services agreements, or BSAs, that we may enter into with individual GE business units from 7 time to time. These SOWs, purchase orders and BSAs cover in more detail the type of work to be performed and the associated amounts to be billed. In general, each GE business unit decides whether to enter into a SOW, purchase order or BSA with us and on what terms it will do so. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, our revenues from GE come from many different businesses, each with its own leader who makes decisions about our services. Global clients We serve about one fourth of the Fortune Global 500, including clients such as Aon, Bayer, Boeing, Citigroup, Hyatt, McKesson, PayPal, Walgreens Boots Alliance and Walmart. Our net revenues from Global Clients, which include all clients other than GE, have grown from $1.6 billion in 2013 to $2.7 billion in 2018, representing a compound annual growth rate of 11%. Our net revenues from Global Clients as a percentage of total net revenues increased from approximately 77% in 2013 to approximately 91% in 2018. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsClassification of Certain Net Revenues. Our contracts with clients often take the form of a master services agreement, or MSA, which is a framework agreement that we then supplement with SOWs, and we also frequently enter into software-as-a-service and consulting agreements with our clients depending on the scope of the services to be performed. Our MSAs specify the general terms that apply to the services we will provide. For more about our contracting frameworks, see Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewNet Revenues. Our people Our people are critical to the success of our business. We have created, and constantly reinforce, a culture that emphasizes collaboration, innovation, process improvement, and dedication to our clients. We seek to attract, retain and develop employees who exhibit our core values curiosity, incisiveness and courage and who uphold our dedication to integrity consistent with our Code of Ethical Business Conduct. We are committed to the career development of our employees, and our increasingly mobile, agile and inclusive learning infrastructure supports focused and meaningful technical, functional, industry-specific, managerial, and leadership skill development for our employees based on their roles and levels. Our performance management approach supports our career philosophy by encouraging employees to reflect on their performance, set challenging goals, identify their development needs and find relevant learning and training opportunities. As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately 87,000 employees working in more than 25 countries. Partnerships and alliances We have entered into and continue to pursue alliances with companies whose solutions complement ours. Together, we work to enhance our existing solutions or create new solutions to meet market needs. Our alliances generally fall into one of the following categories: Joint ventures Strategic, go-to-market alliances Deal-specific relationships to jointly solve a specific issue for a client Digital and other white label embedded technology-based relationships We have three primary types of partners: consulting partners, digital partners, and solution partners. Our digital and solution partnerships aim to nurture relationships with established and emerging players and start-ups. These potential partners specialize in leading-edge disruptive digital technologies and solutions that we can embed into our offerings or proactively bring to market. 8 Corporate social responsibility Genpacts approach to corporate social responsibility focuses on three pillars that reflect our strengths, core expertise, and causes that our employees care about: Education and employability Gender diversity and inclusion Sustainability We foster a culture of giving and volunteering through several global platforms, projects, and social initiatives. Our more than 31,000 employee volunteers have, among other things, helped underprivileged children get better access to education, assisted unemployed women in developing job skills and finding jobs, and worked on projects to help improve infrastructure and education in the communities in which we work and live. Additionally, more than 10,000 of our employees participate in our payroll-based charitable donation programs. Sales and marketing We market our services to both existing and potential clients through our business development team and our global relationship managers. Members of this team are based around the globe, including in the United States, Europe, Australia and Asia, and dedicate their time to expanding the services we provide to our existing clients as well as acquiring new clients. We have designated client partners and global relationship managers for each of our strategic relationships. The relationship manager is supported by digital and analytics, process improvement, quality, transition, finance, human resources, information technology and industry/product subject matter expert teams to ensure the best possible solution is provided to our clients. We constantly measure our client satisfaction levels to ensure that we maintain high service levels for each client, using measures such as the Net Promoter Score. Our sales force is primarily organized by industry vertical teams that are supported by horizontal service offerings. The length of our selling cycle varies depending on the type of engagement. The sales cycle for project work is typically much shorter than the sales cycle for a large business process engagement. Our efforts may begin in response to our lead generation program, a perceived opportunity, a reference by an existing client, a request for proposal or otherwise. In addition to our business development personnel, the sales effort involves people from the relevant service areas, people familiar with that prospective clients industry and business leaders. We may expend substantial time and resources in securing new business. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewNet Revenues. As our relationship with a client grows, the time required to win an engagement for additional services often gradually declines. In addition, as we become more knowledgeable about a clients business and processes, our ability to identify opportunities to create value for the client typically increases. For example, productivity benefits and greater business impact can often be achieved by applying our Lean Digital SM approach and SEP SM methodology, by focusing on processes that are upstream or downstream from the processes we initially handle, or by applying our analytical, consulting and digital capabilities to transform processes. We also strive to foster relationships between our senior leadership team and our clients senior management. These C-level relationships ensure that both parties are focused on establishing priorities, aligning objectives and driving client value from the top down. High-level executive relationships have been particularly constructive as a means of increasing business from our existing clients. It also provides us with a forum for addressing client concerns. Our governance methodology is designed to ensure that we are well connected at all levels of our clients organizations (executive, management and operations). Significant new business opportunities are reviewed by business and sales leaders from the applicable industry vertical, operations personnel, and members of our finance department. If they 9 determine that the new business is aligned with our strategic objectives and a good use of our resources, then our business development team is authorized to pursue the opportunity. Global delivery We serve our clients using our global network of 88 delivery centers in 17 countries. We have delivery centers in Australia, Brazil, China, Guatemala, India, Israel, Japan, Latvia, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. We also have many employees who work with our clients either onsite or virtually, which offers flexibility for both clients and employees. With this global network, we are able to manage complex processes around the world. We use different locations for different types of services depending on client needs and the mix of skills and cost of employees at each location. Our presence around the world gives us: multilingual capabilities; access to a larger talent pool; and near-shoring capabilities to take advantage of time zones. We also regularly look for new places to open delivery centers and offices, both in new countries or new cities in countries where we already have a presence. Before we choose a new location, we consider several factors, such as the talent pool, infrastructure, government support, operating costs, and client demand. Service delivery model We seek to be a seamless extension of our clients operations. To that end, we developed the Genpact Virtual Captive SM service delivery model, in which we create a virtual extension of our clients teams and environments. Our clients get dedicated employees and management, as well as dedicated infrastructure at our delivery centers. We also train our teams in our clients cultures, processes, and business environments. Intellectual Property The solutions we offer our clients often include a range of proprietary methodologies, software, and reusable knowledge capital. We also develop intellectual property in the course of our business and our agreements with our clients regulate the ownership of such intellectual property. We seek to protect our intellectual property through various means, including by agreement and applications for patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights and domain names. Some of our intellectual property rights are trade secrets and relate to proprietary business process enhancements. We often use third-party and client software platforms and systems to provide our services. Our agreements with our clients normally include a license to use the clients proprietary systems to provide our services. Clients authorize us to access and use third party software licenses held by the client so that we may provide our services. It is our practice to enter into agreements with our employees and independent contractors that: ensure that all new intellectual property developed by our employees or independent contractors in the course of their employment or engagement is assigned to us; provide for employees and independent contractors cooperation in intellectual property protection matters even if they no longer work for us; and include a confidentiality undertaking by our employees and independent contractors. 10 Competition We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving global market. We have a number of competitors offering services that are the same as or similar to ours. Our competitors include: large multinational service providers and accounting firms that provide consulting and other professional services; companies that are primarily business process service providers operating from low-cost countries, most commonly India; companies that are primarily information technology service providers with some business process service capabilities; smaller, niche service providers that provide services in a specific geographic market, industry or service area, including digital; and in-house departments of companies that use their own resources rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services and solutions we provide. Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our industry include: skills and capabilities; technical and industry expertise; innovative service and product offerings, including digital offerings; ability to add value, including through continuous process improvement; reputation and client references; contractual terms, including competitive pricing; scope of services; quality of services and solutions; ability to sustain long-term client relationships; and global reach and scale. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis. Regulation We are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions around the world as a result of the complexity of our operations and services, particularly in the countries where we have operations and where we deliver services. We are also subject to regulation by regional bodies such as the European Union, or EU. In addition, the terms of our service contracts typically require that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. In some of our service contracts, we are contractually required to comply even if such laws and regulations apply to our clients, but not to us, and sometimes our clients require us to take specific steps intended to make it easier for them to comply with applicable requirements. In some of our service contracts, our clients undertake the responsibility to inform us about laws and regulations that may apply to us in jurisdictions in which they are located. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we may be restricted in our ability to provide services, and may also be the subject of civil or criminal actions involving penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our clients generally have the right to terminate our contracts for cause in the event of regulatory failures, subject to notice periods. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessOur global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes 11 conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business. If we fail to comply with contractual commitments to facilitate our clients compliance, we may be liable for contractual damages, and clients in regulated industries may be less willing to use our services. We are affected by laws and regulations in the United States, the United Kingdom , the EU and its member states, and other countries in which we do business that are intended to limit the impact of outsourcing on employees in those jurisdictions, and occasional changes to laws and regulations in such jurisdictions may impose changes that further restrict or discourage offshore outsourcing or otherwise harm our business. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessFuture legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. Our collection, use, disclosure and retention of personal health-related and other information is subject to an array of privacy, data security, and data breach notification laws and regulations that change frequently, are inconsistent across the jurisdictions in which we do business, and impose significant compliance costs. In the United States, personal information is subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations relating to privacy, data security, and breach notification, including, for example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Federal Trade Commission Act , Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act , Communications Act, and Electronic Communications Privacy Act. As of 2018, all fifty U.S. states and the District of Columbia have implemented separate data security and breach notification laws with which we must comply; in addition, some states have strengthened their existing laws. Some courts have become more willing to allow individuals to pursue claims in data breach cases, indicating that it may become easier for consumers to sue companies for data breaches. Californias new privacy law, which is expected to take effect in 2020, will impose additional obligations related to the collection and usage of California residents data. Related laws and regulations govern our direct marketing activities and our use of personal information for direct marketing, including the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act , Telemarketing Sales Rule, Telephone Consumer Protection Act and rules promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission, and CAN-SPAM Act. In 2018, the Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data, or CLOUD, Act established new required processes and procedures for handling U.S. law enforcement requests for data that we may store outside of the U.S. In the EU, a new, comprehensive General Data Protection Regulation, or the GDPR, went into effect in May 2018. The GDPR supersedes EU member states national protection laws and imposes privacy and data security compliance obligations and increased penalties for noncompliance. In particular, the GDPR has introduced numerous privacy-related changes for companies operating in the EU, including greater control for data subjects, increased data portability for EU consumers, data breach notification requirements and increased fines. GDPR enforcement has begun, and companies have faced fines for violations of certain provisions. Fines can reach as high as 4% of a companys annual total revenue, potentially including the revenue of a companys international affiliates. Additionally, foreign governments outside of the EU are also taking steps to fortify their data privacy laws and regulations. For example, some countries in Latin America and Asia are considering GDPR-like data protection laws, and Canada implemented a new mandatory breach reporting and recordkeeping regime in November 2018. Evolving laws and regulations in India protecting the use of personal information could also impact our engagements with clients, vendors and employees in India. As privacy laws and regulations around the world continue to evolve, these changes could adversely affect our business operations, websites and mobile applications that are accessed by residents in the applicable countries. In the United States, we are either directly subject to, or contractually required to comply or facilitate our clients compliance with, laws and regulations arising out of our work for clients operating there, especially in the area of banking, financial services and insurance, such as the Financial Modernization Act (sometimes referred to as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Service Company Act, the Home Owners Loan Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and regulation by U.S. agencies such as the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. 12 Because of our debt collections work in the United States, we are also regulated by laws such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and related regulations. We are currently licensed to engage in debt collection activities in all jurisdictions in the United States where licensing is required. U.S. banking and debt collection laws and their implementing regulations are occasionally amended, and these changes may impose new obligations on us or may change existing obligations. Because of our insurance processing activities in the United States, we are currently licensed as a third-party administrator in 41 states and are regulated by the department of insurance in each such state. In two other states, we qualify for regulatory exemption from licensing based on the insurance processing activities we provide. In the United States, we are subject to laws and regulations governing foreign trade, such as export control, customs and sanctions regulations maintained by government bodies such as the Commerce Departments Bureau of Industry and Security, the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control, and the Homeland Security Departments Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. Several of our service delivery centers, primarily located in India, China, the Philippines and Guatemala, benefit from tax incentives or concessional rates provided by local laws and regulations. The Indian Special Economic Zones Act of 2005, or SEZ legislation, introduced a tax holiday in certain situations for operations established in designated special economic zones, or SEZs. The SEZ tax benefits are available only for new business operations that are conducted at qualifying SEZ locations. We cannot predict what percentage of our operations or income in India or other jurisdictions in future years will be eligible for a tax holiday. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewIncome Taxes. In addition to the tax holidays described above, certain benefits are also available to us under certain Indian state laws. These benefits include rebates and waivers in relation to payments for the transfer or registration of property (including for the purchase or lease of premises), waivers of conversion fees for land, exemption from state pollution control requirements, entry tax exemptions, labor law exemptions and commercial usage of electricity. Our hedging activities and currency transfer are restricted by regulations in certain countries, including India, Romania and China. Certain Bermuda Law Considerations As a Bermuda company, we are also subject to regulation in Bermuda. Among other things, we must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda as amended, or the Companies Act, regulating the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions from contributed surplus. We are classified as a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Pursuant to our non-resident status, we may engage in transactions in currencies other than Bermuda dollars. There are no restrictions on our ability to transfer funds in and out of Bermuda or to pay dividends to United States residents that are holders of our common shares. Under Bermuda law, exempted companies are companies formed for the purpose of conducting business outside Bermuda. As an exempted company, we may not, without a license granted by the Minister of Finance, participate in certain business transactions, including transactions involving Bermuda landholding rights and the carrying on of business of any kind, for which we are not licensed in Bermuda. Organizational structure We conduct our business primarily through direct and indirect subsidiaries of our parent company, Genpact Limited, which is a Bermuda exempted limited company. Our business was initially conducted through various entities and divisions of GE. We began operating as an independent company in 2004, when GE spun off our operations and sold indirect interests in us to our initial investors. In 2007, we completed our initial public offering. In 2012, affiliates 13 of Bain Capital Investors, LLC, or Bain Capital, acquired the majority of the remaining interests held by our initial investors. Following an offering in February 2019, Bain Capital (through its affiliates) owned approximately 17% of our outstanding equity as of February 15, 2019. Available Information We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec .gov. We make available free of charge on our website, www.genpact .com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Executive Officers The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers as of February 15, 2019: Name Age Position(s) N.V. Tyagarajan 57 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Edward Fitzpatrick 52 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Cogny 52 Senior Vice President, Infrastructure, Manufacturing & Services and High Tech Balkrishan Kalra 49 Senior Vice President, Consumer Goods, Retail, Life Sciences and Healthcare Ahmed Mazhari 49 Senior Vice President, Chief Growth Officer Piyush Mehta 50 Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer Darren Saumur 51 Senior Vice President, Global Operating Officer Heather White 46 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary N.V. Tyagarajan has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since June 2011. From February 2009 to June 2011, he was our Chief Operating Officer. From February 2005 to February 2009, he was our Executive Vice President and Head of Sales, Marketing and Business Development. From October 2002 to January 2005, he was Senior Vice President, Quality and Global Operations, for GEs Commercial Equipment Finance division. Between 1999 and 2002, he served as our Chief Executive Officer. Edward Fitzpatrick has served as our Chief Financial Officer since July 2014. Prior to joining Genpact, he spent 13 years at Motorola Solutions Inc. and its predecessor company Motorola Inc., most recently serving as executive vice president and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to Motorola, he worked at General Instrument Corporation, which was acquired by Motorola Inc., and Price Waterhouse, LLP. Mr. Fitzpatrick also currently serves as a director of CBOE, Inc. Patrick Cogny has served as our Senior Vice President of Infrastructure, Manufacturing and Services since September 2011 and has also been responsible for our High Tech business since January 2017. From 2005 to August 2011, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Genpact Europe. Prior to this, he spent 15 years working for GE in the Healthcare business and in the GE Europe corporate headquarters, in France, the United States and Belgium. Balkrishan Kalra has served as our Senior Vice President, Consumer Goods, Retail and Life Sciences since 2008 and has also been responsible for our Healthcare business since 2016. Prior to this, he held various roles at Genpact since joining us in 1999. 14 Ahmed Mazhari has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Growth Officer since September 2016. In this role, he is currently responsible for our global sales and marketing functions, partnerships and alliances, transitions, digital solutioning and robotic process automation. From 2013 to 2016, he served as our Head of Global Sales and Client Relationships. Prior to this, he held various roles at Genpact, including European business leader and sales leader for Europe. Mr. Mazhari joined us in 1997. Piyush Mehta has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since March 2005. He has worked for us since 2001, initially as Vice President of Human Resources. Darren Saumur became our Senior Vice President, Global Operating Officer in April 2018. Prior to joining Genpact, he was an executive vice president responsible for the services business at Infor from 2014 to 2018. From 2005 to 2014, he worked at SAP where he ran SAPs global consulting businesses. Mr. Saumur began his career at Ernst & Young, where he worked from 1991 to 2005. Heather White became our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in April 2018. Ms. White has been with Genpact since 2005, and served most recently as our Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel. Prior to joining Genpact, she was a corporate attorney in the New York and London offices of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP. 15 Item 1A. R isk Factors Risks Related to our Business Our success largely depends on our ability to achieve our business strategies, and our results of operations and financial condition may suffer if we are unable to continually develop and successfully execute our strategies. Our future growth, profitability and cash flows largely depend upon our ability to continually develop and successfully execute our business strategies. While we have confidence that our strategic plans reflect opportunities that are appropriate and achievable, the execution of our strategy may not result in long-term growth in revenue or profitability due to a number of factors, including incorrect assumptions, global or local economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we operate, sub-optimal resource allocation or any of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. In pursuit of our growth strategy, we may also invest significant time and resources into new product or service offerings, and these offerings may fail to yield sufficient return to cover our investments in them. The failure to continually develop and execute optimally on our business strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients businesses and levels of business activity. Global macroeconomic conditions affect our clients businesses and the markets they serve. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions in our significant markets have in the past undermined and could in the future undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other markets, which are increasingly interdependent, and cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new initiatives, or may result in clients reducing, delaying or eliminating spending under existing contracts with us, which would negatively affect our business. Growth in the markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate or contract, in each case, for an extended period of time. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate and the industries we serve have affected and may in the future affect demand for our services. A material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our clients in North America and Europe. Weak demand in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, major political events, including the United Kingdoms planned withdrawal from the European Union scheduled to occur on March 29, 2019 (Brexit), create uncertainty for businesses that operate in these markets. As the United Kingdom and EU continue to negotiate the terms of the United Kingdoms withdrawal, there remains uncertainty on topics that are relevant to our operations in the United Kingdom, such as privacy regulations, trade agreements, immigration laws and employment laws. We face uncertainty in our operations as to the impact of Brexit on, among other things, the free movement of our employees between the United Kingdom and EU member states and the movement of data between the United Kingdom and EU member states. Furthermore, a significant portion of our revenues from clients in the United Kingdom is generated in British pounds. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that revenues from clients based in the United Kingdom will be affected by adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Additionally, uncertainty as to the future trade terms between the United Kingdom and the EU could negatively impact our clients who are based or have operations in the United Kingdom or the EU, including clients in the financial services sector, and as a consequence could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are currently examining the various possible impacts Brexit may have on our business and operating model in an effort to develop solutions to address any of the potential outcomes of the negotiations. Any of these factors, or the possibility of a less orderly Brexit that adversely affects global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty and changing demand patterns affect our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand and effectively build our revenue and resource plans. Economic volatility and uncertainty is particularly challenging because it may take some time for the effects and changes in demand patterns resulting from 16 these and other factors to manifest themselves in our business and results of operations. Changing demand patterns from economic volatility and uncertainty could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, including through the adaptation and expansion of our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings, and a significant reduction in such demand or an inability to respond to the evolving technological environment could materially affect our results of operations. Our revenue and profitability depend on the demand for our services and solutions with favorable margins, which could be negatively affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology and offerings to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Examples of areas of significant change include digital- and cloud-related offerings, which are continually evolving as developments such as AI, automation, Internet of Things and as-a-service solutions are commercialized. Technological developments such as these may materially affect the cost and use of technology by our clients and, in the case of as-a-service solutions, could affect the nature of how we generate revenue. Some of these technologies, such as cloud-based services, AI and automation, and others that may emerge, have reduced and replaced some of our historical services and solutions and may continue to do so in the future. This has caused, and may in the future cause, clients to delay spending under existing contracts and engagements and to delay entering into new contracts while they evaluate new technologies. Such delays can negatively impact our results of operations if the pace and level of spending on new technologies is not sufficient to make up any shortfall. Developments in the industries we serve, which may be rapid, also could shift demand to new services and solutions. If, as a result of new technologies or changes in the industries we serve, our clients demand new services and solutions, we may be less competitive in these new areas or need to make significant investment to meet that demand. Our growth strategy focuses on responding to these types of developments by driving innovation that will enable us to expand our business into new growth areas. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and adapt to industry developments, or evolve and expand our business at sufficient speed and scale, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments and successfully drive innovation, our services and solutions, our results of operations, and our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and to execute on our growth strategy could be negatively affected. Companies in the industries we serve sometimes seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for the services and solutions we offer, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work if we are not successful in generating new opportunities from the merger or consolidation. Future legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. In the United States, federal and state measures aimed at limiting or restricting offshore outsourcing have been occasionally proposed and enacted. In addition, public figures in the United States, including the current President, members of his administration and other elected officials, continue to suggest that U.S. businesses be subjected to tax or other adverse consequences for outsourcing, with incentives for returning outsourced operations to the United States , although it is not known what specific measures might be proposed or how they would be implemented and enforced, or whether emerging or enacted tax reform or other near-term Congressional action will affect companies outsourcing practices. There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation or executive action in the United States that would significantly adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition will not be enacted. 17 Legislation enacted in certain European jurisdictions and any future legislation in Europe, Japan or any other country in which we have clients restricting the performance of business process services from an offshore location or imposing burdens on companies that outsource data processing functions could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, evolving EU cloud computing standards and regulations and proposed taxes on outsourced data center activities or new EU and Japanese regulations on international transfers of personal data may limit or restrict our operations, or make them more costly. Moreover, legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and by many EU countries, provides that if a company outsources all or part of its business to a service provider or changes its current service provider, the affected employees of the company or of the previous service provider are entitled to become employees of the new service provider, generally on the same terms and conditions as their original employment. In addition, dismissals of employees who were employed by the company or the previous service provider immediately prior to that outsourcing, if the dismissals resulted solely or principally from the outsourcing, are automatically considered unfair dismissals that entitle such employees to compensation. As a result, in order to avoid unfair dismissal claims we may have to offer, and become liable for, voluntary redundancy payments to the employees of our clients in the United Kingdom and other EU countries who have adopted similar laws who transfer business to us. Additionally, the United Kingdoms decision to leave the EU has introduced uncertainty into trade relations and could result in increased costs, delays, and regulatory complexity in our business involving the United Kingdom. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business. We are subject to, or subject to contractual requirements to comply with or facilitate our clients compliance with, numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters such as anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, taxation, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, wage-and-hour standards, and employment and labor relations. Our clients business operations are also subject to numerous regulations, and our clients may require that we perform our services in compliance with regulations applicable to them or in a manner that will enable them to comply with such regulations. The global nature of our operations increases the difficulty of compliance. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us and/or our employees, prohibitions on doing business, breach of contract damages and harm to our reputation. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws may not be well developed or provide sufficiently clear guidance and may be insufficient to protect our rights. In particular, our collection, use, disclosure, and retention of personal health-related and other information is subject to an array of privacy, data security, and data breach notification laws and regulations that change frequently, are inconsistent across the jurisdictions in which we do business, and impose significant compliance costs. Changes in these laws and regulations and inconsistencies in the standards that apply to our business in different jurisdictions may impose significant compliance costs, reduce the efficiency of our operations, and expose us to enforcement risks. In the EU, a new, comprehensive General Data Protection Regulation, or the GDPR, went into effect in May 2018. It supersedes EU member states national protection laws and imposes privacy and data security compliance obligations and increased penalties for noncompliance. In particular, the GDPR has introduced numerous privacy-related changes for companies operating in the EU, including greater control for data subjects, increased data portability for EU consumers, data breach notification requirements and increased fines. GDPR enforcement has begun, and companies have faced fines for violations of certain provisions. Fines can reach as high as 4% of a companys annual total revenue, potentially including the revenue of a companys international affiliates. Additionally, foreign governments outside of the EU are also taking steps to fortify their data privacy laws and regulations. For example, some countries in Latin America and Asia are considering GDPR-like data protection laws, and Canada implemented a new mandatory breach reporting and recordkeeping regime in November 2018. Evolving laws and regulations in India protecting the use of personal information could also impact our engagements with clients, vendors and employees 18 in India. As privacy laws and regulations around the world continue to evolve, these changes could adversely affect our business operations, websites and mobile applications that are accessed by residents in the applicable countries. In addition, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, common practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Our employees, subcontractors, agents, joint venture partners, the companies we acquire and their employees, subcontractors and agents, and other third parties with which we associate, could take actions that violate policies or procedures designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation. We could be liable to our clients or others for damages, subject to criminal liability, fines or penalties, and our reputation could be damaged, if our information systems are breached or confidential or sensitive client or employee data is compromised. We are often required to collect, process and store proprietary, personally identifying or other sensitive or confidential client data in the operation of our business or in connection with the services we provide under our contracts, including, for example, names, address, social security numbers, personal health information, credit card account numbers, payment history records, and checking and savings account numbers. In addition, we collect and store data regarding our employees and contractors. As a result, we are subject to numerous data protection and privacy laws and regulations designed to protect this information in the countries in which we operate as well as the countries of residence of the persons whose data we process. Data may be accessed or modified improperly as a result of theft, error or malfeasance by our employees, contractors or other third parties, and others may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, clients or other third parties into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data or IT systems or our clients', contractors or other third parties' data or IT systems. If any person, including any of our current or former employees or contractors, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our or our clients established controls with respect to sensitive data or if we do not adapt to changes in data protection legislation, we could be subject to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. In addition, the products, services and software that we provide to our clients may contain or introduce cybersecurity threats or vulnerabilities to our clients information technology networks, intentionally or unintentionally. Our clients may maintain their own proprietary, sensitive, or confidential information that could be compromised in a cybersecurity attack, or their systems may be disabled or disrupted as a result of such an attack. Our clients, regulators, or other third parties may attempt to hold us liable, through contractual indemnification clauses or directly, for any such losses or damages resulting from such an attack. The threat of incursion into our information systems and technology infrastructure has increased and evolved in recent years with the increasing number and sophistication of third parties who have hacked, attacked, disrupted or otherwise invaded information systems of other companies and have misappropriated or disclosed data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently or may be designed to remain dormant until a predetermined event and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. The steps we have taken to protect our data security may be inadequate. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and our reputation could be harmed and we could lose existing or potential customers. Media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our network 19 security, even if nothing has actually been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially affect our business. In addition, we might not be able to prevent others from using our data and proprietary information to compete with us. Existing trade secret, copyright and trademark laws offer only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our data and proprietary information. For example, doing business in certain jurisdictions poses risks, including but not limited to theft of intellectual property and data and potentially different treatment of foreign owned intellectual property rights and data than that owned or developed in such jurisdictions. If we have to resort to legal proceedings to enforce our rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, protracted and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk and be unsuccessful. Our clients, suppliers, subcontractors, and other third parties with whom we do business, including in particular cloud service providers and software vendors, generally face similar cybersecurity threats, and in some cases we must rely on the safeguards adopted by these parties. We may also be liable to our clients or others for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information or system failures. Many of our contracts do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. We may also be subject to civil actions and criminal prosecution by governments or government agencies for breaches relating to such data. Our insurance coverage or indemnification protections for breaches or mismanagement of such data may not be adequate to cover all costs related to data loss, cybersecurity attacks, or disruptions resulting from such events, or they may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claims. The impact of these cybersecurity attacks, data losses, and other security breaches cannot be predicted, but any such attack, loss or breach could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our clients, suppliers, subcontractors, or other third parties. Incidents of this type could require significant management attention and resources, could result in the loss of business, regulatory enforcement and financial liability, and could harm our reputation among our clients and the public, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operation, or liquidity. While we have developed and implemented security measures and internal controls designed to prevent, detect and respond to cyber and other security threats and incidents, such measures cannot ensure security and may not be successful in preventing future security breaches. We are subject to regular incursion attempts from a variety of sources, and we have experienced data security incidents such as inadvertent or unauthorized disclosures of data, including as a result of phishing or malware, and other unauthorized access to or use of our systems or those of third parties. To date such incidents have not had a material impact on our operations or financial results; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. Tax matters may have an adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions, notably in India where we have substantial operations. Our provision for income taxes, actual tax expense and cash tax liability could be adversely affected by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, lower income before taxes generated in countries with lower tax rates; higher income generated in countries with higher tax rates; changes in tax laws and regulations or in applicable income tax treaties; changes in accounting principles or interpretations thereof or in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; the possible disappearance or expiration of certain tax concessions that we have enjoyed in prior years; and adverse outcomes of tax examinations and pending tax-related litigation. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and tax authorities around the world, notably in India where we have substantial operations, and there can be no assurance that negative outcomes from those examinations or any appeals therefrom will not adversely affect our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. For example, the Government of India has appealed a 2011 ruling by the Delhi High Court that Genpact India Private Limited (one of our subsidiaries) cannot be held to be a representative assessee of GE in connection with an assertion that GE 20 has tax liability in India by reason of a 2004 transfer of shares of our predecessor company. We believe that, if the Government of India is successful in its appeal, GE would be obligated to indemnify us for any resulting tax, though there can be no assurance as to the outcome of this matter. In addition, the Government of India issued assessment orders to us in 2014, 2015 and 2016 seeking to assess tax on certain transactions that occurred in 2009, 2010 and 2013. We do not believe that the transactions should be subject to tax in India under applicable law, including due to the relief provided under the Mauritius-India treaty, and have accordingly filed appeals. Our appeal in respect of tax year 2010 has been resolved in our favor. We have received demands for potential tax claims resulting from assessments related to tax years 2009 and 2013 in an aggregate amount of $158 million, including interest. To date, we have paid a total of $23 million toward these demands to the Indian tax authority under protest, and may be required to pay the remainder of the demands pending resolution of the matter. There is no assurance that we will prevail in this matter or similar transactions, including where we have relied on the Mauritius-India treaty, and a final determination of tax in the amounts claimed could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. More generally, the Indian tax authorities may claim that Indian tax is owed with respect to certain of our transactions, such as our acquisitions (including our subsidiaries organized under Indian law or owning assets located in India), internal reorganizations and the sale of our shares in public offerings or otherwise by our existing significant shareholders, in which indirect transfers of Indian subsidiaries or assets are involved. Those authorities may seek to impose tax on us directly or as a withholding agent or representative assessee of the seller in these or other transactions. Furthermore, there is growing pressure in many jurisdictions, including the United States, and from multinational organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the EU to amend existing international tax rules in order to render them more responsive to current global business practices. For example, the OECD has published a package of measures for reform of the international tax rules as a product of its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) initiative, which was endorsed by the G20 finance ministers. Many of the initiatives in the BEPS package require amendments to the domestic tax legislation of various jurisdictions. Separately, the EU is asserting that a number of country-specific favorable tax regimes and rulings in certain member states may violate, or have violated, EU law, and may require rebates of some or all of the associated tax benefits to be paid by benefitted taxpayers in particular cases. In 2016, the EU adopted the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive which requires EU member states to implement measures to prohibit tax avoidance practices beginning January 1, 2019. In addition, in December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was passed by the U.S. Congress and signed into law by President Trump, bringing about far-ranging changes to the existing corporate tax system. This legislation establishes a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of multinational corporations and , among other items and with varying effective dates, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, an additional minimum tax measured in part by base erosion payments involving certain members of affiliated groups, significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, the modification of constructive ownership rules used to determine the status of certain non-U.S. companies as controlled foreign corporations, and changes to the rules governing taxable and tax-free cross-border transfers of intangible property. Many of the provisions in this legislation are unclear or incomplete in their application. While this legislation has not so far had a material overall impact on our effective tax rate or business practices and operations, it is possible that our tax liability may materially increase in the future as a result of this legislation. Other legislative and regulatory proposals may also affect our tax position or our business practices and operations, depending on whether and in what form they may ultimately take effect. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessFuture legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. Although we monitor these developments, it is very difficult to assess to what extent recent changes and other proposals, if enacted, may be implemented in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we conduct our business or may impact the way in which we conduct our business or our effective tax rate due to their unpredictability and interdependency. As these and other tax laws and related regulations and practices change, those changes could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. 21 If the transfer pricing arrangements we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate, our tax liability may increase. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, financing, marketing, sales and delivery functions. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in other countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arms-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be substantially on arms-length terms. If, however, a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and determines that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, or that other income of our affiliates should be taxed in that jurisdiction, we may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flows, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. GE accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and any material loss of business from, or change in our relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from GE. In 2016, 2017 and 2018, GE accounted for 13.9%, 9.8% and 8.9% of our revenues, respectively. In the past, GE has divested businesses we serve, including a significant portion of its GE Capital business. We expect that our services for GE will decline in the future if GE pursues further divestitures. We intend to continue to make efforts to procure contracts with respect to GEs divested businesses; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to procure any such contracts or that such contracts would be on favorable terms. GE is not obligated to provide us with any exclusivity or opportunity to work on GE projects and GE is not required to purchase a minimum amount of services from us. In addition, GE has the right to terminate our services in whole or in part for any reason by providing us with a short period of advance notice. Any material loss of business from, or change in relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, our revenues from GE may be more volatile in the future and this volatility could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewNet Revenues for further information regarding our relationship with GE. We expect that our business with GE will continue to come from a variety of GEs businesses and that, in general, GEs decisions to use our services will continue to be made by a number of people within GE. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, we expect that the total level of business we receive will continue to depend on the decisions of the various operating managers of such businesses. Finally, there can be no assurance that GE will not establish its own business unit to provide English-language business process services from low-wage countries or otherwise compete with us. Any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients located in the United States and Europe, as well as on clients that operate in certain industries. If events or conditions occur which adversely affect the economic health of the United States or Europe, demand in the United States or Europe or in certain industries for the type of services we provide, or the rate of growth in the industries in which our clients operate, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In 2018, more than 65% of our revenues were derived from clients based in North America and more than 15% of our revenues were derived from clients based in Europe. Additionally, in 2018, more than 35% of our revenues were derived from clients in the financial services industry, which includes insurance. A number of factors could adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States or Europe, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the United Kingdoms negotiations with the EU over Brexit and ongoing 22 uncertainty within the UK Government and Parliament sustains the possibility of the United Kingdom leaving the EU on March 29, 2019 without a withdrawal agreement and associated transition period in place, which is likely to cause significant market and economic disruption. Brexit has created, and continues to create, political and economic uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU and as to whether any other European countries may similarly seek to exit the EU. We have operations in the United Kingdom and a number of countries in the EU and our global operations serve clients with operations in these regions, and as a result our business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by such uncertainty and by the terms of the United Kingdoms pending withdrawal from the EU. Furthermore, any deterioration in economic activity in the United States or Europe could adversely affect demand for our services, thus reducing our revenue. Increased regulation, changes in existing regulation or increased government intervention in the industries in which our clients operate may adversely affect growth in such industries and therefore have an adverse impact on our revenues. We may face difficulties in providing end-to-end business solutions or delivering complex, large or unique projects for our clients that could cause clients to discontinue their work with us, which in turn could harm our business and our reputation. We continue to expand the nature and scope of our engagements, including by incorporating digital solutions that use social, mobility, big data and cloud-based technologies. Our ability to effectively offer a wide range of business solutions depends on our ability to attract existing or new clients to new service offerings, and the market for our solutions is highly competitive. We cannot be certain that our new service offerings, particularly our digital offerings, will effectively meet client needs or that we will be able to attract clients to these service offerings. The complexity of our new service offerings, our inexperience in developing or implementing them, and significant competition in the markets for these services may affect our ability to market these services successfully. In addition, the breadth of our existing service offerings continues to result in larger and more complex projects with our clients, which have risks associated with their scope and complexities. Our failure to deliver services that meet the requirements specified by our clients could result in termination of client contracts, and we could be liable to our clients for significant penalties or damages or suffer reputational harm. Larger projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays may result from factors that have little or nothing to do with the quality of our services, such as the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements and inaccuracies in such resource planning and allocation may have a negative impact on our profitability. From time to time we also enter into agreements that include unique service level delivery requirements or novel pricing arrangements with which we have no experience and that may be unique in the industry. These projects can include performance targets that become more rigorous over the term of the contracts and service delivery components that are partially subjective by design, and we may be unable achieve such targets or to satisfy our clients expectations in delivering such services. Our failure to deliver such engagements to our clients expectations could result in termination of client contracts, and we could be liable to our clients for penalties or damages or suffer reputational harm. We may also discover that we have not priced such engagements appropriately, which could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. Our partnerships, alliances and relationships with third-party suppliers and contractors and other third parties with whom we do business expose us to a variety of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our partnerships and alliances and our relationships with a variety of third parties, including suppliers, contractors and others, expose us to a variety of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, and we may not be successful in mitigating such risks. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for products and services, as well as our suppliers ability to deliver sufficient quantities and quality of products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet 23 commitments for the delivery of our own services. In addition, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our services, including with respect to any third-party components to our services. Any performance failure on the part of our partners or the third parties with whom we do business could delay our performance of client deliverables, which could deprive us of potential revenue. Additionally, our partners, third-party suppliers and contractors and other third parties with whom we do business may not be able to comply with current good business practices or applicable laws or regulatory requirements. Our failure, or the failure of such third parties, to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. We may have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our partners and third parties with whom we do business dedicate to their arrangements with us. Our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our partners or other third parties desire and ability to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. Further, certain of our suppliers, partners and other contractors may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. In addition, we are a party to a number of license agreements with third parties and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect that future licenses will impose, various obligations and restrictions on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations and restrictions, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we might not be able to market any product or service that is covered by these agreements, which could materially adversely affect our business. Termination of these license agreements or reduction or elimination of our licensed rights may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated licenses with less favorable terms, or cause us to lose rights in important intellectual property or technology. Any of the foregoing may prevent us from working with our partners or third parties with whom we do business and could subject us to losses, affect our ability to bring products and services to market, cause us to fail to satisfy our client obligations and harm our reputation. We may fail to attract and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations. Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled employees and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. Historically, high employee attrition has been common in our industry. See Item 1BusinessOur people. In 2018, our attrition rate for all employees who were employed for a day or more was approximately 28%. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce our level of attrition or even maintain our attrition rate at the 2018 level. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. Competition for qualified employees, particularly in India and China, remains high and we expect such competition to continue. We compete for employees not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies. In many locations in which we operate, there is a limited pool of employees who have the skills and training needed to do our work. If our business continues to grow, the number of people we will need to hire will increase. We will also need to increase our hiring if we are not able to maintain our attrition rate through innovative recruiting and retention policies. Significant competition for employees could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our clients, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs. Wage increases in the countries in which we have operations may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margin. Salaries and related benefits of our employees are our most significant costs. Most of our employees are based in India and other countries in which wage levels have historically been significantly lower than wage levels in the United States and Western Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage levels for comparably skilled employees in most of the countries in which we operate have increased and further increases are expected at a faster rate than in the United States and Western Europe because of, among other reasons, faster economic growth, increased competition for skilled employees and increased demand for business process services. We will 24 lose this competitive advantage to the extent that we are not able to control or share wage increases with our clients. Sharing wage increases may cause our clients to be less willing to utilize our services. In addition, wage increases may reduce our margins. We will attempt to control such costs by our efforts to add capacity in locations where we consider wage levels of skilled personnel to be satisfactory, but we may not be successful in doing so. We may need to increase our wage levels significantly and rapidly in order to attract the quantity and quality of employees that are necessary for us to remain competitive, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a recent judicial decision in India that we are still evaluating could increase the amount we will be required to pay to or for the benefit of our employees in India. Further, if this decision is implemented with retrospective application, the amount of the payments that we are required to make at that time to or for the benefit of our employees could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have also increased, and expect to further increase, the number of employees we have in the United States from the levels than we have had historically, and this could have a negative effect on our profit margin. Currency exchange rate fluctuations in various currencies in which we do business, especially the Indian rupee, the euro and the U.S. dollar, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remaining amounts largely in euros, UK pounds sterling, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen and the Indian rupee. Most of our expenses are incurred and paid in Indian rupees, with the remaining amounts largely in U.S. dollars, Chinese renminbi, Romanian lei, euros, UK pounds sterling, Philippine pesos, Japanese yen, Polish zloty, Mexican pesos, Guatemalan quetzals and the Australian dollar. As we expand our operations to new countries, we will incur expenses in other currencies. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates between the Indian rupee, the euro and other currencies in which we incur costs or receive revenues, on the one hand, and the U.S. dollar, on the other hand, have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. See