Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking terms such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, could, may, shall, will, would and variations of such words and similar expressions, or the negative of such words or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, which in some cases may be based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined under Item 1ARisk Factors in this Annual Report. These forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to: our ability to retain existing clients and contracts; our ability to win new clients and engagements; the expected value of the statements of work under our master service agreements; our beliefs about future trends in our market; political or economic instability in countries where we have operations; worldwide political, economic or business conditions; political, economic or business conditions where our clients operate; expected spending on business process services by clients; foreign currency exchange rates; our rate of employee attrition; our effective tax rate; and competition in our industry. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results include, among others: our ability to grow our business and effectively manage growth and international operations while maintaining effective internal controls; our relative dependence on GE; our dependence on revenues derived from clients in the United States; our ability to hire and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations; our dependence on favorable tax legislation and tax policies that may be amended in a manner adverse to us or be unavailable to us in the future; increases in wages in locations in which we have operations; restrictions on visas for our employees traveling to North America and Europe; 1 Table of Contents our ability to maintain pricing and asset utilization rates; fluctuations in exchange rates between U.S. dollars, euros, U.K. pounds sterling, Chinese renminbi, Hungarian forint, Japanese yen, Indian rupees, Australian dollars, Philippines Peso, Guatemala quetzal, Moroccan dirham (DH), Polish zloty, Romanian leu and South African rand; our ability to retain senior management; the selling cycle for our client relationships; our ability to attract and retain clients and our ability to develop and maintain client relationships based on attractive terms; legislation in the United States or elsewhere that adversely affects the performance of business process services offshore; increasing competition in our industry; telecommunications or technology disruptions or breaches, or natural or other disasters; our ability to protect our intellectual property and the intellectual property of others; further deterioration in the global economic environment and its impact on our clients; regulatory, legislative and judicial developments, including the withdrawal of governmental fiscal incentives; the international nature of our business; technological innovation; our ability to derive revenues from new service offerings; unionization of any of our employees; and our ability to successfully consummate or integrate strategic acquisitions. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties, and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward looking statements. We are under no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are a leader in managing business processes, offering a broad portfolio of enterprise and industry-specific services. We manage over 3,000 processes for more than 400 clients worldwide. Putting process in the forefront, we couple our deep process knowledge and insights with focused information technology capabilities, targeted analytics and pragmatic reengineering to deliver comprehensive solutions for clients. Lean and Six Sigma are an integral part of our culture and we view the management of business processes as a science. We have launched Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ), a groundbreaking, rigorously scientific methodology for managing business processes, which focuses on optimizing process effectiveness in addition to efficiency to deliver superior business outcomes. Services are seamlessly delivered from a global network of centers to meet a clients business objectives, cultural and language needs and cost reduction goals. We have a unique heritage. We built our business by meeting the demands of the leaders of the General Electric Company, or GE, to increase the productivity of their businesses. We began in 1997 as the India-based captive business process services operation for General Electric Capital Corporation, or GE Capital, GEs financial services business. As the value of offshoring was demonstrated to the management of GE, it became a widespread practice at GE and our business grew in size and scope. We took on a wide range of complex and critical processes and we became a significant provider to many of GEs businesses, including Consumer Finance (GE Money), Commercial Finance, Healthcare, Industrial, NBC Universal and GEs corporate offices. Our leadership team, our methods and our culture have been deeply influenced by our eight years as a captive operation of GE. Many elements of GEs successthe rigorous use of metrics and analytics, the relentless focus on improvement, a strong emphasis on the client and innovative human resources practicesare the foundations of our business. As of December 31, 2009 we have more than 38,600 employees with operations in thirteen countries. In 2009, we had net revenues of $1.12 billion, of which 59.7% was from clients other than GE, which we refer to as Global Clients. Our registered office is located at Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM, Bermuda. The Company The 2004 Reorganization Prior to December 30, 2004, our business was conducted through various entities and divisions of GE. On December 30, 2004, in a series of transactions we refer to as the 2004 Reorganization, GE reorganized these operations by placing them all under Genpact Global Holdings SICAR S..r.l., or GGH, a newly formed company. GEs affiliate, GE Capital International (Mauritius) also sold an indirect 60% interest in GGH to Genpact Investment Co. (Lux) SICAR S..r.l., or GICo, an entity owned in equal portions by General Atlantic LLC, or General Atlantic, and Oak Hill Capital Partners, or Oak Hill. Since the 2004 Reorganization, GE, through its affiliates, sold a portion of its equity in us pursuant to several separate transactions. As of December 31, 2009, GE, through its affiliates, owned 18.37% of our outstanding equity. Following the 2004 Reorganization, we began operating as an independent company. We separated ourselves operationally from GE and began building the capabilities necessary to be successful as an independent company. Among other things, we expanded our management infrastructure and business development capabilities so that we could secure business from clients other than GE. We substantially expanded administrative functions for which we had previously relied primarily on GE, such as finance, legal, accounting and human resources. We created separate employee benefit and retirement plans, developed our own leadership training capability and enhanced our management information systems. 3 Table of Contents The 2007 Reorganization and IPO On March 29, 2007, we formed Genpact Limited in Bermuda to be the new holding company for our business. It was initially a wholly-owned subsidiary of GGH. On July 13, 2007, we effectuated a transaction that resulted in Genpact Limited owning 100% of the capital stock of GGH. This transaction together with other related transactions is referred to as the 2007 Reorganization. This transaction occurred by the shareholders of GGH exchanging their common shares of GGH for common shares of Genpact Limited and the shareholders of Genpact Global (Lux) S..r.l., or GGL, exchanging their common and preferred shares of GGL for common shares of Genpact Limited. In addition, as part of the 2007 Reorganization, GGL, which owned approximately 63% of the outstanding equity of GGH, became a wholly owned subsidiary of Genpact Limited pursuant to a share exchange. GGL had no operations or assets other than its ownership interest in GGH, and had no liabilities other than obligations for accumulated dividends on preferred shares that were eliminated in the 2007 Reorganization and certain tax liabilities of $2.1 million that were paid on July 27, 2007. GE, through its affiliate GE Capital (International) Mauritius Holdings Ltd., and GICo reimbursed us for such tax liabilities in accordance with their agreement to indemnify us for such liabilities. As part of the 2007 Reorganization, GGH became a Bermuda company and changed its name to Genpact Global Holding (Bermuda) Limited and GGL also became a Bermuda company, in accordance with the laws of Bermuda and Luxembourg and its name was changed to Genpact Global (Bermuda) Limited. We use the terms Genpact, Company, we and us to refer to both GGH and its subsidiaries prior to July 13, 2007 and Genpact Limited and its subsidiaries after such date. On August 1, 2007, we commenced an initial public offering of our common shares, pursuant to which we and certain of our existing shareholders each sold 17.65 million common shares at a price of $14 per share. The offering resulted in gross proceeds of $494.1 million and net proceeds to us and the selling shareholders of approximately $233.5 million each after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions. Additionally, we incurred offering-related expenses of approximately $9.0 million. On August 14, 2007, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase 5.29 million additional common shares from us at the initial offering price of $14 per share to cover over-allotments resulting in additional gross proceeds of $74.1 million and net proceeds of approximately $70.0 million to us, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions. Our Opportunity Globalization of the worlds economy remains the most powerful economic trend of our lifetime. It is driven by expanding technology capabilities, the relaxation of local laws and regulations that previously impeded cross-border trade, more efficient global telecommunications, demographic factors and the recognition by business leaders that a highly skilled global workforce can be a competitive business advantage. These dynamics are creating an entirely new set of competitive challenges for companies around the world. While the global economic downturn that began at the end of 2008 adversely affected many industries, including our own, we believe that the long-term trends favoring globalization of services will continue. Globalization has contributed to increased competition for companies around the world, particularly in the established economies of North America and Europe. These dynamics, together with the recent recessionary environment, have forced companies to focus on ways to improve productivity and manage costs more aggressively in order to maintain or enhance their competitive positions and increase shareholder value. As part of their response to the pressures of globalization, business leaders initially began offshoring business processes to captive businesses and outsourcing business processes to third parties, including by sending such processes offshore to workers in countries where wage levels were lower than in North America and Europe. Outsourcing initially focused on realizing immediate cost savings and involved labor-intensive processes such as call center services and data entry. The frequency with which these processes were outsourced increased as companies recognized that offshore service providers could run these processes more efficiently by recruiting and training skilled labor in larger numbers and at lower cost than was available in a companys home market. The use of information technology has also been an important catalyst for the growth of outsourcing. Before outsourcing business processes, companies more frequently outsourced IT operations. As companies realized 4 Table of Contents benefits from outsourcing IT services, they became more willing to outsource other types of processes. At the same time, growth in the use of IT contributed to greater efficiencies in business processes and other productivity enhancements. As a result, knowledge of IT platforms and technology became increasingly important to effective business process management. Initially, India became the primary destination for offshore business process outsourcing, due to wage levels that are much lower than in the United States. In addition, India offers a large, growing and highly educated English-speaking workforce, a time zone that offers a 24-hour work cycle from a North American and European perspective and a business and regulatory environment that is increasingly conducive to interacting with North American and European companies. However, as demand and the range of services have grown, other destinations have become increasingly important. This growth is a function of the increasing acceptance of the globalization of services and the constantly expanding notions of what can be outsourced and the benefits that can be achieved. The services that are being outsourced today are much broader, and involve much higher valued functionality than originally outsourced, and include engineering, design, software programming, accounting, healthcare services, legal services, financial analysis, consulting activities and other services, and cut across all industries. Ongoing competitive pressures and the need for further productivity improvements have led companies to consider outsourcing more critical and complex business processes and to focus on continuously improving those processes, rather than simply trying to operate them at a lower cost. As a result, many companies have been forced to redefine their core competencies. For example, companies across many industries have outsourced their accounting and finance functions, which were once considered core corporate activities, to third party providers. Today, companies look to achieve a wider range of objectives from outsourcing as portrayed in the diagram below: Each step along this continuum provides additional value to enterprises that outsource business processes. Delivering significant cost savings by transitioning business processes offshore allows companies to benefit from a labor cost arbitrage. Converting fixed costs into variable ones through outsourcing can provide additional capacity and ongoing business flexibility. Continuously improving business processes offers ongoing productivity benefits and margin expansion opportunities. Ultimately, companies seek business impact such as increased revenue, expanded margins, improved working capital management, increased customer satisfaction and enhancement in their competitive positions. Today, the willingness to outsource a broader array of business processes, from the relatively simple to the more critical and complex, and the fact that many business processes can be enhanced through the application of IT, has created an opportunity for service providers that have broad and deep capabilities, as well as expertise in both process operation and IT platforms. Companies that are ready to embrace the outsourcing of complex business processes are seeking service providers with a broad range of capabilities with which they can establish a strategic relationship that will grow over time. Many senior, or C-level, executives today consider the following factors when looking to collaborate with a service provider: Process excellence. A service provider should have accumulated significant experience and insight through having transitioned, managed and improved processes across a number of different service lines and industries. Global delivery. Many companies want a service provider with an extensive global delivery network, so that the provider can leverage a multi-lingual talent base to meet the clients needs across multiple geographies and time zones. 5 Table of Contents Analytical approach. A service provider should have the ability to apply advanced analytical methods to address its clients needs and to increase their productivity. IT expertise. A service provider should have knowledge of, and experience with, IT platforms and applications and be able to apply that IT expertise to improve business processes and transitioning. Domain expertise. A service provider should have institutional knowledge of relevant industries and functional processes. Stable workforce. The outsourcing industry has high employee attrition, leading companies often to consider whether the provider can effectively recruit, train and retain employees, as this is critical to delivering consistent high quality services. Scale. Large companies want a service provider that possesses a large employee base with strong middle and senior management as well as a technology and telecommunications infrastructure that can support large scale outsourcing engagements across multiple functions, business units and geographies. Our Solution We manage a wide range of business processes that address the transactional, managerial, reporting and planning needs of our clients. We seek to build long-term client relationships with companies that wish to improve the ways in which they do business and where we can offer a full range of services. With our broad and deep capabilities and our global delivery platform, our goal is to deliver comprehensive solutions and continuous process improvement to clients around the world and across multiple industries. Our Broad Expertise Our services include finance and accounting, collections and customer services, back office support for banking, financial services and insurance companies, supply chain and procurement, analytics, enterprise application and IT infrastructure. Significant business impact can often best be achieved by redesigning and operating a combination of processes, as well as providing multiple services that combine elements of several of our service offerings. In offering our services, we draw on three core capabilitiesprocess expertise, analytical ability and technology expertiseas well as the operational insight we have acquired from our experience managing thousands of processes in diverse industries. Process Expertise. We have extensive experience in operating a wide range of processes and have used this expertise to launch Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ). SEP SM is a unique, scientific, and highly granular approach to managing business processes. In addition to efficiency, it focuses on maximizing process effectiveness, which can deliver two to five times the end business outcomes, like cash flow and margins, when compared to processes that run at average or below. We also apply the principles of Six Sigma and Lean to eliminate defects and variation and reduce inefficiency and develop and track operational metrics to measure process performance as a means of monitoring service levels and enhancing productivity. Analytical Capabilities. Our analytical capabilities are central to our improving business processes. They enable us to work with our clients and identify weaknesses in business processes and redesign and re-engineer them to create additional business value and provide the data analysis and insights for supporting decision support processes for clients. We also rigorously apply analytical methodologies, which we use to measure and enhance performance of our client services. We also apply these methodologies to measure and improve our own internal functions, including recruitment and retention of personnel. 6 Table of Contents Technology Expertise. Our information technology expertise includes extensive knowledge of third-party hardware, network and computing infrastructure, and enterprise resource planning and other software applications. We also use technology to better manage the transition of processes, to automate and operate processes more efficiently and to replace or redesign processes so as to enhance productivity. Our ability to combine our business process and IT expertise along with our Six Sigma and Lean skills allow us, for example, to perform enterprise resource planning, or ERP, implementations on budget and on time, as well as to ensure our clients achieve the full potential of business intelligence platforms and web based software platforms. Operational Insight. Our operational insight enables us to make the best use of our core capabilities. Operational insight starts with the ability to understand the business context of a process. We place great value on understanding not only the industry in which a client operates, but also the business culture and institutional parameters within which a process is operated. Operational insight is also the judgment to determine the best way to improve a process in light of the knowledge of best practices across different industries, as well as an appreciation of what solutions can be fully implemented in the context of the particular business environment. Our Strategic Client Model We seek to create long-term relationships with our clients where they view us as an integral part of their organization and not just as a service provider. These relationships often begin with the outsourcing of discrete processes and, over time, expand to encompass multiple business processes across a broader set of functions and geographic areas. No matter how large or small the engagement, we strive to be a seamless extension of our clients operations. To achieve this goal, we developed the Genpact Virtual Captive SM model for service delivery, and we may implement all or some of its features in any given client relationship, depending on the clients needs. Under this approach, we provide a client with dedicated employees and management as well as dedicated infrastructure at our Delivery Centers to create a virtual extension of the clients own team and environment. We train our people in the clients culture so that they are familiar not only with the process but with the business environment in which it is being executed. Our Global Delivery Platform We have a global network of 39 Delivery Centers in thirteen countries. Our Delivery Centers are located in India, China, Guatemala, Hungary, Mexico, Morocco, the Philippines, Poland, the Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Spain and the United States. Our presence in locations around the world provides us with multi-lingual capabilities, access to a larger talent pool, near-shoring capabilities to take advantage of time zones as well as the ability to provide services from the United States. With this network, we can manage complex processes in multiple geographic regions. We use different locations for different types of services depending on the specific client needs and the mix of skills and cost of employees available in each location. We have been a pioneer in our industry in opening centers in several cities in India as well as in some of the other countries in which we operate and becoming an employer of choice in those locations. We expect to continue to expand our global footprint in order to better serve our clients. Our People and Culture We have an experienced and cohesive leadership team. Many members of our leadership team developed their management skills working within GE and many of them were involved in the founding of our business. They have built our business based on the experience gained in helping GE meet a wide range of challenges. As a result, we are an institutional embodiment of much of the wisdom and experience GE developed in improving and managing its own business processes. We have created, and constantly reinforce, a culture that emphasizes teamwork, constant improvement of our processes and, most importantly, dedication to the client. A key determinant of our success, especially as we continue to increase the scale of our business, is our ability to attract, hire, train and retain employees in highly competitive labor markets. We manage this challenge through innovative human resources practices. These include broadening the employee pool by opening Delivery Centers 7 Table of Contents in diverse locations, using innovative recruiting techniques to attract the best employees, emphasizing ongoing training, instilling a vibrant and distinctive culture and providing well-defined long term career paths. We also have programs modeled on GE management training programs to develop the next generation of leaders and managers of our business. As of December 31, 2009, we had more than 38,600 employees including over 10,700 employees with Six Sigma green-belt training and 530 employees with Six Sigma black-belt training, as well as more than 23,500 Lean trained employees. This large number of employees with Six Sigma and Lean training helps infuse our organization with a disciplined, analytical approach to everything we do. In addition, more than 9,000 of our employees hold post-graduate degrees and more than 23,800 are university graduates. We monitor and manage our attrition rate very closely, and believe our attrition rate is one of the lowest in the industry. We attribute this to our reputation, our ability to attract high quality applicants, our emphasis on maintaining our culture and the breadth of exposure, experience and opportunity for advancement that we provide to our employees. Our Strategy The specific elements of our strategy include the following: Expand Relationships with Existing Clients We continuously strive to deepen and expand relationships with our existing clients, including GE, and as of December 31, 2009 had more than 400 clients. Many of these relationships are at an early stage and we believe they offer significant opportunities for growth. As we demonstrate the value that we can provide, often with a discrete process, we are frequently able to expand the scope of our work in a variety of ways. Develop New Client Relationships In addition to expanding our current client relationships, we seek to develop new long-term client relationships, especially with those clients where we have an opportunity to deliver a broad range of our capabilities and can have a meaningful impact on their businesses. Continue To Promote Process Excellence The ability to deliver continuous process improvement is an important part of the value that we offer to our clients. We have built a significant repository of process expertise across a wide range of processes such as finance and accounting, supply chain, collections; order-to-cash; industry specific processes for banking, financial service and insurance companies; analytics and client service, and our process expertise is complemented by our ability to implement services and work across multiple technology platforms in diverse industries. Continue To Deepen Our Expertise and Global Capabilities We will continue to expand our capabilities globally as well as across industries and service offerings. While we expect this will occur primarily through organic growth, we also plan to evaluate strategic partnerships, alliances and acquisitions to expand into new services offerings as well as into new industries. For example, we acquired an analytics business in 2010, a SAP services provider and a risk assurance company in 2007, a mortgage fulfillment services business in 2006 and an accounts receivable management business in 2005. We believe we were also one of the first companies in our industry to establish a presence in several cities in India, such as Gurgaon, Jaipur and Kolkata, as well as in Dalian, China; Budapest, Hungary; and Bucharest, Romania, and to create a global service delivery capability. We intend to continue to expand our global delivery capabilities to ensure that we can meet the rapidly evolving needs of our clients, including processes requiring multi-jurisdictional and multi-lingual capabilities. 8 Table of Contents Maintain Our Culture and Enhance Our Human Capital Our ability to grow our business will depend on our ability to continue to attract, train and retain large numbers of talented individuals. We will continue to develop innovative recruiting techniques and to emphasize learning throughout the tenure of an employees career. We also believe that maintaining our vibrant and distinctive culture, in which we emphasize teamwork, continuous process improvement and dedication to the client, is critical to growing our business. Our Services We provide a wide range of services to our clients. We group our services into the following categories: finance and accounting; collections and customer service; banking, financial services and insurance; supply chain and procurement; analytics; re-engineering; enterprise application; software tools and automation; and IT infrastructure. The services we provide any particular client often draw on processes and platforms in several of these categories. We understand that senior management of our clients are focused on achieving business objectives, rather than on transferring particular processes or employing particular platforms. Therefore, we focus on understanding the business needs of our clients and the business context of existing processes in order to design appropriate and comprehensive solutions for our clients, which may involve processes and platforms that fall into several categories. Finance and Accounting We are one of the worlds premier providers of finance and accounting, or F&A, services. This is currently one of our largest service offerings. Our finance and accounting services include end-to-end transaction services, such as accounts payable processing and receivables management; core accounting services, including preparation of International Financial Reporting Standards, U.S. GAAP and SEC-compliant financial statements; core operations services, including cash management, preparation of tax returns as well as decision support services, which include cash flow analysis. Our services combine our process expertise with strong technology capabilities, including decision support tools such as Hyperion, SAS and Cognos, and platform support for ERP systems such as Oracle and SAP and new technology bundling such as OCR and invoice exchange. 9 Table of Contents The chart below highlights our F&A service offerings: Collections and Customer Services Our collections and customer services are provided primarily in the areas of consumer finance, commercial finance and mortgage services. Our collections services include a full range of accounts receivable management services, such as early to late stage collections, skip-tracing, refunds, account reconciliation and other specialized services. In our collections services, we act as an agent; we do not acquire debts for our own account. Our customer services include account servicing and customer care services such as handling customer queries, general servicing and dispute resolution. We provide voice and non-voice services. We also provide origination and order management services. The chart below highlights some of our collections and customer service offerings: 10 Table of Contents Banking, Financial and Insurance Services We provide analytic, process and technology services to companies within the banking and financial services market designed to increase revenue, enhance customer satisfaction and reduce risk. The chart below highlights some of our banking and financial services offerings: We provide what we refer to as a virtual insurance company for our clients in the insurance industry. We cover many phases of insurance business processes including product development, sales and marketing, policy administration and claims management. We use our analytics capabilities to help our clients devise new models for underwriting, risk management and actuarial analysis. We also handle corporate functions for insurance companies, including reporting and monitoring services for regulatory compliance, portfolio and performance review services and financial planning and tax services. We offer services across the following three key insurance market segments: life and annuities; property and casualty; and health. 11 Table of Contents The chart below highlights some of our insurance service offerings: Supply Chain and Procurement Our supply chain and procurement services include sourcing services, sales, inventory and operations planning services, logistics services and after market services. This often includes designing sourcing and procurement processes to control maverick buying, overhauling inventory planning systems to optimize inventory levels, designing and implementing logistics services that integrate disparate technology systems and provide dynamic digital dashboard reporting, or designing after-market service systems that ensure fulfillment of contractual obligations and enhance database integrity. We commonly utilize our technology expertise in delivering our services in this area particularly in automating order management processes and monitoring and optimizing supply chain logistics. We have competency in many of the custom platforms used by our clients (e.g., i2, Manugistics and Xelus) and are not tied to any one platform. This enables us to utilize and design the best processes for our clients based on available systems. The chart below highlights some of our supply chain and procurement service offerings: Analytics In addition to incorporating analytics into our other service offerings, at Genpact analytics is its own service offering and we believe we are a leader in this area. Our clients frequently have data that can be used to assess business opportunities, mitigate risks, improve performance or otherwise help their businesses. However, they do not always recognize the potential in such data or do not have the capability to apply the rigorous analytical models that might reveal opportunities. Drawing on considerable domain expertise and sophisticated research 12 Table of Contents science, we help clients make fact-based decisions for superior results. By quantitatively and qualitatively scrutinizing data we can deliver the insight necessary to assess a new business opportunity, mitigate market risks, or retain and build market share. In our view, almost any data, properly broken down and interpreted, can improve performance. The chart below describes some of the most common applications of our analytics capabilities: Re-engineering Our re-engineering services help clients realize cost savings or increased revenues by improving processes that are underperforming or designing processes that are needed to meet growth objectives. Clients engage our re-engineering teams to provide an end-to-end view of their organization and help determine business process needs at a strategic level as well as at the execution level. Strategically, we help clients achieve a comprehensive assessment of how well their enterprise level processes such as source-to-pay, order-to-cash or record-to-repair, perform against industry benchmarks and best practices. At the execution level we institutionalize the recommendations by deploying resources to train the client team and drive sustainable best practices. Enterprise Application Services With our enterprise application services, we plan, design, build, test, implement, run and support software solutions for our clients. We leverage our functional and domain knowledge in industries such as banking & financial services, insurance, manufacturing, automotive and healthcare and use Six Sigma and Lean principles to reduce the cycle time of software implementations. This can include enterprise resource planning, or ERP, supply chain management, financial management and customer relationship management solutions as well as testing, database administration and architecture services. We also have significant expertise in Hyperion, SAS and Cognos, and platform support for ERP systems such as Oracle , SAP and Microsoft. 13 Table of Contents (1) Examples of these business intelligence platforms include Hyperion and Cognos. (2) Examples of these webstack software programs include Java and net. Software Tools and Automation Our software tools and automation services consist of both transformational and efficiency enabling capabilities. We help clients maximize their existing, installed investments in key software platforms by providing the needed tools for incremental functionality and automation. We use best-of-breed software tools available in the market as well as our own software tools. Examples of Genpacts software tools include GenPro SM Invoice Exchange, which lowers invoice processing costs by eliminating the need for any manual intervention in data entry and contributes to increased cash flow by identifying un-captured discount opportunities. ProFlow SM AP is Genpacts accounts payable workflow tool, which automates work allocation for increased productivity and ensures a standardized way of working on a process. And the GenPower SM Cforia Credit Collection Chargeback Management software increases profitability by decreasing charge backs through recovery and avoidance. By combining our process domain expertise with leading ERP applications, wrappers and tools, we are able to create solutions for maximum business impact. IT Infrastructure Services Our IT infrastructure services consist of the onsite and remote management of IT functions of our clients. This includes management of a clients data centers, networks services, network security, malware protection, identity management, encryption services, databases and end-user Help Desk support. Along with ITIL (ISO 20000), we use Six Sigma and Lean principles to address technology problems and to enable our clients to align their IT to business needs and at the same time reducing technology costs. We use secure, global state of the art Remote Operations Centre (ROC) and our IPs like Lean Desk to sustain our differentiation. 14 Table of Contents The chart below highlights some of the IT infrastructure services we provide: Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ) SEP SM is a unique, scientific, and highly granular approach to managing business processes. In addition to efficiency, it focuses on maximizing process effectiveness, which can deliver two to five times the end business outcomes, like cash flow and margins, when compared to processes that run at average or below. SEP SM is based on work done in the Genpact Process Innovation Lab, where we have leveraged our database of over 200 million transactions to map and analyze end-to-end processes at a granular level. This enables us to test the effectiveness of a clients processes by measuring points of leakage and applying best-in-class benchmarks from within and across industries. The result is a client specific road map for maximizing process effectiveness. Benefits are delivered by combining Genpacts deep domain knowledge of process, key insights and best practices with execution support including, focused IT applications and technology, targeted analytics, reengineering and global delivery services. Unlike other approaches, SEP SM focuses on measuring business outcomes like cash flow and margins, which make visible the effectiveness of a process in driving business results. The approach also takes an end-to-end, enterprise-wide view, working beyond traditional organizational silos. Six Sigma and Lean Methodologies Our GE heritage taught us the importance of the principles of Six Sigma and Lean in refining business processes. Six Sigma is a method for improving quality by removing variation, defects and their causes in business process activities. Applying Six Sigma principles involves the application of a number of sub-methodologies, including DMAIC (define, measure, analyze, improve and control), which is a system for incremental improvement in existing processes, and DMADV (define, measure, analyze, design and verify), which is a system used to develop new processes at Six Sigma quality levels. We have Six Sigma programs that train, test and grade employees in Six Sigma principles and award them Six Sigma qualifications. The rankings of Six Sigma qualifications from lowest to highest are green-belt, black-belt and master black-belt. As of December 31, 2009, we had more than 10,700 employees with Six Sigma green-belt training and 530 employees with Six Sigma black-belt training, as well as more than 23,500 Lean 15 Table of Contents trained employees. Unlike many of our competitors who have a relatively small number of Six Sigma trained employees, we have a large number of Six Sigma green-belts and black-belts and therefore we can provide certain of our clients with dedicated Six Sigma trained personnel who can help the clients achieve continuous process improvement on a full-time basis. Lean is a methodology for measuring and reducing waste or inefficiency in a process. Among other things, it is designed to measure and eliminate overproduction, over-processing and waiting, and to improve the flow of a process. Lean tools and methods are easy to learn and simple to implement and lend themselves to being implemented by associates on the production floor, thus making it valuable across the company. We constantly measure the performance of each process we manage for our clients and we work with our clients to develop customized reporting systems so that they have real time access to key metrics. We also apply these principles to our own internal processes in order to deliver efficient operations for our clients. Our expertise in applying Six Sigma and Lean methodologies is one of the key factors that distinguishes us from our competitors. Industries We provide our services across a wide range of industries including banking and financial services, insurance, manufacturing, transportation and healthcare. We set forth below a table showing our net revenues in 2009 attributable to the various industry groups that we serve. Industry Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Net revenues in millions) Banking, financial services and insurance $ 488.1 Manufacturing and healthcare 442.6 Others 189.4 Total $ 1,120.1 Our Clients Our clients include some of the best known companies in the world, many of which are leaders in their respective industries. GE has been our largest client and we benefit from a long-term contract whereby GE has committed to purchase stipulated minimum dollar amounts of services through 2016. Since our separation from GE, we have actively marketed our services to other companies and have succeeded in building a diversified client base. Many of these relationships are at an early stage and we believe they offer opportunities for growth. GE accounted for approximately 40.3% of our revenues in fiscal 2009. We currently provide services to all of GEs business units including GE Capital, GE Infrastructure Energy, GE Infrastructure Technology and NBC Universal as well as to GEs corporate head office. The services we currently provide to GE are broad in their nature and are drawn from all of our service offerings. Although we have a single master services agreement, or MSA, with GE, we have approximately 2,200 statements of work, or SOWs, with GE. Currently, as a general matter, each GE business unit makes its own decisions as to whether to enter into a SOW with us and as to the terms of any such SOW. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, our revenues from GE are generally attributable to a number of different businesses each with its own leader responsible for decision-making regarding outsourcing. We have over 400 Global Clients spread across a variety of industries and geographies. Our net revenues from Global Clients have increased rapidly in the last five years, from $42.2 million in 2005 to $668.7 million in 2009. Our net revenues from Global Clients as a percentage of total net revenues increased from 8.6% in 2005 to 59.7% in 2009. The 2009 net revenues from Global Clients include $23.7 million for businesses that were part of GE in 2008. See 16 Table of Contents Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsClassification of Certain Net Revenues. The majority of our Global Clients are based in the United States, and we also have Global Clients in Europe, Asia and Australia. Our contracts with our clients generally take the form of an MSA, which is a framework agreement that is then supplemented by SOWs. Our MSAs specify the general terms applicable to the services we will provide. For a discussion of the components of our MSAs and SOWs, see Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewRevenues. Our clients include AstraZeneca, Aon, BUPA, Cadbury Schweppes, GE, Genworth Financial, GlaxoSmithKline, Hertz, Hyatt, Information Resources, Inc., Kimberly-Clark, MassMutual Financial Group, National Australia Bank, Nissan, Symantec, SABMiller, United Biscuits, Walgreens and Wells Fargo. Our People Our people are critical to the success of our business. Our Chief Executive Officer and other members of our senior leadership team have been involved in our business since its commencement under GE. As of December 31, 2009, we had more than 38,600 employees worldwide. As of that date, more than 7,000 of our employees held post-graduate degrees and more than 15,000 were university graduates. In addition, as of that date we had more than 10,700 employees with Six Sigma green-belt training and 530 employees with Six Sigma black-belt training, as well as more than 23,500 Lean trained employees. Recruiting Despite the recent global recession, we continue to face meaningful competition for skilled employees. We have developed a number of innovative methods to recruit sufficiently skilled employees while still controlling our entry-level salaries. In particular, we seek to widen the available talent pool by recruiting aggressively in places where there is less competition. We also hire people who do not have prior experience or training and use our extensive training capability to equip them with the skills they need to be effective. Some measures we use include the following: In 2008, we formed a joint venture with NIIT to create a training organization designed to address the increasing demand for skilled workers in the business process & technology services industry. As of February 2010, approximately 24,000 of our employees received training from the joint venture. We have opened Delivery Centers in cities that are considered less developed. There is often less competition for available talent in less developed cities although we have found the pool of well trained applicants to be comparable to other metropolitan cities. We work with universities in our Indian geographic locations in order to build an appropriate curriculum with the aim that graduates in those cities will have the skills they need to be effective employees and will be familiar with us. We have 8 storefront premises that we use for recruiting. In 2009, approximately 11% of our new hires were recruited through our storefront locations. We also actively encourage our existing employees to refer new candidates to us, and we provide existing employees with monetary bonuses when such referrals result in new hires. In 2009, approximately 28% of our new hires were referrals. Training We believe in extensive and continuous training of our employees. We have the infrastructure to train approximately 1,200 people at any one time with over 250 trainers and we have more than 8,000 people enrolled in part-time professional degree programs provided by universities and other third parties. Our training programs 17 Table of Contents are designed to transfer the industry specific knowledge and experience of our industry leaders to ensure we maintain our deep process expertise and domain expertise across all industries in which we work. Our training programs cover a vast number of topics, including specific service offerings, key technical and IT skills, our different clients workplace cultures and Six Sigma and Lean methodologies. We also have programs modeled on GE management training programs to develop the next generation of leaders and managers of our business, all of whom are needed to support the rapid growth we are experiencing. A large part of our continuous training is designed to up-skill our employees. That is, we run training programs for employees on an ongoing basis so that they can acquire new skills and move on to higher responsibility or higher-value jobs. Retention In order to meet our growth and service commitments, we are constantly striving to attract and retain employees. There is significant turnover of employees in the business process outsourcing and information technology sectors generally, particularly in India where the majority of our employees are currently based. Competition for skilled employees in India is very high due to strong economic growth and an increased number of players in this space. Our attrition rate for all employees who have been employed by us for one day or more was 23% in 2009. A number of our competitors calculate employee attrition rates for their Indian employees who have been employed for six months or more. On this basis our Indian employee attrition rate for 2009 would be approximately 20%, which we believe is relatively low for our industry based on statistics published by industry associations such as NASSCOM. We attribute this low attrition rate to a number of factors including our effective recruiting measures, extensive training and a strong culture of providing opportunities for growth and learning. Approximately 17% of our employees were promoted in 2009. We also take aggressive action to monitor and minimize potential attrition. Using Six Sigma principles we have developed an early warning system that tracks employees and gives us an insight into which employees are most likely to resign. These employees are automatically highlighted to management who can take action such as relocating the employee or enrolling the employee in continuing education programs to reduce the possibility and impact of such a resignation. As another measure designed to minimize attrition, we follow the practice of right-skilling our employees to the tasks assigned to them. This means that we match the level of services required to the experience and qualification of the employee concerned and we avoid having over-qualified people in any particular job. This allows us to give our highly qualified and experienced people higher-value jobs and, coupled with the practice of up-skilling, ensures better career paths for all our employees. Sales and Marketing We market our services to both existing and potential clients through our business development team. This team consists of approximately 115 people as of December 31, 2009 based in the United States, Europe, Australia and Asia. We spend time trying to expand the services we provide to our existing strategic clients as well as develop new clients. We have dedicated global relationship managers for each of our strategic relationships. The relationship manager is supported by process improvement, quality, transition, finance, human resources and information technology teams to ensure the best possible solution is provided to our clients. We constantly measure our client satisfaction levels to ensure that we maintain high service levels for each client, using measures such as net promoter scores. Our marketing efforts typically involve a lengthy selling cycle to secure a new client. Our efforts may begin in response to a perceived opportunity, a reference by an existing client, a request for proposal, an introduction 18 Table of Contents by one of our directors or otherwise. In addition to our business development personnel, the sales effort involves people from the relevant service areas, people familiar with that prospective clients industry, business leaders and Six Sigma resources. We may expend substantial time and capital in securing new business. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewRevenues. As our relationship with a client grows, the time required to win an engagement for additional services often gradually declines. In addition, as we become more knowledgeable about a clients business and processes, our ability to identify opportunities to create value for the client typically increases. In particular, productivity benefits and greater business impact can often be achieved by focusing on processes that are upstream or downstream from the processes we initially handle, or by applying our analytical and IT capabilities to re-engineer processes. In addition, clients often become more willing over time to turn over more complex and critical processes to us as we demonstrate our capabilities. We also try to foster relationships between our senior leadership team and our clients senior management. These C-level relationships ensure that both parties are focused on establishing priorities, aligning objectives and driving client value from the top down. High-level executive relationships have been particularly constructive as a means of increasing business from our existing clients. It also provides us with a forum for addressing client concerns. Our New Business Review Process We follow a rigorous review process to evaluate all new business. This is to ensure that all new business fits with our pricing and service objectives. This process starts with the presentation of new business to our deal review committee which comprises members of our senior leadership team along with operations people and members of our finance department. This committee applies a set of well developed criteria to review the key terms of that new business. If, as a result of the review, the committee concludes that the new business is potentially attractive and a good use of our resources, then our business development team is authorized to pursue the opportunity. Prior to executing any contract in respect of new business, our deal review committee meets again to review the client relationship and to confirm that the terms of the new business continue to meet our criteria. Delivery Centers We commenced business in 1997 in Gurgaon, India. Since then we have established global delivery capabilities consisting of 39 Delivery Centers in thirteen countries (not including our employees who are onsite at our clients premises). We choose the location of our Delivery Centers based on a number of factors which include the available talent pool, infrastructure, government support and operating costs, as well as client demand. We were one of the first companies in our industry to move into some of our locations including Dalian, China; Budapest, Hungary; Bucharest, Romania; and Gurgaon, Jaipur and Kolkata in India. We aim to be continuously connected with our clients requirements so that we are ready to serve their needs. We constantly evaluate new locations, including new countries and new cities within countries in which we currently operate, for new Delivery Centers and offices. The large number of different countries from which we service our clients differentiates us from a number of our competitors and enables us to take advantage of different languages and time-zones which, in turn, enhances our ability to service global clients. As of December 31, 2009, we provided services in more than 25 different languages. Some of our clients also contract with us for additional redundancy and back-up protections. 19 Table of Contents The map below shows the location of our existing global Delivery Centers and our regional corporate offices. We have multiple locations in some cities. We set forth below a table showing our net revenues in 2009 attributable to the main regions in which we have Delivery Centers. A portion of the net revenues we attribute to India consists of net revenues for services performed by Delivery Centers or at client premises outside of India by business units or personnel normally based in India. See note 27 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding net revenues attributable to geographic regions. Year ended December 31, 2009 (Net revenues in millions) Region India $ 807.5 Asia, other than India 115.1 Americas 80.1 Europe 117.4 Total $ 1,120.1 NGEN Joint Venture NGEN Media Services Private Limited, or NGEN, was founded in March 2006 as a 50:50 joint venture between us and NDTV Networks Plc., or NDTV, to provide outsourcing services to the global media industry, including video editing, digitization and graphics art work. NGEN brings together our operational excellence with NDTVs domain expertise in the media industry. Pramod Bhasin, Genpacts President and CEO, is a director of NGEN and Chairman of its board. NIIT Joint Venture In June 2008, we formed a joint venture called NIIT Uniqua, or NIITJV, with NIIT, one of the largest training institutes in Asia. NIITJV is a training organization designed to address the increasing demand for skilled workers in the business process and technology services industry. Genpact owns 25% of NIITJV. 20 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We develop intellectual property in the course of our business and our MSAs with our clients regulate the ownership of such intellectual property. We have applied for patents, trademarks and domain names. Some of our intellectual property rights relate to proprietary business process enhancements. We generally use third-party software platforms and the software systems of our clients to provide our services. We normally enter into licensing agreements with our clients in relation to their software systems. It is our practice to enter into an Employee Information & Proprietary Information Agreement with all of our new employees that: ensures that all new intellectual property developed in the course of our employees employment is assigned to us; provides for that employees co-operation in intellectual property protection matters even if they no longer work for us; and includes a confidentiality undertaking by that employee. Competition We compete in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving global market. We have a number of competitors offering the same or similar services to us. Our competitors include: large multinational service providers, such as Accenture Ltd and International Business Machines Corporation; companies that are primarily business process service providers operating from low-cost countries, most commonly India, such as WNS Holdings Limited and ExlService Holdings, Inc.; companies that are primarily information technology service providers with some business process service capabilities, such as Infosys Technologies Limited, Tata Consultancy Services Limited and Wipro Limited; and smaller, niche service providers that provide services in a specific geographic market, industry or service area. In addition, a client or potential client may choose not to outsource its business, including by setting up captive outsourcing operations or by performing formerly outsourced services for themselves. Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our industry include: skills and capabilities of people; ability to add value, including through continuous process improvement; reputation and client references; price; technical and industry expertise; scope of services; quality of services and solutions; 21 Table of Contents ability to sustain long-term client relationships; and global reach and scale. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis. Regulation We are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions around the world as a result of the complexity of our operations and services, including at the federal, state and local level, particularly in the countries where we have operations and where we deliver services. These countries include China, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands, Poland, the Philippines, Romania, South Africa, Spain, the United States and the United Kingdom. We are also subject to regulation by regional bodies such as the European Union. In addition, the terms of our service contracts typically require that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. In some contracts, we are required to comply even if such laws and regulations apply to our clients, but not to us. In other service contracts our clients undertake the responsibility to inform us about laws and regulations that may apply to us in jurisdictions in which they are located. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we may be restricted in our ability to provide services, and may also be the subject of civil or criminal actions involving penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our clients generally have the right to terminate our contracts for cause in the event of regulatory failures, subject to notice periods. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessAny failures to adhere to the regulations that govern our business could result in our being unable to effectively perform our services. Failure to adhere to regulations that govern our clients businesses could result in breaches of contract under our MSAs. In the United States, we are subject to laws and regulations arising out of our work for clients operating there, especially in the area of banking, financial services and insurance, such as the Financial Modernization Act (sometimes referred to as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the USA Patriot Act, the Bank Service Company Act, the Home Owners Loan Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the Troubled Assets Relief Program as well as regulation by U.S. agencies such as the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision. We are also subject to regulation under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, the Communications Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act and applicable regulations in the area of health and other personal information that we process as part of our services. Because of our debt collections work in the United States, we are also regulated by laws such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act and the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act and underlying regulations. We are currently licensed to engage in debt collection activities in all States except Nevada, as well as New York City, Buffalo, New York and Washington D.C. We are subject to laws in the United States, the United Kingdom and the EU that are intended to limit the impact of outsourcing on employees in those countries. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessFuture legislation in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly impact the ability of our clients to utilize our services. We are also subject to laws and regulations on direct marketing, such as the Telemarketing Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act and the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and rules promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission, and the CAN-SPAM Act. 22 Table of Contents We are subject to laws and regulations governing foreign trade, such as the Arms Export Control Act, as well as by government bodies such as the Commerce Departments Bureau of Industry and Security, the State Departments Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control. We benefit from tax relief provided by laws and regulations in India, the Philippines, Morocco, and Guatemala, which include tax holidays under the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961 that expire in stages by March 31, 2011 (available to units setup under the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) Scheme). The Indian SEZ legislation introduced a new tax holiday in certain situations for operations established in designated special economic zones. The new tax benefits are available only for new business operations that are conducted at qualifying SEZ locations. During the last 3 years, we established new Delivery Centers in three cities in India that would be eligible for these benefits. We do not presently know what percentage of our operations or income in India in future years will be eligible for a tax holiday under the new law. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewIncome Taxes. In addition to the tax holidays described above, certain benefits are also available to us under certain Indian state laws. These benefits include rebates and waivers in relation to payments for the transfer or registration of property (including for the purchase or lease of premises), waivers of conversion fees for land, exemption from state pollution control requirements, entry tax exemptions, labor law exemptions and commercial usage of electricity. Our hedging activities and currency transfer are restricted by regulations in certain countries, including India, Romania and China. Certain Bermuda Law Considerations As a Bermuda company, we are also subject to regulation in Bermuda. Among other things, we must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act regulating the payment of dividends and making of distributions from contributed surplus. We are classified as a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Pursuant to our non-resident status, we may engage in transactions in currencies other than Bermuda dollars. There are no restrictions on our ability to transfer funds, other than funds denominated in Bermuda dollars, in and out of Bermuda or to pay dividends to United States residents that are holders of our common shares. Under Bermuda law, exempted companies are companies formed for the purpose of conducting business outside Bermuda from a principal place of business in Bermuda. As an exempted company, we may not, without a license or consent granted by the Minister of Finance, participate in certain business transactions, including transactions involving Bermuda landholding rights and the carrying on of business of any kind for which we are not licensed in Bermuda. Available Information We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC, copies of which can be obtained from the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge on our website, www.genpact.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 23 Table of Contents 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Executive Officers The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers as of February 19, 2010: Name Age Position(s) Pramod Bhasin 58 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Vivek N. Gour 47 Chief Financial Officer N.V. Tyagarajan 48 Chief Operating Officer Robert Pryor 51 Executive Vice President, Global Sales and Marketing Mohit Bhatia 45 Senior Vice President and Business Leader Patrick Cogny 43 Chief Executive Officer of Genpact Europe Mitsuru Maekawa 62 Chief Executive Officer of Genpact Asia Victor Guaglianone 54 Senior Vice President and General Counsel Piyush Mehta 41 Senior Vice President, Human Resources Walter A. Yosafat 49 Senior Vice President, Operations-Americas and Chief Information Officer Pramod Bhasin is our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Bhasin founded our business in 1997 while employed by GE. Prior to 1997, he served in various positions at GE, including as Chief Financial Officer for GE Capitals Corporate Finance Group. Vivek N. Gour has served as our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice-President since January 2005. On February 11, 2010. Mr. Gour informed us that he was resigning effective March 1, 2010. From September 2003 to December 2004, he served as Chief Financial Officer for GE Capital Business Processes. From September 2002 to September 2003, he served as Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice-President of our business and of GE Capital India and from August 2001 to September 2002 as Senior Vice-President (Strategic Projects), GE Capital India. N.V. Tyagarajan has served as our Chief Operating Officer since February 2009. From February 2005 to February 2009, he was our Executive Vice President and Head of Sales, Marketing & Business Development. From October 2002 to January 2005, he was Senior Vice President, Quality and Global Operations, for GEs Commercial Equipment Finance division. Between 1999 and 2002, he served as our Chief Executive Officer. Robert Pryor joined us as our Executive Vice President, Global Sales and Marketing in February 2009. From January 2007 to January 2009, he was Senior Vice President, Outsourcing Services, for Hewlett Packard Company. Between 2000 and 2006, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Capgemini and Capgemini Energy. Mohit Bhatia has served as the Senior Vice President and Business Leader for our finance and accounting practice since December 2004. From October 2003 to December 2004 he served as our Chief Financial Officer. On March 1, 2010, Mr. Bhatia will replace Vivek Gour as our Chief Financial Officer. Patrick Cogny became our Chief Executive Officer of Genpact Europe in 2005. Prior to this, he spent 15 years working for GE in the Healthcare business and in the GE Europe corporate headquarters, in France, the United States and Belgium. Mitsuru Maekawa became our Chief Executive Officer of Genpact Asia, excluding India, in 2002. From 1988 to 2001 he worked for GE Medical Systems, a division of GE Healthcare, where he was General Manager of sales for GE Yokogawa Medical Systems from 1999 to 2001. Victor Guaglianone has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary since January 2007. From 2004 to 2007, he was senior counsel at Holland & Knight LLP. From 2003 to 2004, he served as a commercial arbitrator for the American Arbitration Association. Prior to 2003, he spent 16 years at GE Capital, most recently as Vice President and Associate General Counsel. 24 Table of Contents Piyush Mehta became our Senior Vice President of Human Resources in March 2005. He has worked for us since 2001 as Vice President of Human Resources. Walter A. Yosafat joined us as our Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in March 2007. In March 2009, he also became the business leader for our Americas operations. From 2001 to February 2007, he was the Chief Information Officer and eBusiness Leader at Trane, an American Standard company. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients businesses and levels of business activity. Global economic and political conditions affect our clients businesses and the markets they serve. The global economic downturn that began at the end of 2008 had an adverse impact on the volume of services we provide to our clients and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If current global economic conditions continue or worsen, or if economic contraction continues in the industries or geographies where we operate, our business could be adversely affected by our clients financial condition and the levels of business activity in the industries we serve. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. Negative or uncertain political climates, including adoption of restrictive legislation, in countries or geographies where we operate could also adversely affect us. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for or respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. GE accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and any loss of business from, or change in our relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have derived and are likely to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from GE. For 2007, 2008 and 2009, GE accounted for 58.5%, 47.1% and 40.3% of our revenues, respectively. In addition, our more mature client relationships, such as GE, typically generate higher margins than those from newer clients. The loss of business from GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our master services agreement, or MSA, with GE commits GE to purchase, on an annual basis through 2016, a stipulated minimum dollar amount of services or pay us certain costs in lieu thereof. The costs which GE would be required to pay if it does not meet a minimum annual commitment are not necessarily equal to the amount by which GEs purchases fall short of that minimum annual commitment. While our revenues from GE in 2009 were $451.3 million, exceeding by $91.3 million the stipulated minimum annual amount for that year, there is no assurance that actual revenues from GE in future years will meet the minimum annual commitment or exceed it by as much as in 2009 or that GE will continue to be a client at all. Revenues in excess of the minimum annual commitment can be credited, subject to certain limitations, against shortfalls in subsequent years. In addition, the MSA provides that the minimum annual committed amount of $360 million will be reduced during the last three years of the term, to $250 million in 2014, $150 million in 2015 and $90 million in 2016. The MSA provides that the minimum annual committed amount is subject to reduction in certain circumstances, including as a result of the termination of any statements of work, or SOWs, by GE for cause, non-performance of services by us due to specified force majeure events or certain other reasons. The MSA also does not require GE to engage us exclusively in respect of business process services. In addition, pricing terms and pricing levels under future SOWs may be lower than in the past. In particular, because of the size of GE and its importance to our business it is able to exert considerable leverage on us when negotiating the terms of SOWs. 25 Table of Contents Our business from GE comes from a variety of GEs businesses and decisions to use our services are currently, as a general matter, made by a number of people within GE. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, the total level of business we receive generally depends on the decisions of the various operating managers of such businesses. In addition, if GE sells or divests any of the businesses to which we provide services, the new management or new owners of such businesses may choose to discontinue our services. Furthermore, since December 31, 2009, GE is no longer subject to a contractual restriction with us on its ability to set up a separate business unit to provide English-language business process services from low-wage countries. There can be no assurance that GE will not now establish such a separate business unit or otherwise compete with us. GE, through its affiliates, is a significant shareholder of our company and as of December 31, 2009 it, through its affiliates, beneficially owns 18.37% of our common shares. If GEs percentage of ownership of our common shares decreases in the future, there can be no assurance that GE will continue to contract for our services to the same extent or on the same terms. Over the next few years we will lose certain tax benefits provided in India to companies in our industry and it is not clear whether new tax policies will provide equivalent benefits and incentives. Under the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961, our Delivery Centers in India, from which we derived the majority of our revenues in fiscal 2009, benefit from a ten-year holiday from Indian corporate income taxes in respect of their export income (as defined in the legislation) under the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) Scheme. As a result of this tax holiday, prior to 2007 we incurred minimal income tax expense with respect to our Indian operations. In the absence of this tax holiday, income derived from our Indian operations would be taxed up to the maximum tax rate generally applicable to Indian enterprises, which, as of December 31, 2009, was 33.99%. The tax holiday enjoyed by our Delivery Centers in India under the STPI Scheme expires in stages. Our tax holiday partially expired on March 31, 2007 (in respect of approximately 30% of our Indian operations), on March 31, 2008 (in respect of approximately 10% of our Indian operations) and on March 31, 2009 (in respect of approximately 30% of our Indian operations), depending in each case on when each Delivery Center commenced operations. The tax holiday in respect of the balance of our Indian operations under the STPI regime will expire on March 31, 2011. As the STPI tax holiday expires, our Indian tax expense will materially increase and our after-tax profitability will be materially reduced, unless we can obtain comparable benefits under new legislation or otherwise reduce our tax liability. The Special Economic Zones Act, 2005, or the SEZ legislation, introduced a new 15-year tax holiday scheme for operations established in designated special economic zones or SEZs. Under the SEZ legislation, qualifying operations are eligible for a deduction from taxable income equal to (i) 100% of their export profits (as defined in the legislation) derived for the first five years from the commencement of operations; (ii) 50% of such export profits for the next five years; and (iii) 50% of the export profits for a further five years, subject to satisfying certain capital investment requirements. The SEZ legislation provides, among other restrictions, that this holiday is not available to operations formed by splitting up or reconstructing existing operations or transferring existing plant and equipment to new SEZ locations. During the last 3 years, we established new centers that we expect to be eligible for the SEZ benefits. It is not clear, however, what percentage of our operations or income in India is eligible for SEZ benefits, as this will depend on how much of our business can be conducted at the qualifying locations and how much of that business can be considered to meet the restrictive conditions described above. In 2007, we signed agreements with certain developers and local governments to purchase and/or lease qualifying SEZ property. Our first SEZ unit also became operational during 2007 in a leased facility. However, because this is relatively new legislation, there is continuing uncertainty as to the interpretation of the required governmental and regulatory approvals. This uncertainty may delay development of our proposed SEZ locations. The SEZ legislation continues to be a politically sensitive issue in India. The Ministry of Finance in India has expressed concern about potential tax revenues being lost as a result of the exemptions under the SEZ legislation. The SEZ legislation has been criticized on economic grounds by the International Monetary Fund and it has been suggested that the SEZ legislation may be challenged by the World Trade Organization. It is possible 26 Table of Contents that, as a result of such political pressures, the procedure for obtaining the benefits of the SEZ legislation may become more onerous, that the types of real-property eligible for SEZ status will be further restricted or that the SEZ legislation will be amended or repealed. Accordingly, we currently do not expect that the benefits, if any, that we may derive under the SEZ legislation will be equivalent to the benefits we will be gradually losing under the existing tax holiday. Consequently, we expect that our tax rate in India and our overall tax rate will increase over the next few years and that such increase is likely to be material and is likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the transfer pricing arrangements we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate, our tax liability may increase. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, marketing, sales and delivery functions. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in other countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arms-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be substantially on arms-length terms. If, however, a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and determines that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, or that other income of our affiliates should be taxed in that jurisdiction, we may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flows. New tax legislation and the results of actions by taxing authorities may have an adverse effect on our operations and our overall tax rate. The Government of India may assert that certain of our clients have a permanent establishment in India by reason of the activities we perform on their behalf, particularly those clients that exercise control over or have substantial dependency on our services. Such an assertion could affect the size and scope of the services requested by such clients in the future. The Government of India has served notice on the Company about its potential liability, as a representative assessee of GE, for Indian tax upon GEs 2004 sale of shares of a predecessor of the Company. GE has challenged the positions of the Government of India in the Delhi High Court, naming Genpact India (one of the Companys subsidiaries) as necessary party but without seeking relief against Genpact India. We believe that if Indian tax were due upon that sale, it could not be successfully asserted against us as a representative assessee. Moreover, GE is obligated to indemnify us for any tax on its 2004 sale of shares. Although there can be no assurance that the Government of India would agree, we also believe that no Indian tax is due upon the sale of our shares in the IPO by our existing significant shareholders; that even if such a tax were due it could not be successfully asserted against us as a representative assessee of such a shareholder; and that we would have a statutory right under Indian law to recover any such tax from such a shareholder. We also believe that sales by non-Indian shareholders of our shares in the market generally will not be subject to Indian tax, provided that the selling shareholder is not otherwise subject to tax in India. The Government of India, or other jurisdictions, could enact new tax legislation which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our ability to repatriate surplus earnings from our Delivery Centers in a tax-efficient manner is dependent upon interpretations of local laws, possible changes in such laws and the renegotiation of existing double tax avoidance treaties. Changes to any of these may adversely affect our overall tax rate, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients in the United States. If events or conditions occur which adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We currently derive, and are likely to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from clients located in the United States. A number of factors could adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Since the end of 2008, the United States economy has been in a recession and undergoing a period of substantial economic uncertainty, resulting in credit market dislocations, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment. A continuing deterioration in economic activity in the United States could adversely affect demand for our services, thus reducing our revenue. We could also be affected by declines in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Indian rupee, in which we incur the majority of our costs, or other currencies in which we incur costs. We may also be adversely affected by the enactment of laws in the United States that impose restrictions on, or taxation or other financial penalties with respect to, offshore outsourcing. Future legislation in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability of our clients to utilize our services. The issue of companies outsourcing services to organizations operating in other countries is a topic of political discussion in many countries. For example, many organizations and public figures in the United States have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore service providers and the loss of jobs in the United States. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends toward offshore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that provide services from the United States. In the United States, measures aimed at limiting or restricting offshore outsourcing have been proposed. Such measures have been enacted in a few states and there is currently legislation pending in several states. The measures that have been enacted to date generally have restricted the ability of government entities to outsource work to offshore business process service providers and have not materially adversely affected our business, primarily because we do not currently work for such governmental entities and they are not currently a focus of our sales strategy. However, some legislative proposals would, for example, require call centers to disclose their geographic locations, require notice to individuals whose personal information is disclosed to non-U.S. affiliates or subcontractors, or limit eligibility for government contracts or financial incentives for companies that transfer work to foreign work locations. There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation in the United States that would significantly adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition will not be enacted. Legislation enacted in certain European jurisdictions and any future legislation in Europe, Japan or any other country in which we have clients restricting the performance of business process services from an offshore location could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, legislation enacted in the United Kingdom, based on the 1977 EC Acquired Rights Directive, which has been adopted in some form by many European Union, or EU, countries, provides that if a company outsources all or part of its business to a service provider or changes its current service provider, the affected employees of the company or of the previous service provider are entitled to become employees of the new service provider, generally on the same terms and conditions as their original employment. In addition, dismissals of employees who were employed by the company or the previous service provider immediately prior to that transfer are automatically considered unfair dismissals that entitle such employees to compensation. As a result, in order to avoid unfair dismissal claims we may have to offer, and become liable for, voluntary redundancy payments to the employees of our clients in the United Kingdom and other EU countries who have 28 Table of Contents adopted similar laws who outsource business to us. We believe that this legislation could materially affect our ability to obtain new business from companies in the EU and, after including the cost of the potential compensation paid for unfair dismissal claims or redundancies, to provide outsourced services to our current and future clients in the EU in a cost-effective manner. We may be unable to manage our growth effectively and maintain effective internal controls, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Since we became an independent company, we have experienced rapid growth and significant expansion and diversification of our operations, which has placed significant demands on our leadership teams time and our operational resources. From January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2009 our net revenues have grown at a compounded annual growth rate, or CAGR, of approximately 21.2% and similarly, our number of employees has grown at a CAGR of approximately 19.4%. There can be no assurance that our revenues will continue to grow as rapidly in the future or, if our revenues do grow, that our margins will also grow. In order to manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve operational systems, procedures and internal controls on a timely basis. If we fail to implement these systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis, we may not be able to retain clients or obtain new business, hire and retain new employees, complete future acquisitions or operate our business effectively. We may fail to attract and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations. Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled employees and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. Historically, high employee attrition has been common in our industry. See Item 1BusinessOur People. In 2009, our attrition rate for all employees who were employed for a day or more was approximately 23%. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce our level of attrition or even maintain our attrition rate at the 2009 level. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. Despite current economic conditions, competition for qualified employees, particularly in India and China, remains high and we expect such competition to continue. We compete for employees not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies. In many locations in which we operate, there is a limited pool of employees who have the skills and training needed to do our work. If our business continues to grow, the number of people we will need to hire will increase. We will also need to increase our hiring if we are not able to maintain our attrition rate through innovative recruiting and retention policies. Significant competition for employees could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our clients, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs. Wage increases in the countries in which we have operations may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margin. Salaries and related benefits of our employees are our most significant costs. Most of our employees are based in India and other countries in which wage levels have historically been significantly lower than wage levels in the United States and Western Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage levels for comparably skilled employees in most of the countries in which we operate have increased and further increases are expected at a faster rate than in the United States and Western Europe because of, among other reasons, faster economic growth, increased competition for skilled employees and increased demand for business process services. We will lose this competitive advantage to the extent that we are not able to control or share wage increases with our clients. Sharing wage increases may cause our clients to be less willing to utilize our services. In addition, wage increases may reduce our margins. We will attempt to control such costs by our efforts to add capacity in locations where we consider wage levels of skilled personnel to be satisfactory, but we may not be successful in doing so. We may need to increase our wage levels 29 Table of Contents significantly and rapidly in order to attract the quantity and quality of employees that are necessary for us to remain competitive, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also expect to increase the number of employees we have in the United States to higher levels than we have had historically, and this could have a negative effect on our profit margin. Currency exchange rate fluctuations in various currencies in which we do business, especially the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remaining amounts largely in euros, pounds sterling and Japanese yen. Most of our expenses are incurred and paid in Indian rupees, with the remaining amounts largely in U.S. dollars, Chinese renminbi, pounds sterling, euros, Guatemalan quetzal, Hungarian forints, Moroccan dirham, Philippine pesos, Australian dollars, Polish zloty, South African rand and Romania leu. As we expand our operations to new countries, we will incur expenses in other currencies. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates between the Indian rupee and other currencies in which we incur costs or receive revenues, on the one hand, and the U.S. dollar, on the other hand, have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. See