Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking terms such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, could, may, shall, will, would and variations of such words and similar expressions, or the negative of such words or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, which in some cases may be based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined under Item 1ARisk Factors in this Annual Report. These forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to: our ability to retain existing clients and contracts; our ability to win new clients and engagements; the expected value of the statements of work under our master service agreements; our beliefs about future trends in our market; political or economic instability in countries where we have operations; worldwide political, economic or business conditions; political, economic or business conditions where our clients operate; expected spending on business process and information technology services by clients; foreign currency exchange rates; our rate of employee attrition; our effective tax rate; and competition in our industry. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results include, among others: our ability to grow our business and effectively manage growth and international operations while maintaining effective internal controls; our dependence on revenues derived from clients in the United States and Europe; our ability to hire and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations; our ability to successfully consummate or integrate strategic acquisitions; Our relative dependence on the General Electric Company (GE); our dependence on favorable tax legislation and tax policies that may be amended in a manner adverse to us or be unavailable to us in the future; ii Table of Contents increases in wages in locations in which we have operations; financing terms, including, but not limited to, changes in LIBOR; restrictions on visas for our employees traveling to North America and Europe; our ability to maintain pricing and asset utilization rates; fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, the Euro, U.K. pound sterling, Chinese renminbi, Hungarian forint, Japanese yen, Indian rupee, Australian dollar, Philippines Peso, Guatemalan quetzal, Mexican peso, Moroccan dirham, Polish zloty, Romanian leu, South African rand, Hong Kong dollar, Singapore dollar, Arab Emirates dirham, Brazilian Real, Swiss Franc, Swedish krona, Danish krone, Thai baht, Kenyan shilling, Czech koruna, Canadian dollar and Saudi Arabian Riyal; our ability to retain senior management; the selling cycle for our client relationships; our ability to attract and retain clients and our ability to develop and maintain client relationships on attractive terms; legislation in the United States or elsewhere that adversely affects the performance of business process and technology management services offshore; increasing competition in our industry; telecommunications or technology disruptions or breaches, or natural or other disasters; our ability to protect our intellectual property and the intellectual property of others; further deterioration in the global economic environment and its impact on our clients, including the bankruptcy of our clients; regulatory, legislative and judicial developments, including the withdrawal of governmental fiscal incentives; the international nature of our business; technological innovation; our ability to derive revenues from new service offerings; and unionization of any of our employees. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable at the time they are made, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties, and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward looking statements. We are under no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Forms 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. iii Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are a global leader in business process management and information technology services, leveraging the power of smarter processes, smarter analytics and smarter technology to help our clients drive intelligence across their enterprises. We believe our Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ) framework, our unique science of process combined with deep domain expertise in multiple industry verticals, leads to superior business outcomes. Our Smart Decision Services deliver valuable business insights to our clients through targeted analytics, re-engineering expertise, and advanced risk management. Making technology more intelligent by embedding it with process and data insights, we also offer a wide range of technology services. Driven by a passion for process innovation and operational excellence built on our Lean and Six Sigma DNA and the legacy of serving GE for more than 15 years, our 60,000+ professionals around the globe deliver services to more than 700 clients from a network of more than 70 delivery centers across 18 countries supporting more than 30 languages. In 2012, we had net revenues of $1.9 billion, of which approximately 74% was from clients other than GE, which we refer to as Global Clients. We have a unique heritage and believe we are pioneers in the business process management and information technology services industry. We built our business by meeting the demands of the leaders of GE to increase the productivity of their businesses. We began in 1997 as an internal business process services operation for General Electric Capital Corporation, or GE Capital, GEs financial services business. As we demonstrated our value to GE management, our business grew in size and scope. We took on a wide range of complex and critical processes and became a significant provider to many of GEs businesses, including Consumer Finance (GE Money), Commercial Finance, Healthcare, Industrial and GEs corporate offices. Our leadership team, our methods and our culture have been deeply influenced by our eight years as an internal operation of GE. Many elements of GEs successthe rigorous use of metrics and analytics, the relentless focus on improvement, a strong emphasis on the client and innovative human resources practicesare the foundations of our business. Our business was initially conducted through various entities and divisions of GE. In 2004, GE placed these operations under a newly formed Luxembourg company and sold indirect interests in us to General Atlantic LLC, or General Atlantic, and Oak Hill Capital Partners, or Oak Hill. In 2007, we became a Bermuda company named Genpact Limited and completed our initial public offering. In 2012, General Atlantic and Oak Hill sold the majority of their interests in us to affiliates of Bain Capital Investors, LLC, or Bain Capital. As of December 31, 2012, Bain Capital owned approximately 26% of our outstanding equity. We use the terms Genpact, Company, we and us to refer to both our predecessor company and its subsidiaries, and Genpact Limited and its subsidiaries. Our registered office is located at Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 12, Bermuda. Our Solution Our vision is to be the global leader in helping businesses make smarter decisions and realize better business outcomes through a continuum of process, analytics and technology. We seek to build long-term client relationships with companies that wish to improve the ways in which they do business and to whom we can offer a full range of services. With our broad and deep capabilities and our global delivery platform, our goal is to deliver comprehensive solutions and continuous process improvement to clients around the world and across multiple industries. Our Expertise Our business increasingly focuses on industry verticals in banking and insurance, capital markets, consumer goods and retail, life sciences (pharmaceuticals), infrastructure, manufacturing and services, and healthcare. 1 Table of Contents Our offerings in these core vertical activities are driven by our broad end-to-end process expertise, which includes: finance and accounting services; Smart Decision Services, including analytics and research, business consulting, enterprise risk consulting and re-engineering; supply chain and procurement services; enterprise application services; IT management services; and collections and customer services. We seek to deliver significant business impact for our clients by redesigning and operating a combination of processes, as well as providing multiple services that combine elements of several of our service offerings. In offering services across our global delivery platform, we draw on core capabilities in process expertise, analytical ability and technology expertise, as well as the operational insight we have acquired from our experience in managing thousands of processes for our clients. Process Expertise. We have extensive experience in operating a wide range of processes and have used this expertise to develop SEP SM . We believe we are building the science of process through SEP SM which is a unique, scientific, and highly granular approach to managing business processes. In addition to efficiency, it focuses on maximizing process effectiveness, which can deliver up to five times the end business outcomes, such as cash flow and margins, when compared to processes that run at average or below. We also apply the principles of Six Sigma and Lean to eliminate defects and variation and reduce inefficiency. Through our Six Sigma and Lean process rigor we also develop and track operational metrics to measure process performance as a means of monitoring service levels and enhancing productivity. Analytical and Research Capabilities. Our analytical and research capabilities are central to our ability to improve business processes. They enable us to work with our clients and identify weaknesses in business processes and redesign and re-engineer them to create additional business value. The confluence of big data, regulatory changes and social media are causing a major shift in the way businesses operate. We help our clients harness data to identify trends and issues, uncover new insights, identify and prevent future risks and fine-tune operations to make smarter decisions and meet business goals. We also rigorously apply analytical methodologies, which we use to measure and enhance performance of our client services. In addition, we apply these methodologies to measure and improve our own internal functions, including recruitment and retention of personnel. Technology Expertise. Our information technology expertise includes extensive knowledge of third-party hardware, network and computing infrastructure, and enterprise resource planning and other software applications. We also use technology to better manage the transition of processes, to automate and operate processes more efficiently and to replace or redesign processes to enhance productivity. Our ability to combine our business process and IT expertise, along with our Six Sigma and Lean skills, allows us to ensure our clients achieve the full potential of business intelligence platforms and web-based software platforms. Operational Insight. Our operational insight enables us to make the best use of our core capabilities. Operational insight starts with the ability to understand the business context of a process. We place great value on understanding not only the industry in which a client operates, but also the business culture and institutional parameters within which a process is operated. Operational insight is also the judgment to determine the best way to improve a process in light of the knowledge of best practices across different industries, as well as an appreciation of what solutions can be fully implemented in the context of the particular business environment. 2 Table of Contents Our Strategic Client Model We seek to create long-term relationships with our clients where they view us as an integral part of their organization and not just as a service provider. These relationships often begin with the outsourcing of discrete processes or with shorter-cycle Smart Decision Services engagements in analytics and research, business consulting, enterprise risk consulting or re-engineering. Over time, these relationships expand to encompass multiple business processes across a broader set of functions and geographic areas. No matter how large or small the engagement, we strive to be a seamless extension of our clients operations. To achieve this goal, we developed the Genpact Virtual Captive SM model for service delivery, and we may implement all or some of its features in any given client relationship, depending on the clients needs. Under this approach, we provide a client with dedicated employees and management as well as dedicated infrastructure at our delivery centers to create a virtual extension of the clients own team and environment. We train our personnel in the clients culture so that they are familiar not only with the process but with the business environment in which it is being executed. Our Global Delivery Platform We have a global network of more than 70 delivery centers in 18 countries. Our Delivery Centers are located in India, Brazil, China, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Guatemala, Hungary, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, Morocco, the Philippines, Poland, the Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates and the United States. Our presence in locations around the world provides us with multi-lingual capabilities, access to a larger talent pool, near-shoring capabilities to take advantage of time zones, as well as the ability to provide services from the United States. With this network, we can manage complex processes in multiple geographic regions. We use different locations for different types of services depending on the specific client needs and the mix of skills and cost of employees available in each location. We have been a pioneer in our industry in opening centers in several cities in India as well as in some of the other countries in which we operate and become an employer of choice in those locations. We expect to continue to expand our global footprint in order to better serve our clients. We also have a number of employees who work directly in client locations or provide services from a virtual environment which offers flexibility for both clients and employees. Our People and Culture We have an experienced and cohesive leadership team. Many members of our leadership team developed their management skills working within GE and many of them were involved in the founding of our business. They have built our business based on the experience gained in helping GE meet a wide range of challenges. As a result, we are an institutional embodiment of much of the wisdom and experience GE developed in improving and managing its own business processes. We have created, and constantly reinforced, a culture that emphasizes teamwork, constant improvement of our processes and, most importantly, dedication to the client. A key determinant of our success, especially as we continue to increase the scale of our business, is our ability to attract, hire, train and retain employees in highly competitive labor markets. We manage this challenge through innovative human resource practices. These include broadening the employee pool by opening delivery centers in diverse locations, using innovative recruiting techniques to attract the best employees, emphasizing ongoing training, instilling a vibrant and distinctive culture and providing well-defined long term career paths. We also have programs modeled on GE management training programs to develop the next generation of leaders and managers of our business. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 60,200 employees including over 11,300 employees with Six Sigma green-belt training and over 610 employees with Six Sigma black-belt training, as well as more than 32,800 Lean trained employees. This large number of employees with Six Sigma and Lean training helps infuse our organization with a disciplined, analytical approach to everything we do. We monitor and manage our attrition rate very closely, and believe our attrition rate is one of the lowest in the industry. We attribute this to our reputation, our ability to attract high quality applicants, our emphasis on maintaining our culture and the breadth of exposure, experience and opportunity for advancement that we provide to our employees. 3 Table of Contents Our Strategy The specific elements of our strategy include the following: Guide Global Enterprises to Best-in-Class Our Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ) framework, built on the foundation of thousands of Lean Six Sigma-based improvement ideas and benchmarks around granular process performance, builds deeper client relationships and delivers measurable business impact over time. Our differentiated framework is critical not only to extending client contracts but also creating an expansive, partnership with our clients. Invest In and Build Targeted Vertical Industry and Domain Expertise Clients want partners who know their industry and processes at a granular level. We are enhancing our industry and domain capabilities through acquisitions and by investing in experienced professionals in our targeted verticals to improve client intimacy and help us deliver end-to-end services that drive business impact. Combine Data Analytics, Process Expertise and Technology Solutions Clients face an environment of uncertainty and change, which requires them to better leverage existing costs and investments, and make more informed decisions that address challenges around regulations and risk, while they continue to drive top-line growth and profitability. The insights we can derive from our experience and expertise, combining smarter processes, analytics and technology, help us provide a differentiating solution to these challenges. Expand Geographically in our Markets and Delivery Capabilities We deliver our services and solutions from 18 countries including eight locations in the United States. We continue to expand and diversify our delivery capabilities in order to be closer to our clients, particularly as the nature of our work becomes increasingly complex. Our Services The services we provide often draw on processes and platforms from several of our service offerings. We understand that the senior management of our clients are focused on achieving business outcomes, rather than on transferring particular processes or employing particular platforms. Therefore, we focus on understanding the business needs of our clients and the business context of existing processes in order to design appropriate and comprehensive solutions for our clients. Our core vertical activities for our clients include the following: Banking and Insurance . Our banking and insurance services include application processing; underwriting; claims management; mortgage orientation and servicing; payment and booking; collections and customer services; commercial leasing and fraud and risk analysis. We offer insurance services to three industry sectorslife and annuities, property and casualty, and healthand provide what we refer to as a virtual insurance company for our clients in the insurance industry. We cover many phases of insurance business processes including product development, sales and marketing and policy administration. We use our analytics capabilities to help our clients devise new models for underwriting, risk management and actuarial analysis. We also handle reporting and monitoring services for regulatory compliance, portfolio and performance review services and financial planning and tax services. Capital Markets . Our capital markets practice provides an end-to-end range of information technology services for the capital markets industry, including application development and maintenance; managed services such as quality assurance, testing and production support; domain knowledge-based consulting 4 Table of Contents related to technology systems (domain consulting); and consulting not tied to a technology system (business consulting). Areas of domain focus within our capital markets practice include asset and wealth management; risk and compliance; derivatives (listed and over-the-counter); and data services, such as reference data and data scrubbing and reconciliation. We have also set up centers of excellence focusing on several technology platforms used by the financial services industry, including platforms focused on brokerage compliance, trade processing and portfolio accounting. Consumer Goods and Retail . Our consumer goods and retail services include product costing; trade promotion analytics and management; retail execution, including planogram, assortment planning and SKU optimization; and market mix modeling. We help design and implement learning products, including mobile and classroom learning. We assist clients with product news and create sales tools, including value calculators and sales support tools. We also help clients manage risks from product profit volatility. Life Sciences . Our life sciences/pharmaceutical services include medical documentation; regulatory submission and compliance; medical contact centers; patient level data analysis; physician and drug analysis; and sales force management and effectiveness. We assist life sciences clients with product news, sales tools, telemarketing strategies and customer relationship management. Infrastructure, Manufacturing and Services . Our manufacturing services include contract warranty management; modeling and drafting; engineering analysis; product regulatory compliance; value engineering; reverse engineering; reliability analysis; and manufacturing engineering. We provide service planning and forecasting services, helpdesk services, field service, parts and project management services and customer loyalty services. Healthcare . Our healthcare services include payer solutions, including claims management, membership management, health economics and pharmacy benefits management; provider solutions, including hospital facilities optimization, medical coding and patient administration; and medical device solutions, including sales force optimization, market research and analytics, pricing analytics and after-market servicing, maintenance and inventory. In addition to these vertical activities, our broad end-to-end process expertise spans a number of service areas, including finance and accounting services, Smart Decision Services which are comprised of analytics and research, business consulting, enterprise risk consulting and re-engineering supply chain and procurement services, enterprise application services, IT management services and collections and customer services. Finance and Accounting We are one of the worlds premier providers of finance and accounting services. Our finance and accounting services include accounts payable services, payment and inquiry management; order to cash services, including customer master setup, credit check, contract administration, order management, billing, cash application, deductions and exception management, reporting and analytics and collection and dispute resolution services; core accounting services, including preparation of International Financial Reporting Standards, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) and SEC-compliant financial statements; and closing and reporting, cash management, treasury, cash flow analysis, tax return preparation, financial planning and analysis, governance and internal controls services. Our services combine our process expertise with strong technology capabilities, including decision support tools such as Hyperion, SAS and Cognos, and platform support for ERP systems such as Oracle and SAP and new technology bundling such as OCR and invoice exchange. Smart Decision Services Our Smart Decision Services include analytics and research, business consulting, enterprise risk consulting and re-engineering. 5 Table of Contents Analytics and research. In addition to incorporating analytics into our other service offerings, analytics is its own service offering and we believe we are a leader in the analytics area. Our clients frequently have data that can be used to assess business opportunities, mitigate risks, improve performance or otherwise help their businesses. However, they do not always recognize the potential in such data or do not have the capability to apply the rigorous analytical models that might reveal opportunities. Drawing on considerable domain expertise and sophisticated research science, we help clients make fact-based decisions for superior results. By quantitatively and qualitatively scrutinizing data, we can deliver the insight necessary to assess a new business opportunity, mitigate market risks, or retain and build market share. In our view, almost any data, properly broken down and interpreted, can improve performance. Business consulting and enterprise risk consulting . Our business consulting and enterprise risk consulting services include internal audit services, Sarbanes-Oxley compliance advisory services, regulatory advisory services, and enterprise, IT and fraud risk management services. Re-engineering . Our re-engineering services help clients realize cost savings or increased revenues by improving processes that are underperforming or designing processes that are needed to meet growth objectives. Clients engage our re-engineering teams to provide an end-to-end view of their organization and help determine business process needs at a strategic level as well as at the execution level. Strategically, we help clients achieve a comprehensive assessment of how well their enterprise-level processes such as source-to-pay, order-to-cash, record-to-report, inquiry-to-order, new product introduction and sales force effectiveness perform against industry benchmarks and best practices. At the execution level, we institutionalize the recommendations by deploying resources to train the client team and drive sustainable best practices. Supply Chain and Procurement Our supply chain and procurement services include direct and indirect sourcing and procurement services, demand forecasting and management services, engineering services, inventory optimization and planning services, fleet and logistics services and aftermarket services. This often includes designing sourcing and procurement processes to reduce operational costs, overhauling inventory planning systems to optimize inventory levels and improve fulfillment levels, designing and implementing logistics services that integrate disparate technology systems and provide dynamic digital dashboard reporting, or designing after-market service systems that ensure fulfillment of contractual obligations and improved service productivity. We commonly utilize our technology expertise in delivering our services in this area particularly in automating order management processes and monitoring and optimizing supply chain logistics. We have competency in many of the custom platforms used by our clients (e.g., i2, Manugistics and Xelus) and are not tied to any one platform. This enables us to utilize and design the best processes for our clients based on available systems. Enterprise Application Services With our enterprise application services, we plan, design, build, test, implement, run and support software solutions for our clients. We leverage our functional and domain knowledge and use Six Sigma and Lean principles to reduce the cycle time of software implementations. This can include enterprise resource planning, or ERP, supply chain management, financial management and customer relationship management solutions, securities trading and accounting, as well as testing, database administration and architecture services. We also have significant expertise in Hyperion, SAS and Cognos, and platform support for ERP systems such as Oracle, SAP and Microsoft. IT Management Services Our IT management services consist of the onsite and remote monitoring, management and support of the IT functions and IT infrastructures of our clients. This includes management of a clients data centers, servers, storage, emails, networks services, security services, production support, identity management and database 6 Table of Contents management. We use a network of Remote Operations Centers to provide 24/7 infrastructure monitoring and management. Along with ITIL (ISO 20000), we use Six Sigma and Lean principles to address technology problems and to enable our clients to align their IT to business priorities and at the same time reduce technology costs. We use our SEP SM framework Service Disruption to Restore (D2R) to continuously reduce defects and create business priority outcomes. We also provide cloud enablement services, ITIL implementation services and comprehensive business process as a service, or BPaaS, services. Collections and Customer Services Our collections and customer services are provided primarily in the areas of consumer finance, business to business collections and mortgage services. Our collections services include a full range of accounts receivable management services, such as early to late stage collections, skip-tracing, refunds and other specialized services. In our collections services, we act as an agent; we do not acquire debts for our own account. Our customer services include account servicing and customer care services such as handling customer queries, general servicing and dispute resolution. We provide voice and non-voice services. We also provide origination and order management services. We set forth below a table showing our net revenues in 2012 attributable to our three principal service offerings. Year ended December 31, 2012 Net revenues (dollars in millions) As a Percentage of Net revenues Types of Services Business Process Management (other than SDS) $ 1,154.8 60.7 % Smart Decision Services 301.3 15.8 % Information Technology Services 445.8 23.4 % Total $ 1,902.0 100.0 % Smart Enterprise Processes (SEP SM ) SEP SM is a unique, scientific, and highly granular approach to managing business processes. In addition to efficiency, it focuses on maximizing process effectiveness, which can deliver up to five times the end business outcomes, like cash flow and margins, when compared to processes that run at average or below. SEP SM is based on work done in the Genpact Process Innovation Lab, where we have leveraged our database of over 200 million transactions to map and analyze end-to-end processes at a granular level. This enables us to test the effectiveness of a clients processes by measuring points of leakage and applying best-in-class benchmarks from within and across industries. The result is a client-specific road map for maximizing process effectiveness. Benefits are delivered by combining Genpacts deep domain knowledge of process, key insights and best practices with execution support including focused IT applications and technology, targeted analytics, re-engineering and global delivery services. Unlike other approaches, SEP SM focuses on measuring business outcomes such as cash flow and margins, which make visible the effectiveness of a process in driving business results. The approach also takes an end-to-end, enterprise-wide view, working beyond traditional organizational silos. Six Sigma and Lean Methodologies Our GE heritage taught us the importance of the principles of Six Sigma and Lean in refining business processes. Six Sigma is a method for improving quality by removing variation, defects and their causes in business process activities. Applying Six Sigma principles involves the application of a number of sub-methodologies, including DMAIC (define, measure, analyze, improve and control), which is a system for incremental improvement in existing processes, and DMADV (define, measure, analyze, design and verify), which is a system used to develop new processes at Six Sigma quality levels. 7 Table of Contents We have Six Sigma programs that train, test and grade employees in Six Sigma principles and award them Six Sigma qualifications. The rankings of Six Sigma qualifications from lowest to highest are green belt, black belt and master black belt. As of December 31, 2012, we had more than 11,300 employees with Six Sigma green belt training and 610 employees with Six Sigma black belt training, as well as more than 32,800 Lean-trained employees. Unlike many of our competitors who have a relatively small number of Six Sigma-trained employees, we have a large number of Six Sigma green belts and black belts and therefore we can provide our clients with dedicated Six Sigma-trained personnel who can help the clients achieve continuous process improvement on a full-time basis. Lean is a methodology for measuring and reducing waste or inefficiency in a process. Among other things, it is designed to measure and eliminate overproduction, over-processing and waiting, and to improve the flow of a process. Lean tools and methods are easy to learn and simple to implement and lend themselves to being implemented by associates on the production floor, thus making it valuable across the company. We constantly measure the performance of each process we manage for our clients and we work with our clients to develop customized reporting systems so that they have real time access to key metrics. We also apply these principles to our own internal processes in order to deliver efficient operations for our clients. Our expertise in applying Six Sigma and Lean methodologies is one of the key factors that distinguish us from our competitors. Set forth below is a graphic illustration of how we apply our expertise to deliver transformational results for our clients. Our Clients Our clients include some of the best known companies in the world, many of which are leaders in their respective industries. GE has been our largest client since our inception and we benefit from a long-term contract whereby GE has committed to purchase stipulated minimum dollar amounts of services through 2016. GE accounted for approximately 26.1% of our revenues in fiscal 2012. We currently provide services to all of GEs business units including GE Capital, GE Energy Infrastructure and GE Technology Infrastructure as well as to GEs corporate head office. The services we currently provide to GE are broad in their nature and are drawn from all of our service offerings. Although we have a single master services agreement, or MSA, with GE, we have a large number of statements of work, or SOWs, with GE. Currently, as a general matter, each GE business 8 Table of Contents unit makes its own decisions as to whether to enter into a SOW with us and as to the terms of any such SOW. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, our revenues from GE are generally attributable to a number of different businesses each with its own leader responsible for decision-making regarding outsourcing. We have over 700 clients spread across a variety of industries and geographies. Our net revenues from Global Clients have grown rapidly in the last five years, from $340.4 million in 2007 to $1.4 billion in 2012. Our net revenues from Global Clients as a percentage of total net revenues increased from approximately 41% in 2007 to approximately 74% in 2012. The 2012 net revenues from Global Clients include $0.7 million for businesses that were part of GE in 2011. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsClassification of Certain Net Revenues. The majority of our Global Clients are based in the United States, and we also have Global Clients in Europe, Asia and Australia. Our contracts with our clients generally take the form of an MSA, which is a framework agreement that is then supplemented by SOWs. Our MSAs specify the general terms applicable to the services we will provide. For a discussion of the components of our MSAs and SOWs, see Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewRevenues. Our clients include AstraZeneca, Cigna, GE, Genworth Financial, GlaxoSmithKline, Heineken, Hyatt, Information Resources, Inc., Ironshore, Johnson Controls, Inc., Kimberly-Clark, National Australia Bank, Nissan, Staples, Symantec, United Biscuits, Walgreens, Wells Fargo and Zimmer. Our People Our people are critical to the success of our business. Our Chief Executive Officer and other members of our senior leadership team have been involved in our business since its commencement under GE. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 60,200 employees worldwide, including more than 11,300 employees with Six Sigma green-belt training, over 610 employees with Six Sigma black-belt training and more than 32,800 Lean trained employees. Recruiting We face meaningful competition for skilled employees. We have developed a number of innovative methods to recruit sufficiently skilled employees. In particular, we seek to widen the available talent pool by recruiting aggressively in places where there is less competition. We also hire people who do not have prior experience or training and use our extensive training capability to equip them with the skills they need to be effective. Some measures we use include the following: In 2008, we formed a joint venture with NIIT to create a training organization designed to address the increasing demand for skilled workers in the business process management & information technology services industries. We have opened delivery centers in cities that are considered less developed. There is often less competition for available talent in less developed cities although we have found the pool of well-trained applicants to be comparable to larger metropolitan cities. We work with universities and educational institutions in order to build an appropriate curriculum with the aim that graduates in the applicable cities will have the skills they need to be effective Genpact employees and to increase our visibility on campus. We have six storefront premises in India that we use for recruiting. In 2012, approximately 6% of our new hires were recruited through these storefront locations. 9 Table of Contents We actively encourage our existing employees to refer new candidates to us, and we provide existing employees with monetary bonuses when such referrals result in new hires. In 2012, approximately 28% of our new hires in India were referrals. Training and Development We believe in extensive and continuous training of our employees. We have the infrastructure to train approximately 4,000 people at any one time with over 230 trainers. In 2012, we had more than 13,200 employees enrolled in part-time professional degree, e-learning and other non-degree programs provided internally or by universities and other third parties. Our training programs are designed to transfer the industry specific knowledge and experience of our industry leaders to our employees to ensure we maintain our deep process and domain expertise across the industries and processes in which we work. Our training programs cover a large number of topics, including specific service offerings, key technical and IT skills, our different clients workplace cultures and Six Sigma and Lean methodologies. A large part of our continuous training is designed to impart the skills and knowledge required by our employees to move to positions of increasing responsibility within Genpact. We also have programs modeled on GE management training programs to develop the next generation of leaders and managers of our business. We run these programs for employees at various levels of management, including front-line managers, and middle and senior management. We are working with universities, colleges, governments and private institutes in some of the countries we operate in to develop talent supply-chains. We are seeking to ensure the continued availability of skilled workers in the countries we operate in. Retention In order to meet our growth and service commitments, we are constantly striving to attract and retain employees. There is significant turnover of employees in the business process outsourcing and information technology sectors generally, particularly in India where the majority of our employees are currently based. Our attrition rate for all employees who have been employed by us for one day or more was 25% in 2012. A number of our competitors calculate employee attrition rates for their Indian employees who have been employed for six months or more. On this basis our Indian employee attrition rate for 2012 would be approximately 24%, which we believe is relatively low for our industry based on statistics published by industry associations such as NASSCOM. We attribute this low attrition rate to a number of factors including our effective recruiting measures, extensive training and a strong culture of providing opportunities for growth and learning. Approximately 16% of our employees were promoted in 2012 and we filled a majority of new positions internally. We also take aggressive action to monitor and minimize potential attrition. Using Six Sigma principles we have developed an early warning system that tracks employees and gives us an insight into which employees are most likely to resign. These employees are automatically highlighted to management who can take action such as relocating the employee or enrolling the employee in continuing education programs to reduce the possibility and impact of such a resignation. As another measure designed to minimize attrition, we follow the practice of right-skilling our employees to the tasks assigned to them. This means that we match the level of services required to the experience and qualification of the employee concerned and we avoid having over-qualified people in any particular job. This allows us to give our highly qualified and experienced people higher-value jobs and, coupled with the practice of up-skilling, ensures better career paths for all of our employees. Corporate Social Responsibility Caring@Genpact is our platform for giving back to the communities in which we live and work. Our employees form the foundation of this platform and utilize their skills to engage with the communities around them. They educate children and young adults, donate blood and stem cells, volunteer in orphanages and homes for the elderly and seek to neutralize their carbon footprint by planting trees. 10 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing We market our services to both existing and potential clients through our business development team. Members of this team are based around the globe, including in the United States, Europe, Australia, Asia, South America, the Middle East and South Africa, and dedicate their time to expanding the services we provide to our existing clients as well as acquiring new clients. We have a rigorous cross-selling program to leverage capabilities across all of our functions for our existing clients and the clients we gained through our acquisitions. We have designated global relationship managers for each of our strategic relationships. The relationship manager is supported by process improvement, quality, transition, finance, human resources, information technology and industry/product subject matter expert teams to ensure the best possible solution is provided to our clients. We constantly measure our client satisfaction levels to ensure that we maintain high service levels for each client, using measures such as the Net Promoter Score (NPS). Our sales force is organized by industry vertical teams that are supported by horizontal product offerings. The length of our selling cycle varies depending on the type of engagement. The sales cycle for project work is much shorter than the sales cycle for a large business process engagement. Our efforts may begin in response to our lead generation program, a perceived opportunity, a reference by an existing client, a request for proposal, an introduction by one of our directors or otherwise. In addition to our business development personnel, the sales effort involves people from the relevant service areas, people familiar with that prospective clients industry, business leaders and Six Sigma resources. We may expend substantial time and capital in securing new business. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewRevenues. As our relationship with a client grows, the time required to win an engagement for additional services often gradually declines. In addition, as we become more knowledgeable about a clients business and processes, our ability to identify opportunities to create value for the client typically increases. For example, productivity benefits and greater business impact can often be achieved by applying our SEP methodology, by focusing on processes that are upstream or downstream from the processes we initially handle, or by applying our analytical and IT capabilities to re-engineer processes. In addition, clients often become more willing over time to turn over more complex and critical processes to us as we demonstrate our capabilities. We also try to foster relationships between our senior leadership team and our clients senior management. These C-level relationships ensure that both parties are focused on establishing priorities, aligning objectives and driving client value from the top down. High-level executive relationships have been particularly constructive as a means of increasing business from our existing clients. It also provides us with a forum for addressing client concerns. Our governance methodology ensures that we are well connected at all levels of our clients organizations (executive, management and operations). We follow a rigorous review process to evaluate all new business. This is to ensure that all new business fits with our pricing and service objectives. This process starts with the presentation of new business to our deal review committee which is comprised of members of our senior leadership team along with operations people and members of our finance department. This committee applies a set of well-developed criteria to review the key terms of that new business. If, as a result of the review, the committee concludes that the new business is potentially attractive and a good use of our resources, then our business development team is authorized to pursue the opportunity. Prior to executing any contract in respect of new business, our deal review committee meets again to review the client relationship and to confirm that the terms of the new business continue to meet our criteria. Delivery Centers We commenced business in 1997 in Gurgaon, India. Since then we have established global delivery capabilities consisting of more than 70 delivery centers in 18 countries (not including our employees who are onsite at our clients premises). We choose the location of our delivery centers based on a number of factors 11 Table of Contents which include the available talent pool, infrastructure, government support and operating costs, as well as client demand. We were one of the first companies in our industry to move into some of our locations including Dalian, Foshan and Huaquio in China; Budapest, Hungary; Bucharest, Romania; and Gurgaon, Jaipur and Kolkata in India. We aim to be continuously connected with our clients requirements so that we are ready to serve their needs. We constantly evaluate new locations, including new countries and new cities within countries in which we currently operate, for new delivery centers and offices. The large number of different countries from which we service our clients differentiates us from a number of our competitors and enables us to take advantage of different languages and time-zones which, in turn, enhances our ability to service Global Clients. As of December 31, 2012, we provided services in more than 30 languages. Some of our clients also contract with us for additional redundancy and back-up protections. Intellectual Property We develop intellectual property in the course of our business and our MSAs with our clients regulate the ownership of such intellectual property. We regularly apply for patents, trademarks, copyrights and domain names. Some of our intellectual property rights are trade secrets and relate to proprietary business process enhancements. At times, we use third-party software platforms and the software systems of our clients to provide our services. Our MSAs with our clients normally include a license to use the clients proprietary systems to provide our services. Clients authorize us to access and use third party software licenses held by the client so that we may provide our services. It is our practice to enter into agreements with our employees that: ensure that all new intellectual property developed in the course of our employees employment is assigned to us; provide for employees cooperation in intellectual property protection matters even if they no longer work for us; and include a confidentiality undertaking by our employees. Competition We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving global market. We have a number of competitors offering services that are the same as or similar to ours. Our competitors include: large multinational service providers, such as Accenture Ltd and International Business Machines Corporation; companies that are primarily business process service providers operating from low-cost countries, most commonly India, such as WNS Holdings Limited and ExlService Holdings, Inc.; companies that are primarily information technology service providers with some business process service capabilities, such as Infosys Technologies Limited, Cognizant Technology Solutions, Tata Consultancy Services Limited and Wipro Limited; and smaller, niche service providers that provide services in a specific geographic market, industry or service area. In addition, a client or potential client may choose not to outsource its business, including by setting up captive outsourcing operations or by performing formerly outsourced services for themselves. 12 Table of Contents Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our industry include: skills and capabilities of people; ability to add value, including through continuous process improvement; reputation and client references; price; technical and industry expertise; scope of services; quality of services and solutions; ability to sustain long-term client relationships; and global reach and scale. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis. Regulation We are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions around the world as a result of the complexity of our operations and services, including at the federal, state and local level, particularly in the countries where we have operations and where we deliver services. We are also subject to regulation by regional bodies such as the European Union. In addition, the terms of our service contracts typically require that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. In some contracts, we are required to comply even if such laws and regulations apply to our clients, but not to us. In other service contracts our clients undertake the responsibility to inform us about laws and regulations that may apply to us in jurisdictions in which they are located. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we may be restricted in our ability to provide services, and may also be the subject of civil or criminal actions involving penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our clients generally have the right to terminate our contracts for cause in the event of regulatory failures, subject to notice periods. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessAny failures to adhere to the regulations that govern our business could result in our being unable to effectively perform our services. Failure to adhere to regulations that govern our clients businesses could result in breaches of contract under our MSAs. In the United States, we are subject to laws and regulations arising out of our work for clients operating there, especially in the area of banking, financial services and insurance, such as the Financial Modernization Act (sometimes referred to as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the USA Patriot Act, the Bank Service Company Act, the Home Owners Loan Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the Troubled Assets Relief Program as well as regulation by U.S. agencies such as the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision. We are also subject to regulation under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, the Communications Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act and applicable regulations in the area of health and other personal information that we process as part of our services. 13 Table of Contents Because of our debt collections work in the United States, we are also regulated by laws such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act and the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act and underlying regulations. We are currently licensed to engage in debt collection activities in all jurisdictions in the United States. We are subject to laws in the United States, the United Kingdom and the EU that are intended to limit the impact of outsourcing on employees in those countries. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessFuture legislation in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly impact the ability of our clients to utilize our services. We are also subject to laws and regulations on direct marketing, such as the Telemarketing Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act and the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and rules promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission, and the CAN-SPAM Act. We are subject to laws and regulations governing foreign trade, such as the Arms Export Control Act, as well as by government bodies such as the Commerce Departments Bureau of Industry and Security, the State Departments Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control. We benefit from tax relief provided by laws and regulations in India, China, Colombia, the Philippines, Morocco, and Guatemala. The Indian Special Economic Zones Act of 2005, or SEZ legislation, introduced a tax holiday in certain situations for operations established in designated special economic zones, or SEZs. The SEZ tax benefits are available only for new business operations that are conducted at qualifying SEZ locations. We do not presently know what percentage of our operations or income in India or other jurisdictions in future years will be eligible for a tax holiday. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewIncome Taxes. In addition to the tax holidays described above, certain benefits are also available to us under certain Indian state laws. These benefits include rebates and waivers in relation to payments for the transfer or registration of property (including for the purchase or lease of premises), waivers of conversion fees for land, exemption from state pollution control requirements, entry tax exemptions, labor law exemptions and commercial usage of electricity. Our hedging activities and currency transfer are restricted by regulations in certain countries, including India, Romania and China. Certain Bermuda Law Considerations As a Bermuda company, we are also subject to regulation in Bermuda. Among other things, we must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act regulating the payment of dividends and the making of distributions from contributed surplus. We are classified as a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Pursuant to our non-resident status, we may engage in transactions in currencies other than Bermuda dollars. There are no restrictions on our ability to transfer funds in and out of Bermuda or to pay dividends to United States residents that are holders of our common shares. Under Bermuda law, exempted companies are companies formed for the purpose of conducting business outside Bermuda from a principal place of business in Bermuda. As an exempted company, we may not, without a license granted by the Minister of Finance, participate in certain business transactions, including transactions involving Bermuda landholding rights and the carrying on of business of any kind for which we are not licensed in Bermuda. Available Information We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC, copies of which can be obtained from the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 14 Table of Contents The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge on our website, www.genpact.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Executive Officers The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers as of February 15, 2013: Name Age Position(s) N.V. Tyagarajan 51 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Mohit Bhatia 48 Chief Financial Officer Patrick Cogny 46 Senior Vice President, Infrastructure, Manufacturing and Services Victor Guaglianone 57 Senior Vice President and General Counsel Piyush Mehta 44 Senior Vice President, Human Resources Arvinder Singh 48 Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing, Client Relationships and Re-engineering Mohit Thukral 47 Senior Vice President, Banking, Financial Services, Insurance and Healthcare N.V. Tyagarajan has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since June 2011. From February 2009 to June 2011, he was our Chief Operating Officer. From February 2005 to February 2009, he was our Executive Vice President and Head of Sales, Marketing and Business Development. From October 2002 to January 2005, he was Senior Vice President, Quality and Global Operations, for GEs Commercial Equipment Finance division. Between 1999 and 2002, he served as our Chief Executive Officer. Mohit Bhatia has served as our Chief Financial Officer since March 2010. From December 2004 to February 2010, he was Senior Vice President and Business Leader for our finance and accounting practice. From October 2003 to December 2004 he served as our Chief Financial Officer. Patrick Cogny has served as our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing and Services since September 2011. From 2005 to August 2011, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Genpact Europe. Prior to this, he spent 15 years working for GE in the Healthcare business and in the GE Europe corporate headquarters, in France, the United States and Belgium. Victor Guaglianone has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary since January 2007. From 2004 to 2007, he was senior counsel at Holland & Knight LLP. From 2003 to 2004, he served as a commercial arbitrator for the American Arbitration Association. Prior to 2003, he spent 16 years at GE Capital, most recently as Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Piyush Mehta has served as our Senior Vice President of Human Resources since March 2005. He has worked for us since 2001 as Vice President of Human Resources. Arvinder Singh has served as our Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing, Client Relationships and Re-engineering since August 2011. From August 2008 until July 2011, he was Global Head of Client Relationships and GE. From June 2005 to August 2008 he was the Business Leader for Lean Six Sigma, Transitions and Solutions. Prior to joining Genpact in June 2005 he was Senior Vice President, Six Sigma and Chief Quality Officer for GE Vendor Financial Services. Mohit Thukral has served as our Senior Vice President, Banking, Financial Services, Insurance and Healthcare since July 2011. From 2004 to July 2011, he served as Senior Vice President and Business Leader, Banking, Financial Services and Insurance. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients businesses and levels of business activity. Global economic and political conditions affect our clients businesses and the markets they serve. The global economic downturn that began at the end of 2008 had an adverse impact on the volume of services we provide to our clients and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If current global economic conditions continue or worsen, our business could be adversely affected by our clients financial condition and the levels of business activity in the industries we serve. Continued high unemployment rates in the United States could also adversely affect the demand for our services. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. Negative or uncertain political climates, including adoption of restrictive legislation, in countries or geographies where we operate could also adversely affect us. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable effectively to plan for or respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. GE accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and any loss of business from, or change in our relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have derived and are likely to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from GE. For 2010, 2011 and 2012, GE accounted for 38.0%, 30.2% and 26.1% of our revenues, respectively. In addition, our more mature client relationships, such as GE, typically generate higher margins than those from newer clients. The loss of business from GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our master services agreement, or MSA, with GE commits GE to purchase, on an annual basis through 2016, a stipulated minimum dollar amount of services or pay us certain costs in lieu thereof. The costs which GE would be required to pay if it does not meet a minimum annual commitment are not necessarily equal to the amount by which GEs purchases fall short of that minimum annual commitment. While our revenues from GE in 2012 were $496.7 million, exceeding by $136.7 million the stipulated minimum annual amount for that year, there is no assurance that actual revenues from GE in future years will meet the minimum annual commitment or exceed it by as much as in 2012 or that GE will continue to be a client at all. Revenues in excess of the minimum annual commitment can be credited, subject to certain limitations, against shortfalls in subsequent years. In addition, the MSA provides that the minimum annual committed amount of $360 million will be reduced during the last three years of the term, to $250 million in 2014, $150 million in 2015 and $90 million in 2016. The MSA provides that the minimum annual committed amount is subject to reduction in certain circumstances, including as a result of the termination of any statements of work, or SOWs, by GE for cause, non-performance of services by us due to specified force majeure events or certain other reasons. The MSA also does not require GE to engage us exclusively in respect of business process services. In addition, pricing terms and pricing levels under future SOWs may be lower than in the past. In particular, because of the size of GE and its importance to our business it is able to exert considerable leverage on us when negotiating the terms of SOWs. Our business from GE comes from a variety of GEs businesses and decisions to use our services are currently, as a general matter, made by a number of people within GE. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, the total level of business we receive generally depends on the decisions of the various operating managers of such businesses. In addition, if GE sells or divests any of the businesses to which we provide services, the new management or new owners of such businesses may choose to discontinue our services. Finally, there can be no assurance that GE will not establish its own business unit to provide English-language business process services from low-wage countries or otherwise compete with us. 16 Table of Contents Future legislation in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. The issue of companies outsourcing services to organizations operating in other countries is a topic of political discussion in many countries. For example, many organizations and public figures in the United States have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore service providers and the loss of jobs in the United States. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends toward offshore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that provide services from the United States. In the United States, measures aimed at limiting or restricting offshore outsourcing have been proposed. Such measures have been enacted in a few states, and such legislation has been recently proposed in several states and Congress. The measures that have been enacted to date generally have restricted the ability of government entities to outsource work to offshore business process service providers and have not materially adversely affected our business, primarily because we do not currently work for such governmental entities and they are not currently a focus of our sales strategy. Some of the pending legislative proposals would, for example, require call centers to disclose their geographic locations, require notice to individuals whose personal information is disclosed to non-U.S. affiliates or subcontractors, require disclosures of companies foreign outsourcing practices, or limit eligibility for government contracts or financial incentives for companies that transfer work to foreign work locations. In addition, the current U.S. President has recently been encouraging U.S. businesses to insource functions, or return outsourced operations to the U.S. There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation in the United States that would significantly adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition will not be enacted. Legislation enacted in certain European jurisdictions and any future legislation in Europe, Japan or any other country in which we have clients restricting the performance of business process services from an offshore location could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, proposed changes to EU cloud computing standards and regulations and proposed taxes on outsourced data center activities may limit or restrict our operations, or make them more costly. Moreover, legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and by many European Union, or EU, countries, provides that if a company outsources all or part of its business to a service provider or changes its current service provider, the affected employees of the company or of the previous service provider are entitled to become employees of the new service provider, generally on the same terms and conditions as their original employment. In addition, dismissals of employees who were employed by the company or the previous service provider immediately prior to that transfer are automatically considered unfair dismissals that entitle such employees to compensation. As a result, in order to avoid unfair dismissal claims we may have to offer, and become liable for, voluntary redundancy payments to the employees of our clients in the United Kingdom and other EU countries who have adopted similar laws who transfer business to us. We believe that this legislation could materially affect our ability to obtain new business from companies in the EU and, after including the cost of the potential compensation paid for unfair dismissal claims or redundancies, to provide outsourced services to our current and future clients in the EU in a cost-effective manner. Tax matters, new legislation and actions by taxing authorities may have an adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax expense and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including, but not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations and the potential adverse outcome of tax examinations and pending tax-related litigation. Changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, 17 Table of Contents which may result from a decline in our profitability or changes in tax rates or legislation, could have a material adverse effect on our tax expense. The Government of India may assert that certain of our clients have a permanent establishment in India by reason of the activities we perform on their behalf, particularly those clients that exercise control over or have substantial dependency on our services. Such an assertion could affect the size and scope of the services requested by such clients in the future. The Government of India had served notice on the Company about its potential liability, as a representative assessee of GE, for Indian tax upon GEs 2004 transfer of shares of a predecessor of the Company. GE challenged the positions of the Government of India in the Delhi High Court, naming Genpact India (one of our subsidiaries) as a necessary party but without seeking relief against Genpact India. We believe that if Indian tax were due upon that transfer, it could not be successfully asserted against us as a representative assessee. Moreover, GE is obligated to indemnify us for any tax on its 2004 transfer of shares. On August 12, 2011, the Delhi High Court ruled that Genpact India cannot be held to be a representative assessee in this transaction. The tax authorities have filed an appeal with the Supreme Court of India against this ruling, which is pending. In respect of certain of our transactions, including our acquisitions (which included our subsidiaries organized under Indian law or owning assets located there), internal reorganizations, the sale of our shares in our public offerings or otherwise by our existing significant shareholders, the Indian tax authorities may argue that Indian tax is chargeable in as much as the indirect transfer of Indian subsidiaries are involved in such transactions and may seek to impose tax on us directly or as a withholding agent or representative assessee of the sellers. On January 20, 2012, the Indian Supreme Court ruled in the case of Vodafone International Holdings B.V. that an indirect transfer of shares in an Indian company (through transfer of an overseas company) could not be taxed in India and accordingly would not be subject to Indian withholding tax requirements. On May 28, 2012, the Government of India enacted legislation purporting to clarify the intent of existing tax law (and hence the law applicable in prior periods) to tax all income accruing or arising, whether directly or indirectly, through or from any business connection in India, or through or from any property in India, or through or from any asset or source of income in India, or through the transfer of a capital asset situate in India. The legislation, which we refer to as the Indirect Transfer Rule, also provides that an asset or a capital asset being any share or interest in a company or entity registered or incorporated outside India shall be deemed to be situated in India, if the share or interest derives, directly or indirectly, its value substantially from the assets located in India. Substantially has not been defined for purposes of the Indirect Transfer Rule. Public commentary on the legislation, including statements by various officials of the Government of India, has suggested that the legislation was intended to allow for the taxation of indirect transfer of shares in an Indian company, possibly with retrospective effect. The full implications and scope of this legislation, and how its provisions will be interpreted and applied are presently unclear, but arguably could apply to certain transactions involving the Company as noted above. Because there are significant uncertainties relating to the application of the Indirect Transfer Rule to transactions in shares of non-Indian companies, such as the Company, that have significant assets and operations in India, it is not clear whether, or to what extent, a buyer of common shares of the Company could be held liable for not withholding Indian tax on the acquisition of such shares or be subject to Indian tax on gains realized on the disposition of common shares of the Company. Furthermore, the Governments of India, the United States or other jurisdictions could enact new tax legislation, including anti-avoidance provisions, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The recently enacted Indian anti-avoidance provisions are, according to recent announcements, now proposed to be implemented with effect from April 1, 2015 onwards. The full implications, scope and applicability of the new anti-avoidance provisions are presently unclear. In addition, our ability to repatriate surplus earnings from our delivery centers in a tax-efficient manner is dependent upon interpretations of local laws, possible changes in such laws and the renegotiation of existing double tax avoidance treaties. Changes to any of these may adversely affect our overall tax rate or the cost of our services to our clients, or impose additional levels of tax upon us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Over the past few years certain tax benefits provided to companies in our industry have expired and it is not clear whether new tax policies will provide equivalent benefits and incentives. Under the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961, our delivery centers in India, from which we derived a significant portion of our revenues, benefitted from a ten-year holiday from Indian corporate income taxes in respect of their export profits under the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) Scheme through March 31, 2011. In the absence of this tax holiday, income derived from our Indian operations is taxed up to the maximum tax rate generally applicable to Indian enterprises, which, as of December 31, 2012, was 32.5%. During the last six years, we established new centers that we believe are eligible for tax benefits under the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005. The SEZ legislation introduced a 15-year tax holiday scheme for operations established in designated special economic zones or SEZs. Under the SEZ legislation, qualifying operations are eligible for a deduction from taxable income equal to (i) 100% of their export profits derived for the first five years from the commencement of operations; (ii) 50% of such export profits for the next five years; and (iii) 50% of the export profits for a further five years, subject to satisfying certain capital investment requirements. The SEZ legislation provides, among other restrictions, that this holiday is not available to operations formed by splitting up or reconstructing existing operations or transferring existing plant and equipment (beyond a prescribed limit) to new SEZ locations. The percentage of our operations or income in India that is eligible for SEZ benefits is variable, and depends, among other factors, upon how much of our business can be conducted at the qualifying locations and how much of that business can be considered to meet the restrictive conditions described above. The Direct Taxes Code Bill 2010 proposed by the Government of India and currently pending before Indian Parliament proposes the discontinuance of existing profit-based incentives for SEZ units commencing operations after March 31, 2014 and replaces them with investment based incentives for new SEZ units. As the SEZ legislation benefits phase-out, our Indian tax expense may materially increase and our after-tax profitability may be materially reduced, unless we can obtain comparable benefits under new legislation or otherwise reduce our tax liability. Consequently, our overall tax rate may increase over the next few years and such increase may be material and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, we enjoy corporate tax holidays or concessional tax rates in certain other jurisdictions such as China, Colombia, the Philippines, Guatemala and Morocco. These tax concessions will expire over the next few years possibly increasing our overall tax rate. If the transfer pricing arrangements we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate, our tax liability may increase. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, marketing, sales and delivery functions. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in other countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arms-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be substantially on arms-length terms. If, however, a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and determines that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, or that other income of our affiliates should be taxed in that jurisdiction, we may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients in the United States. If events or conditions occur which adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We currently derive, and are likely to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from clients located in the United States. A number of factors could adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The United States economy is still in a period of economic uncertainty, with continued high unemployment rates. Any deterioration in economic activity in the United States could adversely affect demand for our services, thus reducing our revenue. We could also be affected by decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Indian rupee, in which we incur the majority of our costs, or other currencies in which we incur costs. We may also be adversely affected by the enactment of laws in the United States that impose restrictions on, or taxation or other financial penalties with respect to, offshore outsourcing. We may fail to attract and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations. Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled employees and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. Historically, high employee attrition has been common in our industry. See Item 1BusinessOur People. In 2012, our attrition rate for all employees who were employed for a day or more was approximately 25%. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce our level of attrition or even maintain our attrition rate at the 2012 level. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. Despite current economic conditions, competition for qualified employees, particularly in India and China, remains high and we expect such competition to continue. We compete for employees not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies. In many locations in which we operate, there is a limited pool of employees who have the skills and training needed to do our work. If our business continues to grow, the number of people we will need to hire will increase. We will also need to increase our hiring if we are not able to maintain our attrition rate through innovative recruiting and retention policies. Significant competition for employees could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our clients, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs. Wage increases in the countries in which we have operations may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margin. Salaries and related benefits of our employees are our most significant costs. Most of our employees are based in India and other countries in which wage levels have historically been significantly lower than wage levels in the United States and Western Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage levels for comparably skilled employees in most of the countries in which we operate have increased and further increases are expected at a faster rate than in the United States and Western Europe because of, among other reasons, faster economic growth, increased competition for skilled employees and increased demand for business process services. We will lose this competitive advantage to the extent that we are not able to control or share wage increases with our clients. Sharing wage increases may cause our clients to be less willing to utilize our services. In addition, wage increases may reduce our margins. We will attempt to control such costs by our efforts to add capacity in locations where we consider wage levels of skilled personnel to be satisfactory, but we may not be successful in doing so. We may need to increase our wage levels significantly and rapidly in order to attract the quantity and quality of employees that are necessary for us to remain competitive, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have also increased, and expect to further increase, the number of employees we have in the United States from the levels than we have had historically, and this could have a negative effect on our profit margin. 20 Table of Contents Currency exchange rate fluctuations in various currencies in which we do business, especially the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remaining amounts largely in euros, pounds sterling, the Japanese yen, the Australian dollar and the Indian rupee. Most of our expenses are incurred and paid in Indian rupees, with the remaining amounts largely in U.S. dollars, Chinese renminbi, euros, Philippine pesos, Romanian lei, pounds sterling, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Guatemalan quetzals, Polish zloty, Hungarian forints and the South African rand. As we expand our operations to new countries, we will incur expenses in other currencies. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates between the Indian rupee and other currencies in which we incur costs or receive revenues, on the one hand, and the U.S. dollar, on the other hand, have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. See