Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking terms such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, could, may, shall, will, would and variations of such words and similar expressions, or the negative of such words or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, which in some cases may be based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined under Item 1ARisk Factors in this Annual Report. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to: our ability to retain existing clients and contracts; our ability to win new clients and engagements; the expected value of the statements of work under our master service agreements; our beliefs about future trends in our market; political, economic or business conditions in countries where we have operations or where our clients operate, including the uncertainty related to the recent withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, commonly known as Brexit, and heightened economic and political uncertainty within and among other European Union member states; expected spending on business process outsourcing and information technology services by clients; foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to convert bookings to revenue; our rate of employee attrition; our effective tax rate; and competition in our industry. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results include, among others: our ability to develop and successfully execute our business strategies; our ability to grow our business and effectively manage growth and international operations while maintaining effective internal controls; our ability to comply with data protection laws and regulations and to maintain the security and confidentiality of personal and other sensitive data of our clients, employees or others; telecommunications or technology disruptions or breaches, natural or other disasters, or medical epidemics or pandemics, including the coronavirus strain known as COVID-19; 2 our dependence on favorable policies and tax laws that may be changed or amended in a manner adverse to us or be unavailable to us in the future, including as a result of recently adopted tax legislation in the United States, and our ability to effectively execute our tax planning strategies; our dependence on revenues derived from clients in the United States and Europe and clients that operate in certain industries, such as the financial services industry; our ability to successfully consummate or integrate strategic acquisitions; our ability to maintain pricing and employee utilization rates; our ability to hire and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations; increases in wages in locations in which we have operations; our ability to service our defined contribution and benefit plans payment obligations; clarification as to the possible retrospective application of a judicial pronouncement in India regarding our defined contribution and benefit plans payment obligations; our relative dependence on the General Electric Company, or GE, and our ability to maintain our relationships with divested GE businesses; financing terms, including, but not limited to, changes in the London Interbank Offered rate, or LIBOR, including the pending global phase-out of LIBOR, and changes to our credit ratings; our ability to meet our corporate funding needs, pay dividends and service debt, including our ability to comply with the restrictions that apply to our indebtedness that may limit our business activities and investment opportunities; restrictions on visas for our employees traveling to North America and Europe; fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the currencies in which we transact business, primarily the U.S. dollar, Australian dollar, Chinese renminbi, euro, Indian rupee, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Polish zloty, Romanian leu, Hungarian forint and U.K. pound sterling; our ability to retain senior management; the selling cycle for our client relationships; our ability to attract and retain clients and our ability to develop and maintain client relationships on attractive terms; legislation in the United States or elsewhere that adversely affects the performance of business process outsourcing and information technology services offshore; increasing competition in our industry; our ability to protect our intellectual property and the intellectual property of others; deterioration in the global economic environment and its impact on our clients, including the bankruptcy of our clients; regulatory, legislative and judicial developments, including the withdrawal of governmental fiscal incentives; the international nature of our business; technological innovation; 3 our ability to derive revenues from new service offerings; and unionization of any of our employees. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable at the time they are made, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties, and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Forms 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use the terms Genpact, Company, we and us to refer to Genpact Limited and its subsidiaries. Our registered office is located at Victoria Place, 5 th Floor, 31 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 10, Bermuda. 4 PART I Item 1. Business About Genpact Genpact is a global professional services firm that makes business transformation real. We drive digital-led innovation and run digitally-enabled intelligent operations for our clients, guided by our experience over time running thousands of processes for hundreds of Fortune Global 500 clients. We have more than 96,500 employees serving clients in key industry verticals from more than 30 countries . Our 2019 total net revenues were $3.5 billion. In 2019, we continued to follow a strategy focused on delivering differentiated, domain-led solutions that create value for our clients. During the year we made acquisitions in two focus areas financial crimes and risk, and experience-led transformation and continued to invest in our existing digital capabilities and domain expertise, all in an effort to accelerate the business outcomes we can drive for our clients. Our approach We use our Smart Enterprise Processes SM ( SEP ) a patented and highly granular approach to dramatically improving the performance of business processes to help drive outcomes for our clients by making their business processes more efficient and effective. SEPs, and their more recent evolution, Digital SEPs , combine Lean Six Sigma methodologies which reduce waste and inefficiency and improve process quality with advanced digital technologies, experience-centric principles and our deep expertise in how businesses run. Our SEPs test the effectiveness of client processes using best-in-class benchmarks we have developed by mapping and analyzing hundreds of millions of client transactions across thousands of end-to-end business processes. In this way, we identify opportunities for improving client processes and technologies, and we apply our deep process knowledge and process-centric technology to transform them. Our Digital SEPs build on our SEP framework by adding domain-specific digital products and solutions that draw on our expertise in Artificial Intelligence (AI), mobility, dynamic workflow, advanced visualization, robotics, experience design and machine learning. Genpact Cora integrates our proprietary automation, analytics, and AI technologies into a unified platform. It draws insights from our deep domain and operations expertise in our target industries and service lines, and allows us to create solutions focused on improving customer and user experience. Our teams use Genpact Cora to embed the latest technologies along with our deep domain knowledge into our solutions to accelerate our clients digital transformations. Domain-led digital transformation Our clients operate in increasingly complex business environments, driven by an explosion in technology opportunities, new and disruptive competitors, and shifting market dynamics. Companies need to reimagine their business models and adapt to rapid change. These organizations seek partners that can improve productivity while creating competitive advantages and driving business outcomes, such as expanded market share, seamless customer experiences, increased revenue, working capital improvement, increased profitability, and minimized risk and loss. We believe our approach to business transformation, enabled through combining our deep industry and process expertise with our advanced skills in digital and analytics, differentiates us from our competitors. 5 Our Innovation Centers in Bangalore and Delhi, India, Boston and Palo Alto, United States, and Netanya, Israel help clients learn about how new digital solutions can drive business outcomes . We use these innovation centers to bring together clients, partners, and other industry leaders for brainstorming and hackathon-style workshops. As part of this process, we apply design thinking to make the most of human capabilities, domain expertise, and innovative technology , and create solutions that quickly and aptly meet client objectives . The result s can include quick-turnaround prototype s that clients can install and test in their own environments . We enable domain-led digital transformation for our clients primarily in two ways: designing and running Intelligent Operations SM and providing digital-led Transformation Services . Intelligent Operations Our Intelligent Operations embed digital and advanced analytics into our business process outsourcing solutions to automate and transform our clients operations. This allows enterprises to be more flexible and helps them focus on what they need to do to better compete in their industries. Transformation Services Our transformation services include our digital products, services and solutions, consulting services, and analytics offerings. Digital: Through our portfolio of digital products, we help our clients harness the power of digital. Our Genpact Cora platform helps us design and implement our digital solutions, making use of advanced technologies, AI, robotic process automation and dynamic workflow. Consulting: Our consulting practice, which includes digital experts, helps clients: Get a complete picture of how they run their operations across their organization in our areas of focus; Measure how their operating processes compare to industry best practices; Create custom roadmaps to help them drive business outcomes; and Train client teams to execute on our recommendations. Analytics: We use advanced analytics and data engineering to help our clients make timely, informed and fact-based decisions. We offer analytics services and solutions in areas where we have domain expertise, both on a standalone basis and embedded in our other service offerings. We use quantitative and qualitative methods to analyze a clients data to help them assess new business opportunities, manage risk, and make better business decisions. We are also building and driving solutions around experience-led transformation. Using human-centric design, we help clients build new products and services, create digital workspaces, and drive customer, client, employee and partner engagement. We significantly expanded our capabilities in this space in 2019 with the acquisition of Rightpoint Consulting, LLC, which builds on existing capabilities gained from our previous acquisitions of TandemSeven, Inc. and Endeavour Software Technologies Private Limited and adds valuable expertise that we believe will position us to meet evolving client demand for experience-led transformation. 6 Our service offerings For clients across our chosen industry verticals, we offer the following professional services: Finance and accounting services; Core industry operations specific to our chosen industry verticals; Sourcing, procurement and supply chain services; and IT services. Finance and accounting We believe we are one of the worlds premier providers of financial and accounting services. Our services in this area include: Accounts payable : document management, invoice processing, approval and resolution management, and travel and expense processing; Invoice-to-cash : customer master data management, credit and contract management, fulfillment, billing, collections, and dispute management services; Record to report : accounting, treasury, tax services, product cost accounting, and closing and reporting, including SEC and regulatory reporting; Enterprise performance management : budgeting, forecasting, and business performance reporting; and Enterprise risk and compliance : operational risk and controls across a wide range of regulatory environments. Core industry operations We help our clients design, transform and run core enterprise operations specific to their industries. On the foundation of domain expertise embedded in our SEP frameworks, we use our Lean Digital approach to leverage digital technologies and specialized analytics to power Intelligent Operations. We provide core operations support in all of our chosen industry verticals. Sourcing, procurement and supply chain services We offer direct and indirect strategic sourcing, category management, spend analytics, procurement operations, master data management, and other procurement and supply chain advisory services. We use our expertise in this area to help clients transform and run sourcing strategies across expense categories, drive process compliance and realize significant cost reduction in their businesses. Using our Lean Digital approach and best-in-class SEPs, we help clients improve productivity and their customers experiences by: Improving sourcing and procurement processes; Optimizing inventory management and the overall supply chain; Automating processes, such as order management; Integrating separate technology systems and aggregating data from disparate data sources; and Providing a single dashboard to see metrics in one place. IT services Our IT services include end-user computing support, infrastructure management, application production support, and database management. We provide support in more than 25 languages. 7 Monitoring and management: We help our clients monitor and manage their data centers, servers, storage, emails, networks, databases, applications, and end-user devices. Infrastructure management: We offer cloud infrastructure services, IT service integration and management and cybersecurity services. Business intelligence and data warehousing : We leverage our deep domain and process expertise to help clients with business intelligence and big data, enterprise resource planning, quality assurance, technology integration, and business intelligence reporting. Industries we serve We work with clients across our chosen industry verticals, which are areas in which we believe we have deep industry acumen. Our chosen industry verticals, which are also our three reportable segments, are: (1) Banking, Capital Markets and Insurance, or BCMI, (2) Consumer Goods, Retail, Life Sciences and Healthcare, or CGRLH, and (3) High Tech, Manufacturing and Services, or HMS. Organizing our business by industry verticals allows us to leverage our deep domain knowledge specific to our chosen industries and create, replicate and standardize innovative solutions for clients in the same industries. In addition to our professional services, such as finance and accounting, that are available to clients across our verticals, we offer core industry-specific services to clients in select verticals. Banking, Capital Markets and Insurance Our banking and capital markets clients include retail, investment and commercial banks, mortgage lenders, equipment and lease financing providers, investment banks, wealth and asset management firms, broker/dealers, exchanges, clearing and settlement organizations and other financial services companies. Our core operations services for these clients include application processing, collections and customer services, equipment and auto loan servicing, mortgage origination and servicing, risk management and compliance services, reporting and monitoring services, wealth management operations support, end-to-end information technology services, application development and maintenance, managed services, risk management and compliance services, and consulting. Our core operations services for clients in the insurance industry vertical such as property and casualty insurers, life and annuities insurers, reinsurance providers and insurance brokerage firms include underwriting, claims management, regulatory reporting, risk and catastrophe modelling, and customer segmentation and loyalty. Consumer Goods, Retail, Life Sciences and Healthcare Our consumer goods and retail clients include companies in the food and beverage, household goods, apparel, personal goods and consumer health industries as well as grocery chains and other retailers. The core operations services we provide to these clients include supply chain management, order management, trade promotion optimization, and supplier risk management. Our life sciences and healthcare clients include pharmaceutical, medical technology and biotechnology companies as well as healthcare payers (health insurers) and providers and pharmacy benefit managers. Our core operations services for life sciences clients include regulatory affairs services, such as lifecycle management, regulatory operations, Chemistry Manufacturing Controls compliance, safety and pharmacovigilance, and regulatory information management. Our services for healthcare clients include managing the end-to-end lifecycle of a claim, from claims processing and adjudication to claims recovery and payment integrity. 8 High T ech , M anufacturing and S ervices Our clients in the high tech industry vertical include companies in the electronics, software and technology sectors. The core operations services we provide to these clients include industry-specific solutions for the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), order and supply chain management, digital content management and risk management. Our manufacturing and services clients include companies in the automotive, chemicals, energy, hospitality, manufacturing, media and entertainment, and transportation and logistics sectors. Our core operations solutions for these clients include industry-specific solutions for the IIoT, aftermarket services support, industrial asset optimization, engineering services covering the complete product lifecycle from concept to release and sustaining engineering, supply chain management, direct procurement and logistics services. Our clients We serve more than 700 clients across many industries and geographies. Our clients include some of the biggest brands in the world, many of which are leaders in their industries. GE GE has been our largest client since our inception and accounted for $478.1 million, or approximately 13.6%, of our total net revenues in 2019. We serve several of GEs business units, including Aviation, Corporate, Healthcare, Industrial Finance, Lighting, Power and Renewables. We provide broad services to GE across all of our service offerings. Commitments with respect to services we may perform for GE are set forth in statements of work, or SOWs, purchase orders and business services agreements, or BSAs, that we may enter into with individual GE business units from time to time. These SOWs, purchase orders and BSAs cover in more detail the type of work to be performed and the associated amounts to be billed. In general, each GE business unit decides whether to enter into a SOW, purchase order or BSA with us and on what terms it will do so. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, our revenues from GE come from many different businesses, each with its own leader who makes decisions about our services. Global clients We serve about one fourth of the Fortune Global 500. Our clients include industry leaders such as Anheuser-Busch InBev, Bridgewater, Canon, Citigroup, Kraft Heinz, Liberty Mutual Insurance, McKesson, Mondelez, Novartis and Walgreens Boots Alliance. Our net revenues from our clients other than GE, which we refer to as our Global Clients, have grown from $1.8 billion in 2014 to $3.0 billion in 2019, representing a compound annual growth rate of 10.9%. Our net revenues from Global Clients as a percentage of total net revenues increased from approximately 79.6% in 2014 to approximately 86.4% in 2019. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsClassification of Certain Net Revenues. Our contracts with clients for Intelligent Operations services often take the form of a master services agreement, or MSA, which is a framework agreement that we then supplement with SOWs. For transformation services, we typically enter into software-as-a-service and/or consulting agreements with our clients depending on the scope of the services to be performed. For more about our contracting frameworks, see Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewNet Revenues. 9 Our people Our people are critical to the success of our business. We have created, and constantly reinforce, a culture that emphasizes collaboration, innovation, process improvement, and dedication to our clients. We seek to foster a culture that wins clients, develops leaders and attracts and retains talent who exhibit our core values curiosity, incisiveness and courage and who uphold our dedication to integrity consistent with our Code of Ethical Business Conduct. We are committed to the career development of our employees and making them future-ready. To that end, we have developed a learning infrastructure that allows our people to continuously source and absorb knowledge and adapt to an ever-changing world by cultivating and sustaining skills necessary to thrive in the age of AI, fill in the talent gap and drive real-world innovation at scale for our clients. Our performance management approach supports our career philosophy by encouraging employees to reflect on their performance, set challenging goals, identify their development needs and find relevant learning and training opportunities. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 96,500 employees working in more than 30 countries. Partnerships and alliances We continue to invest in and expand our strategic alliances with companies whose services and solutions complement ours. Together, we work to enhance our existing solutions or create new offerings to meet market needs. Our alliances generally fall into one of the following categories: Strategic, go-to-market partnerships Deal-specific relationships to jointly solve a specific issue for a client Digital and other white label embedded technology-based relationships We have three primary types of partners: consulting partners, digital partners, and solution partners. Our digital and solution partnerships aim to nurture relationships with established and emerging players. These potential partners specialize in leading-edge disruptive digital technologies and solutions that we can embed into our offerings or jointly bring to market. Corporate social responsibility Genpacts approach to corporate social responsibility focuses on three pillars that reflect our strengths, core expertise, and causes that our employees care about: Education and employability Gender diversity and inclusion Sustainability We foster a culture of giving and volunteering through several global platforms, projects, and social initiatives. Our more than 45,000 employee volunteers have, among other things, helped underprivileged children get better access to education, assisted unemployed women in developing job skills and finding jobs, and worked on projects to help improve infrastructure and education in the communities in which we work and live. Additionally, more than 10,000 of our employees participate in our payroll-based charitable donation programs. 10 Sales and marketing We market our services to both existing and potential clients through our business development team and our lead client partners and global relationship managers. Members of this team are based around the globe, including in the United States, Europe, Australia and Asia, and dedicate their time to expanding the services we provide to our existing clients as well as acquiring new clients. We have designated lead client partners and global relationship managers for each of our strategic client relationships. The client partners and global relationship managers are supported by digital and analytics, process improvement, quality, transition, finance, human resources, information technology and industry/product subject matter expert teams to ensure the best possible solution is provided to our clients. We constantly measure our client satisfaction levels to ensure that we maintain high service levels for each client, using measures such as the Net Promoter Score. Our sales force is primarily organized by industry vertical teams that are supported by horizontal service offerings. The length of our selling cycle varies depending on the type of engagement. The sales cycle for project work is typically much shorter than the sales cycle for a large business process engagement. Our efforts may begin in response to our lead generation program, a perceived opportunity, a reference by an existing client, a request for proposal or otherwise. In addition to our business development personnel, the sales effort involves people from the relevant service areas, people familiar with that prospective clients industry and business leaders. We may expend substantial time and resources in securing new business. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewNet Revenues. As our relationship with a client grows, the time required to win an engagement for additional services often gradually declines. In addition, as we become more knowledgeable about a clients business and processes, our ability to identify opportunities to create value for the client typically increases. For example, greater business impact, including productivity benefits, can often be achieved by applying our Lean Digital SM approach and SEP SM methodology, by focusing on processes that are upstream or downstream from the processes we initially handle, or by applying our transformation services capabilities to reimagine processes. We also strive to foster relationships between our senior leadership team and our clients senior management. These C-level relationships ensure that both parties are focused on establishing priorities, aligning objectives and driving client value from the top down. High-level executive relationships represent particularly constructive means of increasing business from our existing clients. It also provides us with a forum for addressing client concerns. Our governance methodology is designed to ensure that we are well connected at all levels of our clients organizations (executive, management and operations). Significant new business opportunities are reviewed by business leaders, lead client partners and global relationship managers from the applicable industry vertical along with operations personnel and members of our finance department. If they determine that the new business is aligned with our strategic objectives and a good use of our resources, then our business development team is authorized to pursue the opportunity. Global delivery We serve our clients using our global network of 93 delivery centers in 21 countries. We have delivery centers in Australia, Brazil, China, Costa Rica, Egypt, Germany, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, the United Kingdom and the United States. We also have many employees in these and additional countries, such as Canada, Ireland, Portugal, Singapore, Spain and Turkey, who work with our clients either onsite or virtually, which offers flexibility for both clients and employees. 11 With this global network, we are able to manage complex processes around the world. We use different locations for different types of services depending on client needs and the mix of skills and cost of employees at each location. Our global delivery model gives us: multilingual capabilities; access to a larger talent pool; near-shoring as well as off-shoring capabilities to take advantage of time zones; and proximity to our clients through a significant onshore presence. We also regularly look for new places to open delivery centers and offices, both in new countries or new cities in countries where we already have a presence. Before we choose a new location, we consider several factors, such as the talent pool, infrastructure, government support, operating costs, and client demand. Service delivery model We seek to be a seamless extension of our clients operations. To that end, we developed the Genpact Virtual Captive SM service delivery model, in which we create a virtual extension of our clients teams and environments. Our clients get dedicated employees and management, as well as dedicated infrastructure at our delivery centers. We also train our teams in our clients cultures, processes, and business environments. Intellectual Property The solutions we offer our clients often include a range of proprietary methodologies, software, and reusable knowledge capital. We also develop intellectual property in the course of our business and our agreements with our clients regulate the ownership of such intellectual property. We seek to protect our intellectual property and our brand through various means, including by agreement and applications for patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights and domain names. Some of our intellectual property rights are trade secrets and relate to proprietary business process enhancements. We often use third-party and client software platforms and systems to provide our services. Our agreements with our clients normally include a license to use the clients proprietary systems to provide our services. Clients authorize us to access and use third party software licenses held by the client so that we may provide our services. It is our practice to enter into agreements with our employees and independent contractors that: ensure that all new intellectual property developed by our employees or independent contractors in the course of their employment or engagement is assigned to us; provide for employees and independent contractors cooperation in intellectual property protection matters even if they no longer work for us; and include a confidentiality undertaking by our employees and independent contractors. 12 Competition We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving global market. We have a number of competitors offering services that are the same as or similar to ours. Our competitors include: large multinational service providers, primarily accounting and consulting firms, that provide consulting and other professional services; companies that are primarily business process service providers operating from low-cost countries, most commonly India; companies that are primarily information technology service providers with some business process service capabilities; and smaller, niche service providers that provide services in a specific geographic market, industry or service area, including digital. We may also face losses or potential losses of business when in-house departments of companies use their own resources rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services and solutions we provide. Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our industry include: skills and capabilities; technical and industry expertise; innovative service and product offerings, including digital offerings; ability to add value, including through continuous process improvement; reputation and client references; contractual terms, including competitive pricing; scope of services; quality of services and solutions; ability to sustain long-term client relationships; and global reach and scale. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis. Regulation We are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions around the world as a result of the complexity of our operations and services, particularly in the countries where we have operations and where we deliver services. We are also subject to regulation by regional bodies such as the European Union, or EU. In addition, the terms of our service contracts typically require that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. In some of our service contracts, we are contractually required to comply even if such laws and regulations apply to our clients, but not to us, and sometimes our clients require us to take specific steps intended to make it easier for them to comply with applicable requirements. In some of our service contracts, our clients undertake the responsibility to inform us about laws and regulations that may apply to us in jurisdictions in which they are located. 13 If we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we may face restrict ions on our ability to provide services, and may also be the subject of civil or criminal actions involving penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our clients generally have the right to terminate our contracts for cause in the event of regulatory failures, subject in some cases to notice periods. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessOur global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business. If we fail to comply with contractual commitments to facilitate our clients compliance, we may be liable for contractual damages, and clients in regulated industries may be less willing to use our services. We are affected by laws and regulations in the United States, the United Kingdom, the EU and its member states, and other countries in which we do business that are intended to limit the impact of outsourcing on employees in those jurisdictions, and occasional changes to laws and regulations in such jurisdictions may impose changes that further restrict or discourage offshore outsourcing or otherwise harm our business. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessFuture legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. Our collection, use, disclosure and retention of personal health-related and other information is subject to an array of privacy, data security, and data breach notification laws and regulations that change frequently, are inconsistent across the jurisdictions in which we do business, and impose significant compliance costs. In the United States, personal information is subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations relating to privacy, data security, and breach notification, including, for example, the Financial Modernization Act (sometimes referred to as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Federal Trade Commission Act, Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, Communications Act, Electronic Communications Privacy Act, and the California Consumer Privacy Act. All fifty U.S. states and the District of Columbia have implemented separate data security and breach notification laws with which we must comply; in addition, some states have strengthened their existing laws. Some courts have become more willing to allow individuals to pursue claims in data breach cases, indicating that it may become easier for consumers to sue companies for data breaches. Related laws and regulations govern our direct marketing activities and our use of personal information for direct marketing, including the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act, Telemarketing Sales Rule, Telephone Consumer Protection Act and rules promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission, and CAN-SPAM Act. In 2018, the Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data, or CLOUD, Act established new required processes and procedures for handling U.S. law enforcement requests for data that we may store outside of the U.S. In the EU, the General Data Protection Regulation, or the GDPR, went into effect in May 2018. The GDPR supersedes EU member states national protection laws and imposes privacy and data security compliance obligations and increased penalties for noncompliance. In particular, the GDPR has introduced numerous privacy-related changes for companies operating in the EU, including greater control for data subjects, increased data portability for EU consumers, data breach notification requirements and increased fines. GDPR enforcement has begun, and companies have faced fines for violations of certain provisions. Fines can reach as high as 4% of a companys annual total revenue, potentially including the revenue of a companys international affiliates. Additionally, foreign governments outside of the EU are also taking steps to fortify their data privacy laws and regulations. For example, India, as well as some countries in Latin America and Asia, are considering GDPR-like data protection laws. Evolving laws and regulations in India protecting the use of personal information could also impact our engagements with clients, vendors and employees in India. As privacy laws and regulations around the world continue to evolve, these changes could adversely affect our business operations, websites and mobile applications that are accessed by residents in the applicable countries. 14 In the United States, we are either directly subject to, or contractually required to comply or facilitate our clients compliance with, laws and regulations arising out of our work for clients operating there, especially in the area of banking, financial services and insurance, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Service Company Act, the Home Owners Loan Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and regulation by U.S. agencies such as the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Because of our debt collections work in the United States, we are also regulated by laws such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and related regulations. We are currently licensed to engage in debt collection activities in all jurisdictions in the United States where licensing is required. U.S. banking and debt collection laws and their implementing regulations are occasionally amended, and these changes may impose new obligations on us or may change existing obligations. Because of our insurance processing activities in the United States, we are currently licensed as a third-party administrator in 41 states and are regulated by the department of insurance in each such state. In two other states, we qualify for regulatory exemption from licensing based on the insurance processing activities we provide. In the United States, we are subject to laws and regulations governing foreign trade, such as export control, customs and sanctions regulations maintained by government bodies such as the Commerce Departments Bureau of Industry and Security, the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control, and the Homeland Security Departments Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. Other jurisdictions, such as the EU, also maintain similar laws and regulations that apply to some of our operations. Several of our service delivery centers, primarily located in India, China, the Philippines and Guatemala, benefit from tax incentives or concessional rates provided by local laws and regulations. The Indian Special Economic Zones Act of 2005, or SEZ legislation, introduced a tax holiday in certain situations for operations established in designated special economic zones, or SEZs. The SEZ tax benefits are available only for new business operations that are conducted at qualifying SEZ locations. We cannot predict what percentage of our operations or income in India or other jurisdictions in future years will be eligible for a tax holiday. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewIncome Taxes. In addition to the tax holidays described above, certain benefits are also available to us as an information technology enabled service (ITES) company under certain Indian state and central laws. These benefits include rebates and waivers in relation to payments for the transfer or registration of property (including for the purchase or lease of premises), waivers of conversion fees for land, exemption from state pollution control requirements, entry tax exemptions, labor law exemptions, commercial usage of electricity and incentives related to the export of qualified services. Our hedging activities and currency transfer are restricted by regulations in certain countries, including India, Romania and China. Certain Bermuda Law Considerations As a Bermuda company, we are also subject to regulation in Bermuda. Among other things, we must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda as amended, or the Companies Act, regulating the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions from contributed surplus. 15 We are classified as a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Pursuant to our non-resident status, we may engage in transactions in currencies other than Bermuda dollars. There are no restrictions on our ability to transfer funds in and out of Bermuda or to pay dividends to United States residents that are holders of our common shares. Under Bermuda law, exempted companies are companies formed for the purpose of conducting business outside Bermuda. As an exempted company, we may not, without a license granted by the Minister of Finance, participate in certain business transactions, including transactions involving Bermuda landholding rights and the carrying on of business of any kind, for which we are not licensed in Bermuda. In 2019, Bermuda also instituted economic substance requirements pursuant to the Economic Substance Act 2018, as amended, and the regulations issued thereunder, which requires us to have adequate economic substance in Bermuda in relation to certain of our activities. Organizational structure We conduct our business primarily through direct and indirect subsidiaries of our parent company, Genpact Limited, which is a Bermuda exempted limited company. Our business was initially conducted through various entities and divisions of GE. We began operating as an independent company in 2004, when GE spun off our operations and sold indirect interests in us to our initial investors. In 2007, we completed our initial public offering. In 2012, affiliates of Bain Capital Investors, LLC, or Bain Capital, acquired the majority of the remaining interests held by our initial investors which represented approximately 26% of our outstanding shares at that time. Following a series of sales from 2017 to 2019, Bain Capital and its affiliates no longer own any of our outstanding equity. Available Information We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec .gov. We make available free of charge on our website, www.genpact .com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 16 Information about our executive officers The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers as of March 2, 2020: Name Age Position(s) N.V. Tyagarajan 58 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Edward Fitzpatrick 53 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Cogny 53 Senior Vice President, High Tech, Manufacturing and Services Balkrishan Kalra 50 Senior Vice President, Consumer Goods, Retail, Life Sciences and Healthcare Piyush Mehta 51 Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer Darren Saumur 52 Senior Vice President, Global Operating Officer Kathryn Stein 42 Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer and Business Leader, Enterprise Services Heather White 47 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary N.V. Tyagarajan has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since June 2011. From February 2009 to June 2011, he was our Chief Operating Officer. From February 2005 to February 2009, he was our Executive Vice President and Head of Sales, Marketing and Business Development. From October 2002 to January 2005, he was Senior Vice President, Quality and Global Operations, for GEs Commercial Equipment Finance division. Between 1999 and 2002, he served as our Chief Executive Officer. Edward Fitzpatrick has served as our Chief Financial Officer since July 2014. Prior to joining Genpact, he spent 13 years at Motorola Solutions Inc. and its predecessor company Motorola Inc., most recently serving as executive vice president and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to Motorola, he worked at General Instrument Corporation, which was acquired by Motorola Inc., and Price Waterhouse, LLP. Mr. Fitzpatrick also currently serves as a director of CBOE, Inc. Patrick Cogny has served as our Senior Vice President, Manufacturing and Services since September 2011 and has also been responsible for our High Tech business since January 2017. From 2005 to August 2011, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Genpact Europe. Prior to this, he spent 15 years working for GE in the Healthcare business and in the GE Europe corporate headquarters, in France, the United States and Belgium. Balkrishan Kalra has served as our Senior Vice President, Consumer Goods, Retail and Life Sciences since 2008 and has also been responsible for our Healthcare business since 2016. Prior to this, he held various roles at Genpact since joining us in 1999. Piyush Mehta has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since March 2005. He has worked for us since 2001, initially as Vice President of Human Resources. Darren Saumur has served as our Senior Vice President, Global Operating Officer since April 2018. Prior to joining Genpact, he was an executive vice president responsible for the services business at Infor from 2014 to 2018. From 2005 to 2014, he worked at SAP where he ran SAPs global consulting businesses. Mr. Saumur began his career at Ernst & Young, where he worked from 1991 to 2005. Kathryn Stein has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer since December 2016 and has also been responsible for our Enterprise Services business since February 2019. Prior to joining Genpact, Ms. Stein was at Mercer for six years, most recently as a Partner and Market Business Leader. Before Mercer, she worked with Boston Consulting Group, the Center for Strategic and International Studies and MarketBridge Consulting. 17 Heather White has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since April 2018. Ms. White has been with Genpact since 2005 , and served most recently as our Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel. Prior to joining Genpact, she was a corporate attorney in the New York and London offices of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP. 18 Item 1A. R isk Factors Risks Related to our Business Our success largely depends on our ability to achieve our business strategies, and our results of operations and financial condition may suffer if we are unable to continually develop and successfully execute our strategies. Our future growth, profitability and cash flows largely depend upon our ability to continually develop and successfully execute our business strategies. While we have confidence that our strategic plans reflect opportunities that are appropriate and achievable, the execution of our strategy may not result in long-term growth in revenue or profitability due to a number of factors, including incorrect assumptions, global or local economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we operate, sub-optimal resource allocation or any of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. In pursuit of our growth strategy, we may also invest significant time and resources into new product or service offerings, and these offerings may fail to yield sufficient return to cover our investments in them. The failure to continually develop and execute optimally on our business strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be liable to our clients or others for damages, subject to criminal liability, fines or penalties, and our reputation could be damaged, if our information systems are breached or confidential or sensitive client or employee data is compromised. We are often required to collect, process and store proprietary, personally identifying or other sensitive or confidential client data in the operation of our business or in connection with the services we provide under our contracts, including, for example, names, address, social security numbers, personal health information, credit card account numbers, payment history records, and checking and savings account numbers. In addition, we collect, process and store data regarding our employees and contractors. As a result, we are subject to numerous data protection and privacy laws and regulations designed to protect this information in the countries in which we operate as well as the countries of residence of the persons whose data we process. Data may be accessed, disclosed or modified improperly as a result of theft, error or malfeasance by our employees, contractors or other third parties, and others may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, clients or other third parties into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data or IT systems or our clients', contractors or other third parties' data or IT systems. If any person, including any of our current or former employees or contractors, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our or our clients established controls with respect to sensitive data or if we do not adapt to changes in data protection legislation, we could be subject to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. In addition, the products, services and software that we provide to our clients, or the third-party components we use to provide such products, services and software, may contain or introduce cybersecurity threats or vulnerabilities to our clients information technology networks, intentionally or unintentionally. Our clients may maintain their own proprietary, sensitive, or confidential information that could be compromised in a cybersecurity attack, or their systems may be disabled or disrupted as a result of such an attack. Our clients, regulators, or other third parties may attempt to hold us liable, through contractual indemnification clauses or directly, for any such losses or damages resulting from such an attack. The threat of incursion into our information systems and technology infrastructure has increased and evolved in recent years with the increasing number and sophistication of third parties who have hacked, attacked, disrupted or otherwise invaded information systems of other companies and have misappropriated or disclosed data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently or may be designed to remain dormant until a predetermined event and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, detect when an incursion has occurred or implement adequate preventative and responsive measures. The steps we have taken to protect our data security may be inadequate. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure (including due to aged IT systems or infrastructure) or otherwise, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and our reputation could be harmed and we could lose existing or potential clients. Media or other reports of perceived breaches or weaknesses in our systems, 19 products or networks , even if nothing has actually been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially affect our business. In addition, we may not be able to prevent others from using our data and proprietary information to compete with us. Existing trade secret, copyright and trademark laws offer only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our data and proprietary information. For example, doing business in certain jurisdictions poses risks, including but not limited to theft of intellectual property and data and potentially different treatment of foreign owned intellectual property rights and data than that owned or developed in such jurisdictions. If we have to resort to legal proceedings to enforce our rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, protracted and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk and be unsuccessful. Our clients, suppliers, subcontractors, and other third parties with whom we do business, including in particular cloud service providers and software vendors, generally face similar cybersecurity threats, and we must rely on the safeguards adopted by these parties. If these third parties do not have adequate safeguards or their safeguards fail, it might result in breaches of our systems or applications and unauthorized access to or disclosure of our and our clients confidential data. In addition, we are regularly alerted to vulnerabilities in third-party technology components we use in our business that create vulnerabilities in our environments. We typically are not aware of such vulnerabilities until we receive notice from the third parties who have created the exposure, and our responses to such vulnerabilities may not be adequate or prompt enough to prevent their exploitation. We may also be liable to our clients or others for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information or system failures. Many of our contracts do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. We may also be subject to civil actions and criminal prosecution by governments or government agencies for breaches relating to such data. Our insurance coverage or indemnification protections for breaches or mismanagement of such data may not be adequate to cover all costs related to data loss, cybersecurity attacks, or disruptions resulting from such events, or they may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claims. The impact of these cybersecurity attacks, data losses, and other security breaches cannot be predicted, but any such attack, loss or breach could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our clients, suppliers, subcontractors, or other third parties. Incidents of this type could require significant management attention and resources, could result in the loss of business, regulatory enforcement and financial liability, and could harm our reputation among our clients and the public, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operation, or liquidity. While we have developed and implemented security measures and internal controls designed to prevent, detect and respond to cyber and other security threats and incidents, such measures cannot guarantee security and may not be successful in preventing security breaches. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to regular incursion attempts from a variety of sources, and we have experienced data security incidents such as inadvertent or unauthorized disclosures of data, including as a result of phishing or malware, and other unauthorized access to or use of our systems or those of third parties. To date such incidents have not had a material impact on our operations or financial results; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. We have deliver centers in more than 20 countries, and our global operations could be disrupted at any time by natural or other disasters, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, extreme weather conditions (whether as a result of climate change or otherwise), medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. In addition, global climate change may result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, drought, wildfires, sea-level rise, heavy rains and flooding, and any such disaster or series of disasters in areas where we have a concentration of delivery centers, such as India, 20 could significantly disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition . Our delivery centers and our data and voice communications may also be damaged or disrupted as a result of technical disruptions such as electricity or infrastructure breakdowns, including damage to telecommunications cables, computer glitches and electronic viruses or human-caused events such as protests, riots, labor unrest and cyberattacks. Such events, or any natural or weather-related disaster, could lead to the disruption of information systems and telecommunication services for sustained periods. They also may make it difficult or impossible for employees to reach our business locations. Damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of services could adversely affect our reputation, our relationships with our clients, our leadership teams ability to administer and supervise our business or it may cause us to incur substantial additional expenditure to repair or replace damaged equipment or delivery centers. Our operations and those of our significant suppliers and distributors could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, such as those listed above. Even if our operations are unaffected or recover quickly from any such events, if our customers cannot timely resume their own operations due to a catastrophic event, they may reduce or cancel their orders, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We may also be liable to our clients for disruption in service resulting from such damage or destruction. Additionally, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by the effects of a widespread outbreak of a contagious disease, including the recent outbreak of the respiratory illness caused by a coronavirus strain known as COVID-19 first identified in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, or any other outbreak of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments. Governments, public institutions and other organizations in countries and localities where cases of COVID-19 have been detected are taking certain emergency measures to combat its spread, including implementation of travel bans and closures of factories, schools, public buildings and businesses. While the full impact of this outbreak is not yet known, we are closely monitoring the spread of COVID-19 and continually assessing its potential effects on our business. These effects could include disruptions or restrictions on our employees and other service providers ability to travel, as well as temporary closures of our facilities or the facilities of our clients, suppliers, or other vendors in our supply chain. Restrictions on the ability of certain of our employees to travel could affect our ability to sell or render certain services, such as consulting services, and could have an adverse effect on our bookings and revenues from such services. We have operating subsidiaries around the world, including in China, the United States and other countries where cases of COVID-19 have been reported and may be spreading in the community. In particular, we have a large concentration of employees in India and we also have large delivery centers in the United States, and if COVID-19 were to spread widely and suddenly in India, the United States or in any other country where we have a large employee presence or critical operations, it could impair our ability to manage day-to-day service delivery for certain clients or at certain sites and result in, among other things, losses of revenue and inadvertent breaches of our client contracts if a large number of our employees, or a group of employees in the same service line or who serve the same clients, were unable to work at the same time. In addition to the potential direct effects on us of COVID-19 or any similar epidemic or pandemic, we could be materially adversely impacted, including from any disruption to critical vendor services or losses of business, if any of our suppliers or clients face significant business disruptions as a result of COVID-19 or any similar outbreak. Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be effective at preventing or mitigating the effects of any of the foregoing business disruptions, particularly in the case of a catastrophic event. Prolonged disruption of our services would also entitle our clients to terminate their contracts with us. While we currently have commercial liability insurance, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Furthermore, we may be unable to secure such insurance coverage at premiums acceptable to us in the future or at all. Any of the above factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients businesses and levels of business activity. Global macroeconomic conditions affect our clients businesses and the markets they serve. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions in our significant markets have in the past undermined and could in the future undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other markets, which are increasingly interdependent, and cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new initiatives, or may result in clients reducing, delaying or eliminating spending under existing contracts with us, which would negatively affect our business. Growth in the markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate or contract, in each case, for an extended period of time. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate and the industries we serve have affected and may in the future affect demand for our services. A material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our clients in North America and Europe. Weak demand in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, major political events, including the United Kingdoms withdrawal from the European Union, or Brexit, pursuant to a withdrawal agreement, which became effective on January 31, 2020, create uncertainty for businesses that operate in these markets. As the United Kingdom and EU begin to negotiate the terms upon which they will trade with each other following the end of the 11-month Brexit transition period on December 31, 2020, there remains uncertainty on topics that are relevant to our operations in Europe, such as privacy regulations, immigration laws and employment laws. In the medium and long-term, we face uncertainty in our operations as to the impact of Brexit on, among other things, the free movement of our employees between the United Kingdom and EU member states and the movement of data between the United Kingdom and EU member states. Additionally, uncertainty as to the future trade terms between the United Kingdom and the EU could negatively impact our clients who are based or have operations in the United Kingdom or the EU, including clients in the financial services sector, and as a consequence could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, a significant portion of our revenues from clients in the United Kingdom is generated in British pounds. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that revenues from clients based in the United Kingdom will be affected by adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We continue to examine the various possible impacts Brexit may have on our business and operating model. Any of these factors, or the possibility of an unfavorable trade agreement between the United Kingdom and the EU following the end of the transition period, could adversely affect global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty and changing demand patterns affect our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand and effectively build our revenue and resource plans. Economic volatility and uncertainty is particularly challenging because it may take some time for the effects and changes in demand patterns resulting from these and other factors to manifest themselves in our business and results of operations. Changing demand patterns from economic volatility and uncertainty could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. 22 Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, including through the adaptation and expansion of our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings, and a significant reduction in such demand or an inability to respond to the evolving technological environment could materially affect our results of operations. Our revenue and profitability depend on the demand for our services and solutions with favorable margins, which could be negatively affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology and offerings to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Examples of areas of significant change include digital- and cloud-related offerings, which are continually evolving as developments such as AI, automation, Internet of Things and as-a-service solutions are commercialized. Technological developments such as these may materially affect the cost and use of technology by our clients and, in the case of as-a-service solutions, could affect the nature of how we generate revenue. Some of these technologies, such as cloud-based services, AI and automation, and others that may emerge, have reduced and replaced some of our historical services and solutions and may continue to do so in the future. This has caused, and may in the future cause, clients to delay spending under existing contracts and engagements and to delay entering into new contracts while they evaluate new technologies. Such delays can negatively impact our results of operations if the pace and level of spending on new technologies is not sufficient to make up any shortfall. Developments in the industries we serve, which may be rapid, also could shift demand to new services and solutions. If, as a result of new technologies or changes in the industries we serve, our clients demand new services and solutions, we may be less competitive in these new areas or need to make significant investment to meet that demand. Our growth strategy focuses on responding to these types of developments by driving innovation that will enable us to expand our business into new growth areas. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and adapt to industry developments, or evolve and expand our business at sufficient speed and scale, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments and successfully drive innovation, our services and solutions, our results of operations, and our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and to execute on our growth strategy could be negatively affected. Companies in the industries we serve sometimes seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for the services and solutions we offer, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work if we are not successful in generating new opportunities from the merger or consolidation. Tax matters may have an adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions, notably in India where we have substantial operations. Our provision for income taxes, actual tax expense and cash tax liability could be adversely affected by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, lower income before taxes generated in countries with lower tax rates; higher income generated in countries with higher tax rates; changes in tax laws and regulations or in applicable income tax treaties; changes in accounting principles or interpretations thereof or in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; the possible disappearance or expiration of certain tax concessions that we have enjoyed in prior years; and adverse outcomes of tax examinations and pending tax-related litigation. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and tax authorities around the world, notably in India where we have substantial operations, and there can be no assurance that negative outcomes from those examinations or any appeals therefrom will not adversely affect our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. For example, the Government of India has appealed a 2011 ruling by the Delhi High Court that Genpact India Private Limited (one of our 23 subsidiaries) cannot be held to be a representative assessee of GE in connection with an assertion that GE has tax liability in India by reason of a 2004 transfer of shares of our predecessor company. We believe that, if the Government of India is successful in its appeal, GE would be obligated to indemnify us for any resulting tax, though there can be no assurance as to the outcome of this matter. In addition, the Government of India issued assessment orders to us in 2014, 2016 and 2019 seeking to assess tax on certain transactions that occurred in 2009, 2013 and 2015. We do not believe that the transactions should be subject to tax in India under applicable law, and have accordingly not provided a reserve for such exposure and have filed the necessary appeals. Although a judgment was rendered in our favor in respect of our appeal related to tax year 2009, the Indian tax authority has partially appealed the judgment in a higher court. We have received demands for potential tax claims resulting from assessments related to tax years 2009, 2013 and 2015 in an aggregate amount of $154 million, including interest calculated through the date the orders were made. As of March 2, 2020, we have paid a total of $55 million (including $4 million in interest) toward these demands to the Indian tax authority under protest, including a payment of $28 million on February 26, 2020 pursuant to a court order dated February 7, 2020. We may be required to pay the remainder of the demands pending resolution of the matters. Additionally, in the event we do not prevail in our appeals, the total amounts owed in connection with these demands would be subject to additional interest accrued over the period since the demands were made, and the amount of this additional interest could be material. There is no assurance that we will prevail in this matter or similar transactions, and a final determination of tax in the amounts claimed could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. See Note 25Income taxes to our consolidated financial statements under Part IV, Item 15Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules for additional information relating to these matters. More generally, the Indian tax authorities may claim that Indian tax is owed with respect to certain of our transactions, such as our acquisitions (including our subsidiaries organized under Indian law or owning assets located in India), internal reorganizations and the sale of our shares in public offerings or otherwise by our existing significant shareholders, in which indirect transfers of Indian subsidiaries or assets are involved. Those authorities may seek to impose tax on us directly or as a withholding agent or representative assessee of the seller in these or other transactions. Furthermore, there is growing pressure in many jurisdictions, including the United States, and from multinational organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or the OECD, and the EU to amend existing international tax rules in order to render them more responsive to current global business practices. For example, the OECD has published a package of measures for reform of the international tax rules as a product of its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or the BEPS, initiative, which was endorsed by the G20 finance ministers. Many of the initiatives in the BEPS package require amendments to the domestic tax legislation of various jurisdictions. Separately, the EU is asserting that a number of country-specific favorable tax regimes and rulings in certain member states may violate, or have violated, EU law, and may require rebates of some or all of the associated tax benefits to be paid by benefitted taxpayers in particular cases. In 2016, the EU adopted the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive which requires EU member states to implement measures to prohibit tax avoidance practices. In addition, in December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act became law in the U.S., bringing about far-ranging changes to the existing corporate tax system. This legislation establishes a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of multinational corporations and, among other items and with varying effective dates, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, an additional minimum tax measured in part by base erosion payments involving certain members of affiliated groups, significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, the modification of constructive ownership rules used to determine the status of certain non-U.S. companies as controlled foreign corporations, and changes to the rules governing taxable and tax-free cross-border transfers of intangible property. Certain provisions in this legislation are unclear or incomplete in their application. While this legislation has not so far had a material overall impact on our effective tax rate or business practices and operations, it is possible that our tax liability may materially increase in the future as a result of this legislation. Other legislative and regulatory proposals may also affect our tax position or our business practices and operations, depending on whether and in what form they may ultimately take effect. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessFuture legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. 24 Although we monitor these developments, it is very difficult to assess to what extent changes and other proposals, if enacted, may be implemented in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we conduct our business or may impact the way in which we conduct our business or our effective tax rate due to their unpredictability and interdependency. As these and other tax laws and related regulations and practices change, those changes could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We may be subject to claims and lawsuits for substantial damages by our clients arising out of disruptions to their businesses or our inadequate performance of services. We depend in large part on our relationships with clients and our reputation for high-quality services to generate revenue and secure future engagements. Most of our service contracts with clients contain service level and performance requirements, including requirements relating to the quality of our services. Failure to consistently meet service requirements of a client, whether due to: (a) natural or other disasters, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, extreme weather conditions (whether as a result of climate change or otherwise), medical epidemics, pandemics or other contagious diseases (such as COVID-19) or other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events; (b) breach of or incursion into our computer systems (for example, through a ransomware attack); (c) other systems failure, including due to aged IT systems or infrastructure; or (d) errors made by our employees in the course of delivering services to our clients could disrupt the clients business and result in a reduction in our revenues, clients terminating their business relationships with us and/or a claim for damages against us. Additionally, we could incur liability if a process we manage for a client were to result in internal control failures or impair our clients ability to comply with its own internal control requirements. We are also subject to actual and potential claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings outside of errors and omissions claims. Under our MSAs with our clients, our liability for breach of our obligations is generally limited to actual damages suffered by the client and is typically capped at the greater of an agreed amount or the fees paid or payable to us under the relevant agreement. These limitations and caps on liability may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients or liability for breaches of confidentiality, are generally not limited under those agreements. Our MSAs are governed by laws of multiple jurisdictions, therefore the interpretation of such provisions, and the availability of defenses to us, may vary, which may contribute to the uncertainty as to the scope of our potential liability. Although we have commercial general liability insurance coverage, the coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claims. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements), could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. It is also possible that future results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable resolution of these matters. In addition, these matters divert management and personnel resources away from operating our business. Even if we do not experience significant monetary costs, there may be adverse publicity or social media attention associated with these matters that could result in reputational harm, either to us directly or to the industries or geographies we operate in, that may materially adversely affect our business, client or employee relationships. Further, defending against these claims can involve potentially significant costs, including legal defense costs. 25 Future legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. In the United States, federal and state measures aimed at limiting or restricting, or requiring disclosure of offshore outsourcing have been occasionally proposed and enacted. In addition, public figures in the United States, including the current President, members of his administration and other elected officials, continue to suggest that U.S. businesses be subjected to tax or other adverse consequences for outsourcing, with incentives for returning outsourced operations to the United States, although it is not known what specific measures might be proposed or how they would be implemented and enforced, or whether emerging or enacted tax reform or other near-term Congressional action will affect companies outsourcing practices. There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation or executive action in the United States that would significantly adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition will not be enacted. Legislation enacted in certain European jurisdictions and any future legislation in Europe, Japan or any other country in which we have clients restricting the performance of business process services from an offshore location or imposing burdens on companies that outsource data processing functions could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, evolving EU cloud computing standards and regulations and proposed taxes on outsourced data center activities or new EU and Japanese regulations on international transfers of personal data may limit or restrict our operations, or make them more costly. Moreover, legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and by many EU countries, provides that if a company outsources all or part of its business to a service provider or changes its current service provider, the affected employees of the company or of the previous service provider are entitled to become employees of the new service provider, generally on the same terms and conditions as their original employment. In addition, dismissals of employees who were employed by the company or the previous service provider immediately prior to that outsourcing, if the dismissals resulted solely or principally from the outsourcing, are automatically considered unfair dismissals that entitle such employees to compensation. As a result, in order to avoid unfair dismissal claims we may have to offer, and become liable for, voluntary redundancy payments to the employees of our clients in the United Kingdom and other EU countries who have adopted similar laws who transfer business to us. Additionally, the United Kingdoms decision to leave the EU has introduced uncertainty into trade relations and could result in increased costs, delays, and regulatory complexity in our business involving the United Kingdom. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business. We are subject to, or subject to contractual requirements to comply with or facilitate our clients compliance with, numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters such as anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, taxation, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, wage-and-hour standards, and employment and labor relations. Our clients business operations are also subject to numerous regulations, and our clients may require that we perform our services in compliance with regulations applicable to them or in a manner that will enable them to comply with such regulations. The global nature of our operations increases the difficulty of compliance. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us and/or our employees, prohibitions on doing business, breach of contract damages and harm to our reputation. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws may not be well developed or provide sufficiently clear guidance and may be insufficient to protect our rights. 26 In particular, our collection, use, disclosure, and retention of personal health-related and other information is subject to an array of privacy, data security, and data breach notification laws and regulations that change frequently, are inconsistent across the jurisdictions in which we do business, and impose significant compliance costs. Changes in these laws and regulations and inconsistencies in the standards that apply to our business in different jurisdictions may impose significant compliance costs, reduce the efficiency of our operations, and expose us to enforcement risks. In the United States, the California Consumer Privacy Act, or the CCPA, went into effect in January 2020. The CCPA imposes privacy and data security obligations on companies and provides California consumers with certain rights as data subjects. Several other U.S. states have proposed data privacy laws that impose similar but non-identical obligations. In addition, some states have passed laws imposing increased data security and breach notification obligations on companies operating in the U.S. In the EU, the GDPR imposes privacy and data security compliance obligations and significant penalties for noncompliance. The GDPR presents numerous privacy-related changes for companies operating in the EU, including rights guaranteed to data subjects, requirements for data portability for EU consumers, data breach notification requirements and significant fines for noncompliance. In GDPR enforcement matters, companies have faced fines for violations of certain provisions . Fines can reach as high as 4% of a companys annual total revenue, potentially including the revenue of a companys international affiliates. Additionally, foreign governments outside of the EU are also taking steps to fortify their data privacy laws and regulations. For example, some countries in Latin America and Asia, such as Brazil, South Korea and Thailand, are implementing or considering GDPR-like data protection laws . Evolving laws and regulations in India protecting the use of personal information could also impact our engagements with clients, vendors and employees in India. One proposal currently being considered in India relates to the regulation of cross - border transfer s of sensitive personal information and has potentially broad-reaching implications in the backdrop of cloud computing. Given the size and scope of our operations in India, the costs of compliance with Indian data privacy laws, and any fines or penalties for breaches thereof, could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations . As privacy laws and regulations around the world continue to evolve, these changes and others could adversely affect our business operations, websites and mobile applications that are accessed by residents in the applicable countries. In addition, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, common practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Our employees, subcontractors, agents, joint venture partners, the companies we acquire and their employees, subcontractors and agents, and other third parties with which we associate, could take actions that violate policies or procedures designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation. 27 If the transfer pricing arrangements we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate, our tax liability may increase. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, financing, marketing, sales and delivery functions. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in other countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arms-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be substantially on arms-length terms. If, however, a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and determines that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, or that other income of our affiliates should be taxed in that jurisdiction, we may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flows, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. GE accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and any material loss of business from, or change in our relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from GE. In 2017, 2018 and 2019, GE accounted for 9.8%, 8.9% and 13.6% of our revenues, respectively. In the past, GE has divested businesses we serve, including a significant portion of its GE Capital business. We expect that our services for GE will decline in the future if GE pursues further divestitures. We intend to continue to make efforts to procure contracts with respect to GEs divested businesses; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to procure any such contracts or that such contracts would be on favorable terms. GE is not obligated to provide us with any exclusivity or opportunity to work on GE projects and GE is not required to purchase a minimum amount of services from us. In addition, GE has the right to terminate our services in whole or in part for any reason by providing us with a short period of advance notice. Any material loss of business from, or change in relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, our revenues from GE may be more volatile in the future and this volatility could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewNet Revenues for further information regarding our relationship with GE. We expect that our business with GE will continue to come from a variety of GEs businesses and that, in general, GEs decisions to use our services will continue to be made by a number of people within GE. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, we expect that the total level of business we receive will continue to depend on the decisions of the various operating managers of such businesses. Any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients located in the United States and Europe, as well as on clients that operate in certain industries. If events or conditions occur which adversely affect the economic health of the United States or Europe, demand in the United States or Europe or in certain industries for the type of services we provide, or the rate of growth in the industries in which our clients operate, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In 2019, more than 70% of our revenues were derived from clients based in North America and more than 15% of our revenues were derived from clients based in Europe. Additionally, in 2019, more than 30% of our revenues were derived from clients in the financial services industry, which includes insurance. A number of factors could adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States or Europe, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, Brexit has created, and continues to create, political and economic uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU and as to whether any other European countries may similarly seek to exit the EU. We have operations in the United Kingdom and a 28 number of countries in the EU and our global operations serve clients with operations in these regions, and as a result our business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by such uncertainty and by the terms of the United Kingdoms withdrawal from the EU . Furthermore, any deterioration in economic activity in the United States or Europe could adversely affect demand for our services, thus reducing our revenue. Increased regulation, changes in existing regulation or increased government intervention in the industries in which our clients operate may adversely affect growth in such industries and therefore have an adverse impact on our revenues. We may face difficulties in providing end-to-end business solutions or delivering complex, large or unique projects for our clients that could cause clients to discontinue their work with us, which in turn could harm our business and our reputation. We continue to expand the nature and scope of our engagements, including by incorporating digital solutions that use social, mobility, big data and cloud-based technologies. Our ability to effectively offer a wide range of business solutions depends on our ability to attract existing or new clients to new service offerings, and the market for our solutions is highly competitive. We cannot be certain that our new service offerings, particularly our digital offerings, will effectively meet client needs or that we will be able to attract clients to these service offerings. The complexity of our new service offerings, our inexperience in developing or implementing them, and significant competition in the markets for these services may affect our ability to market these services successfully. In addition, the breadth of our existing service offerings continues to result in larger and more complex projects with our clients, which have risks associated with their scope and complexities. Our failure to deliver services that meet the requirements specified by our clients could result in termination of client contracts, and we could be liable to our clients for significant penalties or damages or suffer reputational harm. Larger projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays may result from factors that have little or nothing to do with the quality of our services, such as the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements and inaccuracies in such resource planning and allocation may have a negative impact on our profitability. From time to time we also enter into agreements that include unique service level delivery requirements or novel pricing arrangements with which we have no experience and that may be unique in the industry. These projects can include performance targets that become more rigorous over the term of the contracts and service delivery components that are partially subjective by design, and we may be unable achieve such targets or to satisfy our clients expectations in delivering such services. Our failure to deliver such engagements to our clients expectations could result in termination of client contracts, and we could be liable to our clients for penalties or damages or suffer reputational harm. We may also discover that we have not priced such engagements appropriately, which could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. Our partnerships, alliances and relationships with third-party suppliers and contractors and other third parties with whom we do business expose us to a variety of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our partnerships and alliances and our relationships with a variety of third parties, including suppliers, contractors and others, expose us to a variety of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, and we may not be successful in mitigating such risks. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for products and services, as well as our suppliers ability to deliver sufficient quantities and quality of products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet commitments for the delivery of our own services. In addition, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our services, including with respect to any third-party components to our services. Any performance failure on the part of our partners or the third parties with whom we do business could delay our performance of client deliverables, which could deprive us of potential revenue. Additionally, our partners, third-party suppliers and contractors and other third parties with whom we do business may not be able to comply with current good business practices or applicable laws or regulatory requirements. Our failure, or the failure of such third parties, to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in 29 sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. We may have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our partners and third parties with whom we do business dedicate to their arrangements with us. Our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our partners or other third parties desire and ability to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. Further, certain of our suppliers, partners and other contractors may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. In addition, we are a party to a number of license agreements with third parties and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect that future licenses will impose, various obligations and restrictions on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations and restrictions, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we might not be able to market any product or service that is covered by these agreements, which could materially adversely affect our business. Termination of these license agreements or reduction or elimination of our licensed rights may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated licenses with less favorable terms, or cause us to lose rights in important intellectual property or technology. Any of the foregoing may prevent us from working with our partners or third parties with whom we do business and could subject us to losses, affect our ability to bring products and services to market, cause us to fail to satisfy our client obligations and harm our reputation. We may fail to attract and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations. Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled employees and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. Historically, high employee attrition has been common in our industry. See Item 1BusinessOur people. In 2019, our attrition rate for all employees who were employed for a day or more was approximately 28%, unchanged from 2018. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce our level of attrition or even maintain our attrition rate at the 2019 level. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. Competition for qualified employees, particularly in India and China, remains high and we expect such competition to continue. We compete for employees not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies. In many locations in which we operate, there is a limited pool of employees who have the skills and training needed to do our work. If our business continues to grow, the number of people we will need to hire will increase. We will also need to increase our hiring if we are not able to maintain our attrition rate through innovative recruiting and retention policies. Significant competition for employees could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our clients, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs. Wage increases in the countries in which we have operations may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margin. Salaries and related benefits of our employees are our most significant costs. Most of our employees are based in India and other countries in which wage levels have historically been significantly lower than wage levels in the United States and Western Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage levels for comparably skilled employees in most of the countries in which we operate have increased and further increases are expected at a faster rate than in the United States and Western Europe because of, among other reasons, faster economic growth, increased competition for skilled employees and increased demand for business process services. We will lose this competitive advantage to the extent that we are not able to control or share wage increases with our clients. Sharing wage increases may cause our clients to be less willing to utilize our services. In addition, wage increases may reduce our profitability. We will attempt to control such costs by our efforts to add capacity in locations where we consider wage levels of skilled personnel to be satisfactory, but we may not be successful in doing so. We may need to increase our wage levels significantly and rapidly in order to attract the quantity and quality of employees that are necessary for us to remain competitive, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 30 In addition, in early 2019, the Supreme Court of India clarified that certain allowances paid by an employer to an employee should be included for purposes of calculating provident fund contributions in addition to contributions based on basic wages alone . If this decision is implemented with retrospective application, the amount of the payments that we are required to make at that time to or for the benefit of our employees could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have also increased, and expect to further increase, the number of employees we have in the United States from the levels tha t we have had historically, and this could have a negative effect on our profit ability . Currency exchange rate fluctuations in various currencies in which we do business, especially the Indian rupee, the euro and the U.S. dollar, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remaining amounts largely in euros, UK pounds sterling, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen and the Indian rupee. Most of our expenses are incurred and paid in Indian rupees, with the remaining amounts largely in U.S. dollars, Chinese renminbi, Romanian lei, euros, UK pounds sterling, Philippine pesos, Japanese yen, Polish zloty, Mexican pesos, Guatemalan quetzals, Hungarian forint and the Australian dollar. As we expand our operations to new countries, we will incur expenses in other currencies. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates between the Indian rupee, the euro and other currencies in which we incur costs or receive revenues, on the one hand, and the U.S. dollar, on the other hand, have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. See