Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking terms such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, could, may, shall, will, would and variations of such words and similar expressions, or the negative of such words or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, which in some cases may be based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined under the heading Summary of Risk Factors and Item 1ARisk Factors in this Annual Report. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to: our ability to retain existing clients and contracts; our ability to win new clients and engagements; the expected value of the statements of work under our master service agreements; our beliefs about future trends in the markets in which we operate; political, economic or business conditions in countries where we have operations or where our clients operate, including related to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, commonly known as Brexit, and heightened economic and political uncertainty within and among other European Union member states; expected spending on business process outsourcing, information technology and digital transformation services by clients; foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to convert bookings to revenue; our rate of employee attrition; our effective tax rate; and competition in our industry. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results include, among others: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and related response measures on our business, results of operations and financial condition; our ability to develop and successfully execute our business strategies; our ability to grow our business and effectively manage growth and international operations while maintaining effective internal controls; our ability to comply with data protection laws and regulations and to maintain the security and confidentiality of personal and other sensitive data of our clients, employees or others; telecommunications or technology disruptions or breaches, natural or other disasters, or medical epidemics or pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic; 2 our dependence on favorable policies and tax laws that may be changed or amended in a manner adverse to us or be unavailable to us in the future, including as a result of tax policy changes in India , and our ability to effectively execute our tax planning strategies; our dependence on revenues derived from clients in the United States and Europe and clients that operate in certain industries, such as the financial services industry; our ability to successfully consummate or integrate strategic acquisitions; our ability to maintain pricing and employee utilization rates; our ability to hire and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations; increases in wages in locations in which we have operations; our ability to service our defined contribution and benefit plans payment obligations; clarification as to the possible retrospective application of a judicial pronouncement in India regarding our defined contribution and benefit plans payment obligations; our relative dependence on the General Electric Company, or GE, and our ability to maintain our relationships with divested GE businesses; financing terms, including, but not limited to, changes in the London Interbank Offered rate, or LIBOR, including the pending global phase-out of LIBOR, the development of alternative rates, including the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, and changes to our credit ratings; our ability to meet our corporate funding needs, pay dividends and service debt, including our ability to comply with the restrictions that apply to our indebtedness that may limit our business activities and investment opportunities; restrictions on visas for our employees traveling to North America and Europe; fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the currencies in which we transact business; our ability to retain senior management; the selling cycle for our client relationships; our ability to attract and retain clients and our ability to develop and maintain client relationships on attractive terms; legislation in the United States or elsewhere that restricts or adversely affects demand for business process outsourcing, information technology and digital transformation services offshore; increasing competition in our industry; our ability to protect our intellectual property and the intellectual property of others; deterioration in the global economic environment and its impact on our clients, including the bankruptcy of our clients; regulatory, legislative and judicial developments, including the withdrawal of governmental fiscal incentives; the international nature of our business; technological innovation; our ability to derive revenues from new service offerings; and unionization of any of our employees. 3 Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable at the time they are made, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties, and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Forms 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use the terms Genpact, Company, we and us to refer to Genpact Limited and its subsidiaries. Our registered office is located at Victoria Place, 5 th Floor, 31 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 10, Bermuda. 4 SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS Below is a summary of the principal risk factors that make an investment in our common shares risky or speculative. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we deem less significant may also impair our business. Additional discussion of the risks that we face can be found in Item 1ARisk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, before making an investment decision regarding our common shares. Risks Related to our Business and Operations Our business and results of operations have been adversely impacted and may in the future be adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Our success largely depends on our ability to achieve our business strategies, and our results of operations and financial condition may suffer if we are unable to continually develop and successfully execute our strategies. We could be liable to our clients or others for damages, subject to criminal liability, fines or penalties, and our reputation could be damaged, if our information systems are breached or confidential or sensitive client or employee data is compromised. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients businesses and levels of business activity. Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, and a significant reduction in such demand or an inability to respond to the evolving technological environment could materially affect our results of operations. Tax matters may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. Wage increases in the countries where we operate may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margin. We may be subject to claims and lawsuits for substantial damages, including by our clients arising out of disruptions to their businesses or our inadequate performance of services. Future legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business. GE accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and any material loss of business from, or change in our relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients located in the United States and Europe, as well as on clients that operate in certain industries. We may face difficulties in providing end-to-end business solutions or delivering complex, large or unique projects for our clients that could cause clients to discontinue their work with us, which in turn could harm our business and our reputation. Our partnerships, alliances and relationships with third-party suppliers and contractors and other third parties with whom we do business expose us to a variety of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may fail to attract and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations in various currencies in which we do business, especially the Indian rupee, the euro and the U.S. dollar, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Restrictions on entry visas may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our senior leadership team is critical to our continued success and the loss of such personnel could harm our business. 5 We may be unable to service our debt or obtain additional financing on competitive terms. We often face a long selling cycle to secure a new contract as well as long implementation periods that require significant resource commitments, which result in a long lead time before we receive revenues from new relationships. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to price appropriately, maintain employee and asset utilization levels and control our costs. Our results of operations and share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our financial results. Our operating results may experience significant fluctuations. We enter into long-term contracts and fixed price contracts with our clients. Our failure to price these contracts correctly may negatively affect our profitability. If we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Some of our contracts contain provisions which, if triggered, could result in lower future revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we do not protect our intellectual property or if our services are found to infringe on the intellectual property of others. A substantial portion of our assets, employees and operations are located in India and we are subject to regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainties in India. We may face difficulties as we expand our operations into countries in which we have no prior operating experience. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence involving any of the countries in which we or our clients have operations could adversely affect our operations and client confidence. If more stringent labor laws become applicable to us or if our employees unionize, our profitability may be adversely affected. We may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. We may become subject to taxation as a result of our incorporation in Bermuda or place of management, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Economic substance requirements in Bermuda could adversely affect us. We may not be able to realize the entire book value of goodwill and other intangible assets from acquisitions. Risks Related to our Shares The issuance of additional common shares by us or the sale of our common shares by our employees could dilute our shareholders ownership interest in the Company and could significantly reduce the market price of our common shares. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare and pay dividends on our common shares, and future determinations to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda, and Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders. The market price for our common shares has been and may continue to be volatile. You may be unable to effect service of process or enforce judgments obtained in the United States or Bermuda against us or our assets in the jurisdictions in which we or our executive officers operate. 6 USE OF TRADEMARKS The trademarks, trade names and service marks appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. We have omitted the and designations, as applicable, for the trademarks named in this Annual Report on Form 10-K after their first reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 7 PART I Item 1. Business Genpact is a global professional services firm that makes business transformation real. We drive digital-led innovation and run digitally-enabled intelligent operations for our clients, guided by our experience over time running thousands of processes for hundreds of Fortune Global 500 companies. We have approximately 96,500 employees serving clients in key industry verticals from more than 30 countries . Our 2020 total net revenues were $3.7 billion. In 2020, our agility and culture of embracing change allowed us to rapidly adapt to meet client needs and pivot to new ways of working. We believe we demonstrated the strength and resilience of our business model and provided predominantly non-discretionary solutions and services to our clients. We continued to follow a strategy focused on delivering differentiated, domain-led solutions in a focused set of geographies, industry verticals and service lines. During the year we made acquisitions in two focus areas experience-led transformation and data and analytics and continued to invest in our existing digital capabilities and domain expertise, all in an effort to accelerate the business outcomes we can drive for our clients. Our approach Many of our client solutions are embedded with our Digital Smart Enterprise Processes SM ( Digital SEPs ), a patented and highly granular approach to dramatically improving the performance of business processes to help drive client outcomes. Our Digital SEPs combine Lean Six Sigma methodologies which reduce inefficiency and improve process quality with advanced domain-specific digital technologies, drawing on our industry acumen, our expertise in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and experience-centric principles, and our deep understanding of how businesses run. Digital SEPs test the effectiveness of client processes using best-in-class benchmarks developed by mapping and analyzing millions of client transactions across thousands of end-to-end business processes. In this way, we identify opportunities for improving clients operations by applying our deep process knowledge and process-centric technologies to transform them. Genpact Cora has the ability to integrate our proprietary automation, analytics and AI technologies with those of our strategic partners into a unified offering. It draws insights from our deep domain and operations expertise in our target industries and service lines to create data- and analytics-based solutions that are focused on improving customer and user experience to accelerate clients digital transformations. Domain-led digital transformation Industry disruption is pervasive, driven by an explosion in digital technologies, new competitors, and shifting market dynamics. In this environment, companies need industry-tailored solutions to reimagine their business models end-to-end and adapt to rapid change. These organizations seek partners that can improve productivity while creating competitive advantages and driving business outcomes, such as expanded market share, seamless customer experiences, increased revenue, working capital improvement, increased profitability, and minimized risk and loss. We believe our approach to business transformation, enabled through combining our deep industry and process expertise with our advanced skills in digital and analytics, differentiates us from our competitors. 8 We partner with clients to show them how new digital solutions can drive business outcomes. We apply design thinking to make the most of human capabilities, domain expertise and innovative technology, and create solutions designed to quickly and aptly meet client objectives. The results can include quick-turnaround prototypes that clients can install and test in their own environments. We enable domain-led digital transformation for our clients primarily in two ways: designing and running Intelligent Operations SM and providing digital-led Transformation Services . Intelligent Operations Our Intelligent Operations embed digital, advanced analytics and cloud-based offerings into our business process outsourcing solutions to automate and transform our clients operations. This allows enterprises to be more flexible and helps them focus on high-value work to better compete in their industries. Our solutions also include our IT services that provide end-user computing support, infrastructure management (including cloud, service integration and management and cybersecurity), application production support and database management. Transformation Services Our transformation services include our digital solutions, consulting services, and analytics offerings. Digital: We help our clients harness the power of digital technologies. Our Genpact Cora platform helps us design and implement digital solutions, making use of advanced technologies, AI, cloud-based software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings, robotic process automation and dynamic workflow. Consulting: Our consulting practice, which includes digital, AI and cloud experts, helps clients: Get a complete picture of how they run their operations across their organization in our areas of focus; Measure how their operating processes compare to industry best practices; Create custom roadmaps to help them deliver business outcomes; and Train client teams to execute on our recommendations. Analytics: We use data and advanced analytics to help our clients make timely, informed and insight-based decisions. We offer analytics services and solutions in areas where we have domain expertise, both on a standalone basis and embedded in our other service offerings. We use quantitative and qualitative methods to analyze a clients data to help them assess new business opportunities, manage risk, and make better business decisions. We have recently expanded our capabilities in providing foundational data engineering and cloud-based data and analytics advisory services through our acquisition of Enquero, Inc. We are also building and driving solutions around experience-led transformation. Using human-centric design, we help clients build new products and services, create digital workspaces, and drive customer, client, employee and partner engagement. We have significantly expanded our capabilities in experience, commerce and mobile application development in the past two years with the acquisitions of SomethingDigital.Com LLC in 2020, which added significant capabilities in digital commerce, and Rightpoint Consulting, LLC in 2019, which built on existing capabilities gained from our previous acquisitions of TandemSeven, Inc. and Endeavour Software Technologies Private Limited. Combined with our domain expertise, these acquisitions enhance our ability to bring end-to-end digital commerce solutions to the marketplace. 9 Our service offerings We offer the following professional services to our clients: Core industry operations specific to our chosen industry verticals; and Enterprise Services : Finance and accounting, supply chain, sourcing and procurement, and sales and commercial services. Core industry operations We help our clients design, transform and run core enterprise operations specific to their industries. On the foundation of domain expertise embedded in our Digital SEP frameworks, we use our Lean Digital approach to leverage digital technologies and specialized analytics to power Intelligent Operations. We provide core operations support in all of our chosen industry verticals. Enterprise services Finance and accounting services We believe we are one of the worlds premier providers of financial and accounting services. Our services in this area include: Accounts payable : document management, invoice processing, approval and resolution management, and travel and expense processing; Invoice-to-cash : customer master data management, credit and contract management, fulfillment, billing, collections, and dispute management services; Record-to-report : accounting, treasury, tax services, product cost accounting, and closing and reporting, including SEC and regulatory reporting; Financial planning and analysis : budgeting, forecasting, and business performance reporting; and Enterprise risk and compliance : operational risk and controls across a wide range of regulatory environments. Supply chain, sourcing and procurement and sales and commercial services Supply chain: we use our expertise in this area to help clients transform and run supply chain design, planning, inventory optimization, transportation and logistics management and after-sales services. Sourcing and procurement: We offer direct and indirect strategic sourcing, category management, spend analytics, procurement operations, master data management, and other procurement and supply chain advisory services. Sales and commercial: Our integrated services in this area are focused in three areas: Lead-to-quote customer relationship management, sales volume, pricing and promotion optimization, and contract and master data management; Quote-to-order order capture, validation and fulfillment; and Customer service (B2B) service management and experience, deduction and dispute management. 10 Industries we serve We work with clients across our chosen industry verticals, which are areas in which we believe we have deep industry acumen. Our chosen industry verticals, which are also our three reportable segments, are: (1) Banking, Capital Markets and Insurance, or BCMI, (2) Consumer Goods, Retail, Life Sciences and Healthcare, or CGRLH, and (3) High Tech, Manufacturing and Services, or HMS. Organizing our business by industry verticals allows us to leverage our deep domain knowledge specific to our chosen industries and create, replicate and standardize innovative solutions for clients in the same industries. In addition to our professional services, such as finance and accounting and supply chain and procurement, that are available to clients across our verticals, we offer core industry-specific services to clients in select verticals. These services are embedded where possible with industry-relevant digital and analytics tools that use AI and automation modules designed to drive enhanced benefits and customer experience. Banking, Capital Markets and Insurance Our banking and capital markets clients include retail, investment and commercial banks, mortgage lenders, equipment and lease financing providers, fintech companies, payment providers, wealth and asset management firms, broker/dealers, exchanges, clearing and settlement organizations and other financial services companies. Our core operations services for these clients include application processing, collections and customer services, equipment and auto loan servicing, mortgage origination and servicing, risk management and compliance services, reporting and monitoring services, wealth management operations support, end-to-end information technology services, application development and maintenance, managed services, financial crimes support and consulting. Our insurance clients include global property and casualty insurance carriers, reinsurers, insurance brokers, and life, annuity, disability and employee benefits insurance providers. Our core operations services for these clients include multi-channel support for underwriting services, policy administration, customer service, end-to-end claims management services, including adjudication, litigation support and payment disbursements, and actuarial services, including agency management, risk analytics, catastrophe modeling and operations analytics. Consumer Goods, Retail, Life Sciences and Healthcare Our consumer goods and retail clients include companies in the food and beverage, household goods, consumer health and beauty and apparel industries, as well as grocery chains and general and specialty retailers. The core operations services we provide to these clients include supply chain management, pricing and trade promotion management, order management, digital commerce, customer experience and risk management. Our life sciences and healthcare clients include pharmaceutical, medical technology, medical device and biotechnology companies as well as retail pharmacies, distributors, diagnostic labs, healthcare payers (health insurers) and providers, and pharmacy benefit managers. Our core operations services for life sciences clients include regulatory affairs services, such as lifecycle management, regulatory operations, Chemistry Manufacturing Controls compliance, safety and pharmacovigilance, and regulatory information management. Our services for healthcare clients include managing the end-to-end lifecycle of a claim, from claims processing and adjudication to claims recovery and payment integrity. 11 High Tech, Manufacturing and Services Our clients in the high tech industry vertical include companies in the information and digital technology, electronics, software, fintech, and e-commerce sectors. The core operations services we provide to these clients include industry-specific solutions for the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), user experience, order and supply chain management, data engineering, digital content management and risk management. Our manufacturing and services clients include companies in the automotive, chemicals, energy, hospitality, manufacturing, media and entertainment, transportation and logistics, and travel sectors. Our core operations solutions for these clients include industry-specific solutions for the IIoT, supply chain management, direct procurement and logistics services, aftermarket services support, industrial asset optimization and engineering services. Our clients We serve more than 700 clients across many industries and geographies. Our clients include some of the biggest brands in the world, many of which are leaders in their industries. GE GE has been our largest client since our inception and accounted for $459 million, or 12%, of our total net revenues in 2020. We serve several of GEs business units, including Aviation, Corporate, Healthcare, Industrial Finance, Power and Renewables. We provide broad services to GE across all of our service offerings. Commitments with respect to services we may perform for GE are set forth in statements of work, or SOWs, purchase orders and business services agreements, or BSAs, that we may enter into with individual GE business units from time to time. These SOWs, purchase orders and BSAs cover in more detail the type of work to be performed and the associated amounts to be billed. In general, each GE business unit decides whether to enter into a SOW, purchase order or BSA with us and on what terms it will do so. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, our revenues from GE come from many different businesses, each with its own leader who makes decisions about our services. Global clients We serve about one fourth of the Fortune Global 500. Our clients include industry leaders such as Aon, AstraZeneca, AXA, Bayer, Dentsu, Heineken, Hitachi, Konica Minolta, Novartis, Santander, Synchrony Financial and Sysco. Our net revenues from our clients other than GE, which we refer to as our Global Clients, have grown from $2.0 billion in 2015 to $3.3 billion in 2020, representing a compound annual growth rate of 10%. Our net revenues from Global Clients as a percentage of total net revenues increased from 81% in 2015 to 88% in 2020. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OverviewNet RevenuesClassification of Certain Net Revenues. Our contracts with clients for Intelligent Operations services often take the form of a master services agreement, or MSA, which is a framework agreement that we then supplement with SOWs. For transformation services, we typically enter into software-as-a-service and/or consulting agreements with our clients depending on the scope of the services to be performed. For more about our contracting frameworks, see Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewNet Revenues. 12 Our people As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 96,500 employees working in more than 30 countries. Our people are critical to the success of our business. We have created, and constantly reinforce, a culture that emphasizes collaboration, innovation, process improvement, and dedication to our clients. We seek to foster a culture that wins clients, develops leaders and attracts and retains talent who exhibit our core values curiosity, incisiveness and courage and who uphold our dedication to integrity consistent with our Code of Conduct, Integrity@Genpact. Rewarding and recognizing our talent We aim to create a work environment where every person is inspired to achieve, driven to perform and rewarded for their contributions. We strive to engage and competitively compensate our high-performing talent by providing performance-based promotions and merit-based compensation increases. We also regularly monitor employee retention levels and continue to enhance our pay-for-performance approach in an effort to retain our top talent. Diversity, equity and inclusion We believe that a culture of diversity, equity and inclusion is critical to our business. We believe in equal opportunity for each individual, irrespective of their gender, age, ethnicity, cultural background, race or sexual orientation. Understanding each others uniqueness, recognizing our differences, respecting varied opinions and accepting various points of view is at the heart of our organizations culture. We promote these values by seeking to maintain inclusive hiring and management practices and ensure that opportunities are equally open to all. We are committed to: Increasing diversity, including gender, racial and ethnic diversity, across all levels of the organization; Recruiting, retaining and advancing talent, including from diverse ethnic and racial backgrounds; and Creating and fostering an inclusive culture where everybody, including our LGBTQ+ employees, feels safe and empowered. Employee development and engagement We are committed to the career development of our employees and making them future-ready, and we strive to engage them with challenging and rewarding career opportunities. Our performance management approach supports our career philosophy by encouraging employees to reflect on their performance, set challenging goals, receive feedback, identify their development needs and find relevant learning and training opportunities. We have also developed a number of leadership development and mentoring programs, including our Global Operations Leadership Development and our Leadership Direct programs for high potential talent and our programs designed to increase gender diversity in our leadership ranks, such as our Pay it Forward and Womens Leadership initiatives. We have also developed a learning framework called Genome that enables our employees to acquire new skills and evolve quickly as industries and technologies change , equipping them with skills that are relevant to their current roles and future aspirations . Genome was designed to shape an adaptive workforce, and its learning strategy was formulated to reskill at scale and be integrated throughout the enterprise. TalentMatch is our talent transformation initiative to match the skills and job aspirations of our employees with existing and future job opportunities we have available. By enabling employees to prepare for their future career aspirations by upskilling and reskilling through Genome, TalentMatch has allowed us to identify talent available for redeployment from one part of our business to another as the needs of our clients change. It improves our employee utilization globally by providing the right talent at the right time for our client engagements. TalentMatch also gives our employees the opportunity to take their careers in 13 their desired directions, thus increasing employee satisfaction, and bolstering our ability to scale the work from anywhere model . Amber , our engagement AI chatbot and employee experience platform, enables transformation of our employee engagement strategy. Amber provides an outlet for unbiased and judgment free conversations for our employees and live predictive people analytics for business and HR leaders. By digitizing how we engage with our employees through Amber, we have increased the scope and frequency of employee feedback and have gained the ability to assess employee engagement and identify trends in employee engagement and satisfaction across the company. Corporate social responsibility Genpacts approach to corporate social responsibility focuses on three pillars that reflect our strengths, core expertise, and causes that our employees care about: Education and employability Diversity, equity and inclusion Sustainability We foster a culture of giving and volunteering through several global platforms, projects, and social initiatives. Our more than 40,000 employee volunteers have, among other things, helped underprivileged children get better access to education, assisted unemployed women in developing job skills, and worked on projects to help improve infrastructure and education in the communities in which we work and live. For example, in 2020, in an effort to combat pandemic-induced hunger, we launched our Feed 20 Million initiative, setting a goal to serve 20 million meals to people in need. Our volunteers enabled us to surpass our goals with nearly 25 million meals served. Additionally, more than 10,000 of our employees participate in our payroll-based charitable donation programs, and in 2020, many of our employee volunteers participated in micro-volunteering initiatives such as composting, planting saplings, or eliminating single-use plastic. We are also passionate about working collectively to reduce our carbon footprint and have set targets to reduce our environmental impact at regional or global levels. Partnerships and alliances We continue to invest in and expand our strategic alliances with companies whose services and solutions complement ours. Together, we work to enhance our existing solutions or create new offerings to meet market needs. Our alliances generally fall into one of the following categories: Strategic, go-to-market partnerships Deal-specific relationships to jointly solve a specific issue for a client Reseller arrangements to provide third party partner software and cloud solutions Digital and other white label embedded technology-based relationships We have three primary types of partners: consulting partners, digital partners, and solution partners. Our digital and solution partnerships aim to nurture relationships with established and emerging players. These potential partners specialize in leading-edge disruptive digital technologies and solutions that we can embed into our offerings or jointly bring to market. 14 Sales and marketing We market our services to both existing and potential clients through our business development team and our lead client partners and global relationship managers. Members of this team are based around the globe, including in the United States, United Kingdom, Europe, Australia and Asia, and dedicate their time to expanding the services we provide to our existing clients as well as acquiring new clients. We have designated lead client partners and global relationship managers for each of our strategic client relationships. The client partners and global relationship managers are supported by transformation partners as well as digital and analytics, process improvement, quality, transition, finance, human resources, information technology and industry/product subject matter expert teams to ensure we can best understand and address the needs of our clients. We constantly monitor our client satisfaction levels to ensure that we maintain high service levels for each client, using measures such as the Net Promoter Score. Our sales force is primarily organized by industry vertical teams that are supported by vertical-specific and horizontal service offerings. The length of our selling cycle varies depending on the type of engagement. The sales cycle for our advisory and project work is typically much shorter than the sales cycle for a large business process engagement. Our efforts may begin through an existing engagement with a client or in response to our lead generation program, a perceived opportunity, a reference by an existing client, a request for proposal or otherwise. Our teams seek to understand the needs and priorities of our clients as well as the business outcomes our clients desire, and we leverage our combination of digital and industry expertise to devise differentiated client solutions. We may expend substantial time and resources in engaging with prospective clients to secure new business. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewNet Revenues. As our relationship with a client deepens, the time required to win an engagement for additional services often gradually declines. In addition, during an engagement as we better understand and experience a clients business and processes, our ability to identify opportunities and deliver greater value for the client, including by leveraging Genpact Cora and our expanding portfolio of digital capabilities to transform our clients operations, typically increases. We also strive to foster relationships between our senior leadership team and our clients senior management. These C-level relationships ensure that both parties are focused on establishing priorities, aligning objectives and driving client value from the top down. High-level executive relationships present significant opportunities to increase business from our existing clients. These relationships also provide a forum for addressing client concerns. Our governance methodology is designed to ensure that we are well connected at all levels of our clients organizations (executive, management, technology and operations). Significant new business opportunities are reviewed by business leaders, lead client partners and global relationship managers from the applicable industry vertical along with operations personnel and members of our finance department. If they determine that the new business is aligned with our strategic objectives and a good use of our resources, then our business development team is authorized to pursue the opportunity. Global delivery We serve our clients using our global network of 86 delivery centers in 20 countries. We have delivery centers in Australia, Brazil, China, Costa Rica, Egypt, Germany, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, the United Kingdom and the United States. We also have many employees in these and additional countries, such as Canada, Ireland, Portugal, Singapore, Spain and Turkey, who work with our clients either onsite or virtually, which offers flexibility for both clients and employees. 15 With this global network, we are able to manage complex processes around the world. We use different locations for different types of services depending on client needs and the mix of skills and cost of employees at each location. Our global delivery model gives us: multilingual capabilities; access to a larger talent pool; near-shoring as well as off-shoring capabilities to take advantage of time zones; and proximity to our clients through a significant onshore presence. We also regularly look for new places to open delivery centers and offices, both in new countries or new cities in countries where we already have a presence. Before we choose a new location, we consider several factors, such as the talent pool, infrastructure, government support, operating costs, and client demand. Service delivery model We seek to be a seamless extension of our clients operations. To that end, we developed the Genpact Virtual Captive SM service delivery model, in which we create a virtual extension of our clients teams and environments. Our clients get dedicated employees and management, as well as dedicated infrastructure at our delivery centers. We also train our teams in our clients cultures, processes, and business environments. Intellectual Property The solutions we offer our clients often include a range of proprietary methodologies, software, and reusable knowledge capital. We also develop intellectual property in the course of our business and our agreements with our clients regulate the ownership of such intellectual property. We seek to protect our intellectual property and our brand through various means, including by agreement and applications for patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights and domain names. Some of our intellectual property rights are trade secrets and relate to proprietary business process enhancements. We often use third-party and client software platforms and systems to provide our services. Our agreements with our clients normally include a license to use the clients proprietary systems to provide our services. Clients authorize us to access and use third party software licenses held by the client so that we may provide our services. It is our practice to enter into agreements with our employees and independent contractors that: ensure that all new intellectual property developed by our employees or independent contractors in the course of their employment or engagement is assigned to us; provide for employees and independent contractors cooperation in intellectual property protection matters even if they no longer work for us; and include a confidentiality undertaking by our employees and independent contractors. 16 Competition We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving global market. We have a number of competitors offering services that are the same as or similar to ours. Our competitors include: large multinational service providers, primarily accounting and consulting firms, that provide consulting and other professional services; companies that are primarily business process service providers operating from low-cost countries, most commonly India; companies that are primarily information technology service providers with some business process service capabilities; and smaller, niche service providers that provide services in a specific geographic market, industry or service area, including digital. We may also face losses or potential losses of business when in-house departments of companies use their own resources rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services and solutions we provide. Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our industry include: deep expertise in industry-specific domains and processes; ability to advise clients on how to transform their processes and deliver transformation that drives business value; ability to provide innovative services and products, including digital offerings; ability to consistently add value through digital transformation and continuous process improvement; reputation and client references; contractual terms, including competitive pricing; scope of services; quality of products, services and solutions; ability to sustain long-term client relationships; and global reach and scale. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis. Regulation We are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions around the world as a result of the complexity of our operations and services, particularly in the countries where we have operations and where we deliver services. We are also subject to regulation by regional bodies such as the European Union, or EU. In addition, the terms of our service contracts typically require that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. In some of our service contracts, we are contractually required to comply even if such laws and regulations apply to our clients, but not to us, and sometimes our clients require us to take specific steps intended to make it easier for them to comply with applicable requirements. In some of our service contracts, our clients undertake the responsibility to inform us about laws and regulations that may apply to us in jurisdictions in which they are located. 17 If we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we may face restrictions on our ability to provide services, and may also be the subject of civil or criminal actions involving penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our clients generally have the right to terminate our contracts for cause in the event of regulatory failures, subject in some cases to notice periods. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our Business and Operations Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business. If we fail to comply with contractual commitments to facilitate our clients compliance, we may be liable for contractual damages, and clients in regulated industries may be less willing to use our services. We are affected by laws and regulations in the United States, the United Kingdom, the EU and its member states, and other countries in which we do business that are intended to limit the impact of outsourcing on employees in those jurisdictions, and occasional changes to laws and regulations in such jurisdictions may impose changes that further restrict or discourage offshore outsourcing or otherwise harm our business. See Item 1ARisk FactorsRisks Related to our Business and OperationsFuture legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. Our collection, use, disclosure and retention of personal health-related and other information is subject to an array of privacy, data security, and data breach notification laws and regulations that change frequently, are inconsistent across the jurisdictions in which we do business, and impose significant compliance costs. In the United States, personal information is subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations relating to privacy, data security, and breach notification, including, for example, the Financial Modernization Act (sometimes referred to as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Federal Trade Commission Act, Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, Communications Act, Electronic Communications Privacy Act, and the California Consumer Privacy Act. All fifty U.S. states and the District of Columbia have implemented separate data security and breach notification laws with which we must comply; in addition, some states have strengthened their existing laws. Some courts have become more willing to allow individuals to pursue claims in data breach cases, indicating that it may become easier for consumers to sue companies for data breaches. Related laws and regulations govern our direct marketing activities and our use of personal information for direct marketing, including the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act, Telemarketing Sales Rule, Telephone Consumer Protection Act and rules promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission, and CAN-SPAM Act. In 2018, the Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data, or CLOUD, Act established new required processes and procedures for handling U.S. law enforcement requests for data that we may store outside of the U.S. In the EU, the General Data Protection Regulation, or the GDPR, went into effect in May 2018. The GDPR imposes privacy and data security compliance obligations and increased penalties for noncompliance. In particular, the GDPR has introduced numerous privacy-related changes for companies operating in the EU, including greater control for data subjects, increased data portability for EU consumers, data breach notification requirements and increased fines for violations. Additionally, foreign governments outside of the EU are also taking steps to fortify their data privacy laws and regulations. For example, India, as well as some countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America, have either passed data privacy legislation or are considering data protection laws that affect or may affect Genpact. Evolving laws and regulations in India protecting the use of personal information could also impact our engagements with clients, vendors and employees in India. As privacy laws and regulations around the world continue to evolve, these changes could adversely affect our business operations, websites and mobile applications that are accessed by residents in the applicable countries. 18 In the United States, we are either directly subject to, or contractually required to comply or facilitate our clients compliance with, laws and regulations arising out of our work for clients operating there, especially in the area of banking, financial services and insurance, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Service Company Act, the Home Owners Loan Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and regulation by U.S. agencies such as the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Because of our debt collections work in the United States, we are also regulated by laws such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and related regulations. We are currently licensed to engage in debt collection activities in all jurisdictions in the United States where licensing is required. U.S. banking and debt collection laws and their implementing regulations are occasionally amended, and these changes may impose new obligations on us or may change existing obligations. Because of our insurance processing activities in the United States, we are currently licensed as a third-party administrator in 41 states and are regulated by the department of insurance in each such state. In two other states, we qualify for regulatory exemption from licensing based on the insurance processing activities we provide. We also hold entity adjuster licenses in 22 states that require licensing. In the United States, we are subject to laws and regulations governing foreign trade, such as export control, customs and sanctions regulations maintained by government bodies such as the Commerce Departments Bureau of Industry and Security, the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control, and the Homeland Security Departments Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. Other jurisdictions, such as the EU, also maintain similar laws and regulations that apply to some of our operations. Several of our service delivery centers, primarily located in India, China, the Philippines and Guatemala, benefit from tax incentives or concessional rates provided by local laws and regulations. The Indian Special Economic Zones Act of 2005, or SEZ legislation, introduced a tax holiday in certain situations for operations established in designated special economic zones, or SEZs. The SEZ tax benefits are available only for new business operations that are conducted at qualifying SEZ locations. We cannot predict what percentage of our operations or income in India or other jurisdictions in future years will be eligible for a tax holiday. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewNet RevenuesIncome Taxes. In addition to the tax holidays described above, certain benefits are also available to us as an information technology enabled service (ITES) company under certain Indian state and central laws. These benefits include rebates and waivers in relation to payments for the transfer or registration of property (including for the purchase or lease of premises), waivers of conversion fees for land, exemption from state pollution control requirements, entry tax exemptions, labor law exemptions, commercial usage of electricity and incentives related to the export of qualified services. Our hedging activities and currency transfer are restricted by regulations in certain countries, including China, India, the Philippines and Romania. Certain Bermuda Law Considerations As a Bermuda company, we are also subject to regulation in Bermuda. Among other things, we must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda as amended, or the Companies Act, regulating the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions from contributed surplus. 19 We are classified as a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Pursuant to our non-resident status, we may engage in transactions in currencies other than Bermuda dollars. There are no restrictions on our ability to transfer funds in and out of Bermuda or to pay dividends to United States residents that are holders of our common shares. Under Bermuda law, exempted companies are companies formed for the purpose of conducting business outside Bermuda. As an exempted company, we may not, without a license granted by the Minister of Finance, participate in certain business transactions, including transactions involving Bermuda landholding rights and the carrying on of business of any kind, for which we are not licensed in Bermuda. Bermuda has economic substance requirements pursuant to the Economic Substance Act 2018, as amended, and the regulations proffered thereunder, which require us to have adequate economic substance in Bermuda in relation to certain of our activities. Available Information We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec .gov. We make available free of charge on our website, www.genpact .com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 20 Information about our executive officers The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers as of March 1, 2021: Name Age Position(s) N.V. Tyagarajan 59 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Edward Fitzpatrick 54 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Cogny 54 Senior Vice President, High Tech, Manufacturing and Services Balkrishan Kalra 51 Senior Vice President, Banking, Capital Markets, Consumer Goods, Retail, Life Sciences and Healthcare Piyush Mehta 52 Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer Darren Saumur 53 Senior Vice President, Global Operating Officer Kathryn Stein 43 Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer and Business Leader, Enterprise Services Heather White 48 Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary N.V. Tyagarajan has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since June 2011. From February 2009 to June 2011, he was our Chief Operating Officer. From February 2005 to February 2009, he was our Executive Vice President and Head of Sales, Marketing and Business Development. From October 2002 to January 2005, he was Senior Vice President, Quality and Global Operations, for GEs Commercial Equipment Finance division. Edward Fitzpatrick has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since July 2014. Prior to joining Genpact, he spent 13 years at Motorola Solutions Inc. and its predecessor company Motorola Inc., most recently serving as executive vice president and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to Motorola, he worked at General Instrument Corporation, which was acquired by Motorola Inc., and Price Waterhouse, LLP. Mr. Fitzpatrick also currently serves as a director of CBOE Global Markets, Inc. Patrick Cogny has served as our Senior Vice President, Manufacturing and Services since September 2011 and has also been responsible for our High Tech business since January 2017. From 2005 to August 2011, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Genpact Europe. Prior to this, he spent 15 years working for GE in the Healthcare business and in the GE Europe corporate headquarters, in France, the United States and Belgium. Balkrishan Kalra has served as our Senior Vice President, Consumer Goods, Retail and Life Sciences since 2008, has led our Healthcare business since 2016 and in 2020 assumed responsibility for our Banking and Capital Markets business. Prior to his current role, he held various roles at Genpact since joining us in 1999. Piyush Mehta has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since March 2005. He has worked for us since 2001, initially as Vice President of Human Resources. Darren Saumur has served as our Senior Vice President, Global Operating Officer since April 2018. Prior to joining Genpact, he was an executive vice president responsible for the services business at Infor from 2014 to 2018. From 2005 to 2014, he worked at SAP where he ran SAPs global consulting businesses. Mr. Saumur began his career at Ernst & Young, where he worked from 1991 to 2005. Kathryn Stein has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer since December 2016 and has also been responsible for our Enterprise Services business since February 2019. Prior to joining Genpact, Ms. Stein was at Mercer for six years, most recently as a Partner and Market Business Leader. Before Mercer, she worked with Boston Consulting Group, the Center for Strategic and International Studies and MarketBridge Consulting. Heather White has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary since April 2018. Ms. White has been with Genpact since 2005, and served most recently as our Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel. Prior to joining Genpact, she was a corporate attorney in the New York and London offices of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP. 21 Item 1A. R isk Factors Risks Related to our Business and Operations Our business and results of operations have been adversely impacted and may in the future be adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a widespread and detrimental effect on the global economy and has adversely impacted our business and results of operations. Because the severity, magnitude and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic consequences are highly uncertain, rapidly changing and difficult to predict, the ultimate impact of the pandemic on our business, financial condition and results of operations is currently unknown. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to adversely impact our business and results of operations will depend on future developments that are currently difficult to predict and outside of our control, including: the distribution and effectiveness of vaccines; future mutations of the COVID-19 virus and any resulting impact on the effectiveness of vaccines; the ultimate duration and scope of the pandemic; actions taken by governments and other parties, such as our clients, in response to the pandemic, including any future actions to contain, treat or prevent the virus; the impact of the pandemic on economic activity and actions taken in response; the effect of the pandemic on our clients and client demand for our services and solutions; the ability of our clients to pay for our services and solutions on time or at all; our ability to sell and provide our services and solutions to clients and prospects; and the ability of our employees to continue to be productive and maintain morale while working remotely. In the interest of the health and safety of our employees and due in part to restrictions imposed by national or local governments in places where we operate, we have enabled most of our employees to work remotely. This effort has posed, and continues to pose, numerous operational risks and logistical challenges, and has created new costs, diverted management attention and corporate resources, and amplified certain risks to our business, including increased: (a) demand on our information technology resources and systems that were initially designed for use in our delivery centers only, (b) phishing, ransomware and other cybersecurity attacks, and (c) data privacy and security risks as our employees are working from environments that may be less secure than those of our delivery centers. Any failure to effectively manage these risks, including to timely identify and appropriately respond to any cyberattacks, may adversely affect our business. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, in early 2020 our existing and prospective clients slowed decision-making and planned work, including discretionary consulting services and other transformation services. These factors and an overall decline in economic activity had an adverse impact on our total bookings for 2020, which were lower than in 2019. If the pandemic worsens, we could again see reduced demand or delayed client decision-making, which could negatively impact our bookings in 2021. In addition, we took a series of actions during 2020 to address the challenges being placed on our operations by the pandemic and the potential impact to our business in the near term and to protect the long-term health of our business. For additional information, see Note 29Restructuring to our consolidated financial statements under Part IV, Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. Our efforts to mitigate the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business may not be effective, and we may be required to take additional actions to protect the long-term health of our business. We may also be affected by a protracted economic downturn. Additionally, a significant worsening of the pandemic could materially impair our ability to deliver services to clients and could in turn have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience negative impacts to our business as a result of the pandemics global economic impact. Further, as this pandemic is unprecedented and continuously evolving, it may also affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us or in a manner that we currently do not consider will present significant risks to us or our operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has led to significant volatility in financial markets, and has at times impacted, and may again impact, our share price and trading in our common shares. The overall uncertainty regarding the future economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact on our revenue growth 22 could also impact our cash flows from operations and liquidity. Material changes to our cash flows, liquidity and the volatility of the stock market and our share price could impact our capital allocation strategy, including our quarterly dividend and our share repurchase program. A sset impairment charges, extreme currency exchange-rate fluctuations and an inability to recover costs or lost revenues or profits from insurance carriers could all adversely affect us, our financial condition and our results of operations. Additionally, future disruptions and volatility in global and domestic capital markets could increase the cost of capital and limit our ability to access capital. Any of the foregoing could amplify the risks and uncertainties outlined in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or share price. Our success largely depends on our ability to achieve our business strategies, and our results of operations and financial condition may suffer if we are unable to continually develop and successfully execute our strategies. Our future growth, profitability and cash flows largely depend upon our ability to continually develop and successfully execute our business strategies. While we have confidence that our strategic plans reflect opportunities that are appropriate and achievable, the execution of our strategy may not result in long-term growth in revenue or profitability due to a number of factors, including incorrect assumptions, global or local economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we operate, sub-optimal resource allocation or any of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. In pursuit of our growth strategy, we may also invest significant time and resources into new product or service offerings, and these offerings may fail to yield sufficient return to cover our investments in them. The failure to continually develop and execute optimally on our business strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be liable to our clients or others for damages, subject to criminal liability, fines or penalties, and our reputation could be damaged, if our information systems are breached or confidential or sensitive client or employee data is compromised. We are often required to collect, process and store proprietary, personally identifying or other sensitive or confidential client data in the operation of our business or in connection with the services we provide under our contracts, including, for example, names, addresses, social security numbers, personal health information, credit card account numbers, payment history records, and checking and savings account numbers. In addition, we collect, process and store data regarding our employees and contractors. As a result, we are subject to numerous data protection and privacy laws and regulations designed to protect this information in the countries in which we operate as well as the countries of residence of the persons whose data we process. Data may be accessed, disclosed or modified improperly as a result of theft, error or malfeasance by our employees, contractors or other third parties, and others may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, clients or other third parties into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data or IT systems or our clients', contractors or other third parties' data or IT systems. If any person, including any of our current or former employees or contractors, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our or our clients established controls with respect to sensitive data or if we do not adapt to changes in data protection legislation, we could be subject to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. In addition, the products, services and software that we provide to our clients, or the third-party components we use to provide such products, services and software, may contain or introduce cybersecurity threats or vulnerabilities to our clients information technology networks, intentionally or unintentionally. Our clients may maintain their own proprietary, sensitive, or confidential information that could be compromised in a cybersecurity attack, or their systems may be disabled or disrupted as a result of such an attack. Our clients, regulators, or other third parties may attempt to hold us liable, through contractual indemnification clauses or directly, for any such losses or damages resulting from such an attack. The threat of incursion into our information systems and technology infrastructure has increased and evolved in recent years with the increasing number and sophistication of third parties who have hacked, attacked, disrupted or otherwise invaded information systems of other companies and misappropriated or disclosed data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently or may be designed to remain dormant until a predetermined event and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these 23 techniques, detect when an incursion has occurred or implement adequate preventative and responsive measures. The steps we have taken to protect our information systems and data security may be inadequate. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure (including due to aged IT systems or infrastructure) or otherwise, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and our reputation could be harmed and we could lose existing or potential clients. Media or other reports of perceived breaches or weaknesses in our systems, products or networks , even if nothing has actually been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially affect our business. In addition, we may not be able to prevent others from using our data and proprietary information to compete with us. Existing trade secret, copyright and trademark laws offer only limited protection. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our data and proprietary information at all. For example, doing business in certain jurisdictions poses risks, including but not limited to theft of intellectual property and data and potentially different treatment of foreign owned intellectual property rights and data than intellectual property or data that is owned or developed in such jurisdictions. If we have to resort to legal proceedings to enforce our rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, protracted, distracting to management and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk and be unsuccessful. Our clients, suppliers, subcontractors, and other third parties with whom we do business, including in particular cloud service providers and software vendors, generally face similar cybersecurity threats, and we must rely on the safeguards adopted by these parties. If these third parties do not have adequate safeguards or their safeguards fail, it might result in breaches of our systems or applications and unauthorized access to or disclosure of our and our clients confidential data. In addition, we are regularly alerted to vulnerabilities in third-party technology components we use in our business that create vulnerabilities in our environments. We typically are not aware of such vulnerabilities until we receive notice from the third parties who have created the exposure, and our responses to such vulnerabilities may not be adequate or prompt enough to prevent their exploitation. We may also be liable to our clients or others for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information or system failures. Many of our contracts do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. We may also be subject to civil actions and criminal prosecution by governments or government agencies for breaches relating to such data. Our insurance coverage or indemnification protections for breaches or mismanagement of such data may not be adequate to cover all costs related to data loss, cybersecurity attacks, or disruptions resulting from such events, or they may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claims. The impact of these cybersecurity attacks, data losses, and other security breaches cannot be predicted, but any such attack, loss or breach could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our clients, suppliers, subcontractors, or other third parties. Incidents of this type could require significant management attention and resources, could result in the loss of business, regulatory enforcement and financial liability, and could harm our reputation among our clients and the public, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. While we have developed and implemented security measures and internal controls designed to prevent, detect and respond to cyber and other security threats and incidents, such measures cannot guarantee security and may not be successful in preventing security breaches. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to regular incursion attempts from a variety of sources, and we have experienced data security incidents such as inadvertent or unauthorized disclosures of data, including as a result of phishing or malware, and other unauthorized access to or use of our systems or those of third parties. To date such incidents have not had a material impact on our operations or financial results; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. Additionally, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the majority of our employees are now working from home in environments that may not be as controlled or secure as our offices and delivery centers, which increases the risk of data breaches, incursions into our IT systems or other cyber incidents. Measures we have taken during the pandemic to implement suitable additional controls and educate our employees on the importance of cybersecurity and related best practices may not prevent data breaches or other incursions, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations. 24 Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. We have employees in more than 30 countries and significant operations in 20 countries, and these global operations could be disrupted at any time by natural or other disasters, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, extreme weather conditions (whether as a result of climate change or otherwise), medical epidemics or pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. In addition, global climate change may result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, drought, wildfires, sea-level rise, heavy rains and flooding, and any such disaster or series of disasters in areas where we have a concentration of employees, such as India, could significantly disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations could also be disrupted as a result of technological failures, such as electricity or infrastructure breakdowns, including damage to telecommunications cables, computer glitches and electronic viruses, or human-caused events such as protests, riots, labor unrest and cyberattacks. Such events, or any natural or weather-related disaster, could lead to the disruption of information systems and telecommunication services for sustained periods. Damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of services could adversely affect our reputation, our relationships with our clients, our leadership teams ability to administer and supervise our business or it may cause us to incur substantial additional expenditure to repair or replace damaged equipment or delivery centers. Our operations and those of our significant suppliers and distributors could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, such as those listed above. Even if our operations are unaffected or recover quickly from any such events, if our clients cannot timely resume their own operations due to a catastrophic event, they may reduce or terminate our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We may also be liable to our clients for disruption in service resulting from such damage or destruction. Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be effective at preventing or mitigating the effects of any of the foregoing business disruptions, particularly in the case of a catastrophic event. Prolonged disruption of our services would also entitle our clients to terminate their contracts with us. While we currently have commercial liability insurance, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Furthermore, we may be unable to secure such insurance coverage at premiums acceptable to us in the future or at all. Any of the above factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients businesses and levels of business activity. Global macroeconomic conditions affect our clients businesses and the markets they serve. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions in our significant markets have in the past undermined and could in the future undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other markets, which are increasingly interdependent, and cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new initiatives, or may result in clients reducing, delaying or eliminating spending under existing contracts with us, which would negatively affect our business. Growth in the markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate or contract, in each case, for an extended period of time. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate and the industries we serve have affected and may in the future affect demand for our services. A material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our clients in North America and Europe. Weak demand in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, major political events, including the United Kingdoms withdrawal from the European Union, or Brexit, create uncertainty for businesses such as ours that operate in these markets. While the United Kingdom and EU have concluded a trade agreement, effective December 31, 2020, the trade agreement does not adequately address a number of topics that are relevant to our operations in Europe, such as privacy regulations, immigration laws and employment laws. Accordingly, we continue to face uncertainty 25 in our operations as to the impact of Brexit on, among other things, the free movement of our employees between the United Kingdom and EU member states and the movement of data between the United Kingdom and EU member states. Additionally, uncertainty as to the future trade terms between the United Kingdom and the EU could negatively impact our clients who are based or have operations in the United Kingdom or the EU, including clients in the financial services sector, and as a consequence could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, a significant portion of our revenues from clients in the United Kingdom is generated in British pounds. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that revenues from clients based in the United Kingdom will be affected by adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We continue to examin e the various possible impacts Brexit may have on o ur business and operating model . Any of these factors, or the final terms of the trade agreement between the United Kingdom and the EU, could adversely affect global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty and changing demand patterns, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, affect our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand and effectively build our revenue and resource plans. Economic volatility and uncertainty are particularly challenging because it may take some time for the effects and changes in demand patterns resulting from these and other factors to manifest themselves in our business and results of operations. Changing demand patterns from economic volatility and uncertainty could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, and a significant reduction in such demand or an inability to respond to the evolving technological environment could materially affect our results of operations. Our revenue and profitability depend on the demand for our services and solutions with favorable margins, which could be negatively affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology and offerings to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Examples of areas of significant change include digital- and cloud-related offerings, which are continually evolving as developments such as AI, automation, Internet of Things and as-a-service solutions are commercialized. Technological developments such as these may materially affect the cost and use of technology by our clients and, in the case of as-a-service solutions, could affect the nature of how we generate revenue. Some of these technologies, such as cloud-based services, AI and automation, and others that may emerge, have reduced and replaced some of our historical services and solutions and may continue to do so in the future. This has caused, and may in the future cause, clients to delay spending under existing contracts and engagements and to delay entering into new contracts while they evaluate new technologies. Such delays can negatively impact our results of operations if the pace and level of spending on new technologies is not sufficient to make up any shortfall. Developments in the industries we serve, which may be rapid, also could shift demand to new services and solutions. If, as a result of new technologies or changes in the industries we serve, our clients demand new services and solutions, we may be less competitive in these new areas or need to make significant investment to meet that demand. Our growth strategy focuses on responding to these types of developments by driving innovation that will enable us to expand our business into new growth areas. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and adapt to industry developments, or evolve and expand our business at sufficient speed and scale, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments and successfully drive innovation, our services and solutions, our results of operations, and our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and to execute on our growth strategy could be negatively affected. Companies in the industries we serve sometimes seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for the services and solutions we offer, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work if we are not successful in generating new opportunities from the merger or consolidation. 26 Tax matters may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions, notably in India where we have substantial operations. Our provision for income taxes, actual tax expense and tax liability could be adversely affected by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, lower income before taxes generated in countries with lower tax rates; higher income generated in countries with higher tax rates; changes in tax laws and regulations or interpretations thereof; changes in applicable income tax treaties; changes in accounting principles or interpretations thereof or in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; the elimination or expiration of certain tax concessions, exemptions or holidays that had reduced our tax liability; and adverse outcomes of tax examinations or tax-related litigation, including a determination by any tax authority that our transfer prices are not appropriate. Additionally, the results of the 2020 U.S. presidential election could lead to changes in tax laws that could negatively impact our effective tax rate. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and tax authorities around the world, notably in India where we have substantial operations. Negative outcomes from those examinations or any appeals therefrom may adversely affect our provision for income taxes and tax liability, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. For example, the Government of India has appealed a 2011 ruling by the Delhi High Court that Genpact India Private Limited (one of our subsidiaries) cannot be held to be a representative assessee of GE in connection with an assertion that GE has tax liability in India by reason of a 2004 transfer of shares of our predecessor company. We believe that, if the Government of India is successful in its appeal, GE would be obligated to indemnify us for any resulting tax, though there can be no assurance as to the outcome of this matter. In addition, the Government of India issued assessment orders to us in 2014, 2016 and 2019 seeking to assess tax on certain transactions that occurred in 2009, 2013 and 2015. We have received demands for potential tax claims related to these orders in an aggregate amount of $150 million, including interest through the date of the orders. We do not believe that the transactions should be subject to tax in India under applicable law and have accordingly not provided a reserve for such exposure and have filed the necessary appeals. We have received favorable orders from appellate authorities relating to demands of $135 million and are pursuing refunds of $55 million we previously paid toward these demands. The tax authorities may appeal these orders in a higher court. In the event we do not prevail in these matters, the total amounts owed in connection with these demands would be subject to additional interest accrued over the period since the demands were made, and the amount of this additional interest could be material. There is no assurance that we will prevail in these matters or similar transactions, and a final determination of tax in the amounts claimed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. See Note 28Commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements under Part IV, Item 15Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules for additional information relating to these matters. Additionally, the Indian tax authorities may claim that Indian tax is owed with respect to certain of our transactions, such as our acquisitions (including our subsidiaries organized under Indian law or owning assets located in India), internal reorganizations and the sale of our shares in public offerings or otherwise by our existing significant shareholders, in which indirect transfers of Indian subsidiaries or assets are involved. Those authorities may seek to impose tax on us directly or as a withholding agent or representative assessee of the seller in these or other transactions. Effective July 1, 2017, a Goods and Services Tax (GST) was introduced in India, replacing an existing service tax regime and multiple similar indirect taxes. The implementation of the GST continues to evolve, with the Government of India introducing regular amendments and issuing clarifications. In the second quarter of 2020, Indian tax authorities began challenging or rejecting certain of our GST and service tax refunds. W e had requested these refunds pursuant to the tax exemption available for exports under service tax and GST regimes in respect of services performed by us in India for affiliates and clients outside of India. In denying the refunds, the taxing authorities have taken the position that the services we provided are local services, which interpretation, if correct, would make the GST exemption on exports unavailable to us in respect of such services. We believe that the denial of the GST exemption is incorrect, and we are 27 pursuing appeals before relevant appellate authorities. The Government of India may issue further clarifications on the matter . However, there is no assurance that we will prevail in this matter. Further, if it is finally determined that we do not qualify for the service tax/ GST exemption on the services we provide in India for clients located outside of India, we could be subject to additional tax on all of such services at a rate of 18%. The imposition of this additional tax on a significant percentage of the services we perform or have performed in India would likely have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flows and could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, there is growing pressure in many jurisdictions, including the United States, and from multinational organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or the OECD, and the EU to amend existing international tax rules in order to render them more responsive to current global business practices. For example, the OECD has published a package of measures for reform of the international tax rules as a product of its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or the BEPS, initiative, which was endorsed by the G20 finance ministers. Many of the initiatives in the BEPS package require amendments to the domestic tax legislation of various jurisdictions. Separately, the EU is asserting that a number of country-specific favorable tax regimes and rulings in certain member states may violate, or have violated, EU law, and may require rebates of some or all of the associated tax benefits to be paid by benefitted taxpayers in particular cases. In 2016, the EU adopted the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive which requires EU member states to implement measures to prohibit tax avoidance practices. In addition, in December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) became law in the U.S., bringing about far-ranging changes to the existing corporate tax system. The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously required and requires us to make assumptions and judgments in the interpretation of the law where sufficient guidance is not available. As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the Tax Act, our results may differ from previous estimates and our tax liabilities may materially increase. See Future legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services below in this Risk Factors section. Although we monitor these developments, it is very difficult to assess to what extent changes and other proposals, if enacted, may be implemented in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we conduct our business or may impact the way in which we conduct our business or our effective tax rate due to their unpredictability and interdependency. As these and other tax laws and related regulations and practices change, those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. Wage increases in the countries where we operate may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margin. Salaries and related benefits of our employees are our most significant costs. Most of our employees are based in India and other countries in which wage levels have historically been significantly lower than wage levels in the United States and Western Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage levels for comparably skilled employees in most of the countries in which we operate have increased and further increases are expected at a faster rate than in the United States and Western Europe because of, among other reasons, faster economic growth, increased competition for skilled employees and increased demand for business process services. We will lose this competitive advantage to the extent that we are not able to control or share wage increases with our clients. Sharing wage increases may cause our clients to be less willing to utilize our services. In addition, wage increases may reduce our profitability. We will attempt to control such costs by our efforts to add capacity in locations where we consider wage levels of skilled personnel to be satisfactory, but we may not be successful in doing so. We may need to increase our wage levels significantly and rapidly in order to attract the quantity and quality of employees that are necessary for us to remain competitive, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 28 In addition, in early 2019, the Supreme Court of India clarified that certain allowances paid by an employer to an employee should be included for purposes of calculating provident fund contributions in addition to contributions based on basic wages alone . If this decision is implemented with retrospective application, the amount of the payments that we are required to make at that time to or for the benefit of our employees could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have also increased, and expect to further increase, the number of employees we have in the United States from the levels that we have had historically, and this could have a negative effect on our profitability. In addition, we engage independent contractors in various U.S. states in the ordinary course of business. A handful of U.S. states have enacted legislation that requires businesses to consider individuals to be employees who, under current law in most other U.S. states, would be considered independent contractors. The U.S. Congress may seek to pass similar legislation at a national level across all 50 U.S. states. If additional states or the U.S. federal government pass similar legislation, we may be required to modify our hiring plans and associated business model, which may increase our cost of doing business. In 2021, the Government of India is expected to make effective new labor codes, which, among other things, change the definition of wages for purposes of determining employer contributions under the provident fund and other statutory benefit schemes, including the Indian gratuity plan. As a result of this pending legislation, our compensation cost in India may increase, which could adversely affect our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to claims and lawsuits for substantial damages, including by our clients arising out of disruptions to their businesses or our inadequate performance of services. We depend in large part on our relationships with clients and our reputation for high-quality services to generate revenue and secure future engagements. Most of our service contracts with clients contain service level and performance requirements, including requirements relating to the quality of our services. Failure to consistently meet service requirements of a client, whether due to: (a) natural or other disasters, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, extreme weather conditions (whether as a result of climate change or otherwise), medical epidemics, pandemics or other contagious diseases (such as COVID-19) or other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events; (b) breach of or incursion into our computer systems (for example, through a ransomware attack); (c) other systems failure, including due to aged IT systems or infrastructure; or (d) errors made by our employees in the course of delivering services to our clients could disrupt the clients business and result in a reduction in our revenues, clients terminating their business relationships with us and/or a claim for damages against us. Additionally, we could incur liability if a process we manage for a client were to result in internal control failures or impair our clients ability to comply with its own internal control requirements. We are also subject to actual and potential claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings outside of errors and omissions claims. For example, we engage in trust and safety services on behalf of clients, including content moderation, which could have a negative impact on our employees performing such services due to the nature of the materials they review. These types of services have been the subject of negative media coverage as well as litigation, and we may face adverse judgments or settlements or damage to our brand or reputation as a result of our provision of these services. Under our MSAs with our clients, our liability for breach of our obligations is generally limited to actual damages suffered by the client and is typically capped at an agreed amount. These limitations and caps on liability may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients or liability for breaches of confidentiality, are generally not limited under those agreements. Our MSAs are governed by laws of multiple jurisdictions, therefore the interpretation of such provisions, and the availability of defenses to us, may vary, which may contribute to the uncertainty as to the scope of our potential liability. Although we have commercial general liability insurance coverage, the coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claims. 29 The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements), could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. It is also possible that future results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable resolution of these matters. In addition, these matters divert management and personnel resources away from operating our business. Even if we do not experience significant monetary costs, there may be adverse publicity or social media attention associated with these matters that could result in reputational harm, either to us directly or to the industries or geographies we operate in, that may materially adversely affect our business, client or employee relationships. Further, defending against these claims can involve potentially significant costs, including legal defense costs. Future legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. In the United States, federal and state measures aimed at limiting or restricting, or requiring disclosure of offshore outsourcing have been occasionally proposed and enacted. In addition, public figures in the United States continue to suggest that U.S. businesses be subjected to tax or other adverse consequences for outsourcing, with incentives for returning outsourced operations to the United States, although it is not known what specific measures might be proposed or how they would be implemented and enforced, or whether emerging or enacted tax reform or other near-term Congressional action will affect companies outsourcing practices. For example, in 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act authorized a short-lived business loan program that prohibited loan recipients from outsourcing or offshoring jobs for the term of the loan and two years after completing repayment of the loan. One pending legislative proposal in the U.S. Congress would extend export control regulations and licensing requirements to certain exports of personal information. In January 2021, the new U.S. President established a national Made in America policy to use the terms and conditions of Federal financial assistance awards and Federal procurements to maximize the use of goods, products, and materials produced in, and services offered in, the United States. It is not yet known how this policy will be implemented and whether its impact will extend beyond Federal financial assistance and procurement. There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation or executive action in the United States that would significantly adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition will not be enacted. Legislation enacted in certain European jurisdictions and any future legislation in Europe, Japan or any other country in which we have clients restricting the performance of business process services from an offshore location or imposing burdens on companies that outsource data processing functions could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, evolving EU cloud computing standards and regulations and proposed taxes on outsourced data center activities or new EU and Japanese regulations on international transfers of personal data may limit or restrict our operations, or make them more costly. Moreover, legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and by many EU countries provides that if a company outsources all or part of its business to a service provider or changes its current service provider, the affected employees of the company or of the previous service provider are entitled to become employees of the new service provider, generally on the same terms and conditions as their original employment. In addition, dismissals of employees who were employed by the company or the previous service provider immediately prior to that outsourcing, if the dismissals resulted solely or principally from the outsourcing, are automatically considered unfair dismissals that entitle such employees to compensation. As a result, in order to avoid unfair dismissal claims we may have to offer, and become liable for, voluntary redundancy payments to the employees of our clients in the United Kingdom and other EU countries who have adopted similar laws who transfer business to us. Additionally, the United Kingdoms exit from the EU and the associated changes in trade relations could result in increased costs, delays, and regulatory complexity in our business involving the United Kingdom. 30 Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business. We are subject to, or subject to contractual requirements to comply with or facilitate our clients compliance with, numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters such as anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, taxation, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, wage-and-hour standards, and employment and labor relations. Our clients business operations are also subject to numerous regulations, and our clients may require that we perform our services in compliance with regulations applicable to them or in a manner that will enable them to comply with such regulations. The global nature of our operations increases the difficulty of compliance. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us and/or our employees, prohibitions on doing business, breach of contract damages and harm to our reputation. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws may not be well developed or provide sufficiently clear guidance and may be insufficient to protect our rights. In particular, our collection, use, disclosure, and retention of personal health-related and other information is subject to an array of privacy, data security, and data breach notification laws and regulations that change frequently, are inconsistent across the jurisdictions in which we do business, and impose significant compliance costs. Changes in these laws and regulations and inconsistencies in the standards that apply to our business in different jurisdictions may impose significant compliance costs, reduce the efficiency of our operations, and expose us to enforcement risks. In the United States, all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands have enacted legislation requiring notice to individuals of security breaches of information involving personally identifiable information. In addition, the California Consumer Privacy Act, or the CCPA, went into effect in January 2020. The CCPA imposes privacy and data security obligations on companies and provides California consumers with certain rights as data subjects. Several other U.S. states have proposed data privacy laws that impose similar but non-identical obligations. In addition, some states have passed laws imposing increased data security and breach notification obligations on companies operating in the U.S. In the EU, the General Data Protection Regulation, or the GDPR, imposes privacy and data security compliance obligations and significant penalties for noncompliance. The GDPR presents numerous privacy-related changes for companies operating in the EU, including rights guaranteed to data subjects, requirements for data portability for EU consumers, data breach notification requirements and significant fines for noncompliance. In GDPR enforcement matters, companies have faced fines for violations of certain provisions. Fines can reach as high as 4% of a companys annual total revenue, potentially including the revenue of a companys international affiliates. Additionally, foreign governments outside of the EU are also taking steps to fortify their data privacy laws and regulations. For example, some countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America, including Brazil and Egypt, where we have operations, are implementing or considering GDPR-like data protection laws. Evolving laws and regulations in India protecting the use of personal information could also impact our engagements with clients, vendors and employees in India. One proposal currently being considered in India relates to the regulation of cross-border transfers of sensitive personal information and has potentially broad-reaching implications in the backdrop of cloud computing. Given the size and scope of our operations in India, the costs of compliance with Indian data privacy laws, and any fines or penalties for breaches thereof, could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As privacy laws and regulations around the world continue to evolve, these changes and others could adversely affect our business operations, websites and mobile applications that are accessed by residents in the applicable countries. In addition, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, common practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Our employees, subcontractors, agents, joint venture partners, the companies we acquire and their employees, subcontractors and agents, and other third parties with which we associate, could take actions that violate policies or procedures designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions 31 (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation. GE accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and any material loss of business from, or change in our relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from GE. In 2018, 2019 and 2020, GE accounted for 9%, 14% and 12% of our revenues, respectively. In the past, GE has divested businesses we served, including a significant portion of its GE Capital business. We expect that our services for GE will decline in the future if GE pursues further divestitures. We intend to continue to make efforts to procure contracts with respect to GEs divested businesses and have entered into contracts with several divested GE businesses; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to procure any such contracts following any future divestitures or that such contracts would be on favorable terms. GE is not obligated to provide us with any exclusivity or opportunity to work on GE projects and GE is not required to purchase a minimum amount of services from us. In addition, GE has the right to terminate our services in whole or in part for any reason by providing us with a short period of advance notice. Any material loss of business from, or change in relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, our revenues from GE may be more volatile in the future and this volatility could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewNet Revenues for further information regarding our relationship with GE. We expect that our business with GE will continue to come from a variety of GEs businesses and that, in general, GEs decisions to use our services will continue to be made by a number of people within GE. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, we expect that the total level of business we receive will continue to depend on the decisions of the various operating managers of such businesses. Any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients located in the United States and Europe, as well as on clients that operate in certain industries. In 2020, more than 70% of our revenues were derived from clients based in North America and more than 15% of our revenues were derived from clients based in Europe. Additionally, in 2020, more than 25% of our revenues were derived from clients in the financial services industry, which includes insurance. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected economic activity in the United States and Europe and activity in certain industries in which our clients operate. In addition, a number of other factors could adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States or Europe, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, Brexit has created, and continues to create, political and economic uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU and as to whether any other European countries may similarly seek to exit the EU. We have operations in the United Kingdom and a number of countries in the EU and our global operations serve clients with operations in these regions, and as a result our business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by such uncertainty and by the terms of the United Kingdoms withdrawal from the EU. Any further deterioration in economic activity in the United States or Europe, or in industries in which our clients operate, could adversely affect demand for our services, thus reducing our revenue. Increased regulation, changes in existing regulation or increased government intervention in the industries in which our clients operate may adversely affect growth in such industries and therefore have an adverse impact on our revenues. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 32 We may face difficulties in providing end-to-end business solutions or delivering complex, large or unique projects for our clients that could cause clients to discontinue their work with us, which in turn could harm our business and our reputation. We continue to expand the nature and scope of our engagements, including by incorporating digital solutions that use social, mobility, big data and cloud-based technologies. Our ability to effectively offer a wide range of business solutions depends on our ability to attract existing or new clients to new service offerings, and the market for our solutions is highly competitive. We cannot be certain that our new service offerings, particularly our digital offerings, will effectively meet client needs or that we will be able to attract clients to these service offerings. The complexity of our new service offerings, our inexperience in developing or implementing them, and significant competition in the markets for these services may affect our ability to market these services successfully. In addition, the breadth of our existing service offerings continues to result in larger and more complex projects with our clients, which have risks associated with their scope and complexities. Our failure to deliver services that meet the requirements specified by our clients could result in termination of client contracts, and we could be liable to our clients for significant penalties or damages or suffer reputational harm. Larger projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays may result from factors that have little or nothing to do with the quality of our services, such as the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements and inaccuracies in such resource planning and allocation may have a negative impact on our profitability. From time to time we also enter into agreements that include unique service level delivery requirements or novel pricing arrangements with which we have no experience and that may be unique in the industry. These projects can include performance targets that become more rigorous over the term of the contracts and service delivery components that are partially subjective by design, and we may be unable achieve such targets or to satisfy our clients expectations in delivering such services. Our failure to deliver such engagements to our clients expectations could result in termination of client contracts, and we could be liable to our clients for penalties or damages or suffer reputational harm. We may also discover that we have not priced such engagements appropriately, which could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. Our partnerships, alliances and relationships with third-party suppliers and contractors and other third parties with whom we do business expose us to a variety of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our partnerships and alliances and our relationships with a variety of third parties, including suppliers, contractors and others, expose us to a variety of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, and we may not be successful in mitigating such risks. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for products and services, as well as our suppliers ability to deliver sufficient quantities and quality of products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet commitments for the delivery of our own services. In addition, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our services, including with respect to any third-party components to our services. Any performance failure on the part of our partners or the third parties with whom we do business could delay our performance of client deliverables, which could deprive us of potential revenue. Additionally, our partners, third-party suppliers and contractors and other third parties with whom we do business may not be able to comply with current good business practices or applicable laws or regulatory requirements. Our failure, or the failure of such third parties, to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. We may have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our partners and third parties with whom we do business dedicate to their arrangements with us. Our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our partners or other third parties desire and ability to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. Further, certain of our suppliers, partners and other contractors may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. 33 In addition, we are a party to a number of license agreements with third parties and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect that future licenses will impose, various obligations and restrictions on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations and restrictions, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we might not be able to market any product or service that is covered by these agreements, which could materially adversely affect our business. Termination of these license agreements or reduction or elimination of our licensed rights may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated licenses with less favorable terms, or cause us to lose rights in important intellectual property or technology. Any of the foregoing may prevent us from working with our partners or third parties with whom we do business and could subject us to losses, affect our ability to bring products and services to market, cause us to fail to satisfy our client obligations and harm our reputation. We may fail to attract and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations. Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled employees and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. Historically, high employee attrition has been common in our industry. In 2020, our attrition rate for all employees who were employed for a day or more was 20%, down from 28% in 2019. This reduction was primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce our level of attrition further or maintain our attrition rate at the 2020 level. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. Competition for qualified employees, particularly in India and the United States, remains high and we expect such competition to continue. We compete for employees not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies. In many locations in which we operate, there is a limited pool of employees who have the skills and training needed to do our work. If our business continues to grow, the number of people we will need to hire will increase. We will also need to increase our hiring if we are not able to maintain our attrition rate through innovative recruiting and retention policies. Significant competition for employees could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our clients, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs. Currency exchange rate fluctuations in various currencies in which we do business, especially the Indian rupee, the euro and the U.S. dollar, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remaining amounts largely in euros, UK pounds sterling, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen and the Indian rupee. Most of our expenses are incurred and paid in Indian rupees, with the remaining amounts largely in U.S. dollars, Chinese renminbi, Romanian lei, euros, UK pounds sterling, Philippine pesos, Japanese yen, Polish zloty, Mexican pesos, Guatemalan quetzals, Hungarian forint and the Australian dollar. As we expand our operations to new countries, we will incur expenses in other currencies. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates between the Indian rupee, the euro and other currencies in which we incur costs or receive revenues, on the one hand, and the U.S. dollar, on the other hand, have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. See