Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2018. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents incorporated by reference herein, if any, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the results and success of our transactions with Quantum and the OptoSeis technology, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, potential tenders for permanent reservoir monitoring systems, future demand for OBX systems, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefore, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and the provision of accounting reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, as well as other cautionary language in such Annual Report and this Quarterly Report, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Such examples include, but are not limited to, the failure of the Quantum or OptoSeis technology transactions to yield positive operating results, decreases in commodity price levels, which could reduce demand for our products, the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance, despite substantial investment by us, our sensitivity to short term backlog, delayed or cancelled customer orders, product obsolescence resulting from poor industry conditions or new technologies, bad debt write-offs associated with customer accounts, lack of further orders for our OBX rental equipment, failure of our Quantum products to be adopted by the border and security perimeter market and infringement or failure to protect intellectual property. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Business Overview Geospace Technologies Corporation reincorporated as a Texas corporation on April 16, 2015. We originally incorporated as a Delaware corporation on September 27, 1994. Unless otherwise specified, the discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refers to Geospace Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. We design and manufacture instruments and equipment used in the oil and gas industry to acquire seismic data in order to locate, characterize and monitor hydrocarbon producing reservoirs. We also design and manufacture industrial products, offshore cables, imaging equipment and perimeter security products. We report and categorize our customers and products into three different segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. We have been engaged in the design and manufacture of seismic instruments and equipment since 1980. We primarily market our seismic products to the oil and gas industry to locate, characterize and monitor hydrocarbon producing reservoirs. We also market our seismic products to other industries for vibration monitoring, border and perimeter security and various geotechnical applications. We design and manufacture other products of a non-seismic nature, including water meter products, imaging equipment and offshore cables. Demand for our seismic products targeted at the oil and gas industry has been, and will likely continue to be, vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the oil and gas industry in general. For more information, please refer to the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018. Business Acquisition On November 13, 2018, we acquired all of the intellectual property and related assets of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology business. The assets of the OptoSeis business are included in our Oil and Gas Markets business segment. 17 The acquisition purchase price consisted of cash at closing of approximately $1.8 million and contingent earn-out payments of up to $23.2 million over a five-and-a-half year period. The contingent cash payments will be derived from eligible revenue generated during the earn-out period from products and services utilizing the OptoSeis fiber optic technology. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on our website at http://www.geospace.com. From time to time, we may post investor presentations on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or posted in the future, is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Products and Product Development Oil and Gas Markets Our Oil and Gas Markets business segment has historically accounted for the majority of our revenue. Geoscientists use seismic data primarily in connection with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves to map potential and known hydrocarbon bearing formations and the geologic structures that surround them. This segments products include wireless seismic data acquisition systems, reservoir characterization products and services, and traditional seismic exploration products such as geophones, hydrophones, leader wire, connectors, cables, marine streamer retrieval and steering devices and various other seismic products. We believe that our oil and gas products are among the most technologically advanced instruments and equipment available for seismic data acquisition. Traditional Products An energy source and a data recording system are combined to acquire seismic data. We provide many of the components of seismic data recording systems, including geophones, hydrophones, multi-component sensors, leader wire, geophone strings, connectors, seismic telemetry cables and other seismic related products. On land, our customers use geophones, leader wire, cables and connectors to receive and measure seismic reflections resulting from an energy source into data recording units, which store the seismic information for subsequent processing and analysis. In the marine environment, large ocean-going vessels tow long seismic cables known as streamers containing hydrophones that are used to detect pressure changes. Hydrophones transmit electrical impulses back to the vessels data recording unit where the seismic data is stored for subsequent processing and analysis. Our marine seismic products also help steer streamers while being towed and help recover streamers if they become disconnected from the vessel. Our seismic sensor, cable and connector products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. Revenue from these products results primarily from seismic contractors purchasing our products as components of new seismic data acquisition systems or to repair and replace components of seismic data acquisition systems already in use. Our products used in marine seismic data acquisition include our seismic streamer retrieval devices (SRDs). Occasionally, streamer cables are severed and become disconnected from the vessel as a result of obstacles, inclement weather, vessel traffic or human error. Our SRDs, which are attached to the streamer cables, contain air bags which are designed to inflate automatically at a given water depth, bringing the severed streamer cables to the surface. These SRDs save the seismic contractors significant time and money compared to the alternative of losing the streamer cable. We also produce seismic streamer steering devices, or birds, which are fin-like devices that attach to the streamer cable. These birds help maintain the streamer cable at a certain desired depth as it is being towed through the water. Wireless Products We have developed a land-based wireless (or nodal) seismic data acquisition system called the GSX. Rather than utilizing interconnecting cables as required by most traditional land data acquisition systems, each GSX station operates as an independent data collection system, allowing our GSX stations to be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations. As a result, our GSX system requires less maintenance, which we believe allows our customers to operate more effectively and efficiently because of its reduced environmental impact, lower weight and ease of operation. Our GSX system is designed into configurations ranging from one to four channels per station. Since its introduction in 2008 and through March 31, 2019, we have sold 433,000 GSX channels and we have 80,000 GSX channels in our rental fleet. 18 We have also developed a marine-based wireless seismic data acquisition system called the OBX. Similar to our GSX land-based wireless system, the marine OBX system can be deployed in virtually unlimited ch annel configurations and does not require interconnecting cables between each station. Our deep water versions of the OBX system can be deployed in depths of up to 3,450 meters. At March 31, 2019, we had 22,000 OBX stations in our rental fleet, and addit ional OBX stations under construction in order to meet contracted demand. We expect to make significant financial investments into our OBX rental fleet during fiscal year 2019. Reservoir Products Seismic surveys repeated over selected time intervals show dynamic changes within a producing oil and gas reservoir, and operators can use these surveys to monitor the effects of oil and gas development and production. This type of reservoir monitoring requires special purpose or custom designed systems in which portability becomes less critical and functional reliability assumes greater importance. This reliability factor helps assure successful operations in inaccessible locations over a considerable period of time. Additionally, reservoirs located in deep water or harsh environments require special instrumentation and new techniques to maximize recovery. Reservoir monitoring also requires high-bandwidth, high-resolution seismic data for engineering project planning and reservoir management. Utilizing these reservoir monitoring tools, producers can enhance the recovery of oil and gas deposits over the life of a reservoir. We have developed permanently installed high-definition reservoir monitoring systems for land and ocean-bottom applications in producing oil and gas fields. Our electrical reservoir monitoring systems are currently installed on numerous offshore reservoirs in the North Sea and elsewhere. Through our recent acquisition of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology, we now offer both electrical and fiber optic reservoir monitoring systems. These high-definition seismic data acquisition systems have a flexible architecture allowing them to be configured as a subsurface system for both land and marine reservoir-monitoring projects. The scalable architecture of these systems enable custom designed configuration for applications ranging from low-channel engineering and environmental-scale surveys requiring a minimum number of recording channels to high-channel surveys required to efficiently conduct permanent reservoir monitoring (PRM). The modular architecture of these products allows virtually unlimited channel expansion for these systems. In addition, we produce seismic borehole acquisition systems that employ a fiber optic augmented wireline capable of very high data transmission rates. These systems are used for several reservoir monitoring applications, including an application pioneered by us allowing operators and service companies to monitor and measure the results of fracturing operations. We believe our reservoir characterization products make seismic acquisition a cost-effective and reliable process for the challenges of reservoir monitoring. Our multi-component seismic product developments also include an omni-directional geophone for use in reservoir monitoring, a compact marine three-component or four-component gimbaled sensor and special-purpose connectors, connector arrays and cases. We have not received any orders for large-scale seabed PRM systems since November 2012 and we currently do not have any indication that such an order will be received in fiscal year 2019, although we do believe opportunities for PRM orders do exist in todays market. Adjacent Markets Our Adjacent Markets businesses leverage upon our existing manufacturing facilities and engineering capabilities utilized by our Oil and Gas Markets businesses. We have found that many of our oil and gas seismic products, with little or no modification, have direct application to industries beyond those involved in oil and gas exploration and development. Industrial Products Our industrial products include water meter products, offshore cables, as well as seismic sensors used for vibration monitoring and geotechnical applications such as mine safety applications and earthquake detection. Imaging Products Our imaging products include electronic pre-press products that employ direct thermal imaging and digital inkjet printing technologies targeted at the commercial graphics, industrial graphics, textile and flexographic printing industries. Emerging Markets Our Emerging Markets business segment consists of our recent acquisition of Quantum. Quantums product developments include a proprietary detection system called SADAR , which detects, locates and follows activities of interest in real-time. Using the SADAR technology, Quantum designs and sells products used for border and perimeter security surveillance, cross-border tunneling 19 detection and other products targeted at movement monitoring, intrusion detectio n and situational awareness. Quantums customers include various agencies of the U.S. government including the Department of Defense, Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security and other agencies. Consolidated Results of Operations We report and evaluate financial information for three segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Oil and Gas Markets Traditional exploration product revenue $ 3,969 $ 3,187 $ 6,754 $ 6,977 Wireless exploration product revenue 13,644 6,039 20,926 9,670 Reservoir product revenue 1,056 2,061 1,993 2,679 Total revenue 18,669 11,287 29,673 19,326 Operating income (loss) 3,332 (3,757 ) 731 (11,430 ) Adjacent Markets Industrial product revenue 4,122 4,711 7,683 8,387 Imaging product revenue 3,137 3,115 6,211 5,893 Total revenue 7,259 7,826 13,894 14,280 Operating income 1,651 1,384 2,633 2,413 Emerging Markets Revenue 46 134 Operating loss (1,180 ) (2,372 ) Corporate Revenue 149 134 297 285 Operating loss (2,781 ) (2,849 ) (6,033 ) (5,810 ) Consolidated Totals Revenue 26,123 19,247 43,998 33,891 Operating income (loss) 1,022 (5,222 ) (5,041 ) (14,827 ) Overview Early in calendar year 2014, our Oil and Gas Markets segment experienced a softening in the demand for its traditional exploration products, particularly in North America, as capital budgets for oil and gas producers were trending away from exploration-focused activities toward production and exploitation activities. During this period oil production in North Americas unconventional shale reservoirs increased, as did oil production from other non-OPEC countries, resulting in an oversupply of crude oil in the world market. Market prices for a barrel of West Texas Intermediate crude oil declined from over $100 in July 2014 to approximately $26 in February 2016, and have recovered to approximately $62 today. With this decline in oil prices, oil and gas exploration and production companies experienced a significant reduction in cash flows, which resulted in sharp reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic data acquisition activities. While our Oil and Gas Markets segment is now seeing some signs of increased geophysical activity around the world, the need for new seismic equipment remains restrained due to capital limitations affecting many of our customers along with excess levels of underutilized equipment. While our Oil and Gas Markets segment is seeing significant demand for the rental of its marine nodal products, we expect revenue from the sale and rental of our land-based products, and in particular our traditional and wireless products, to remain low until exploration-focused seismic activities increase due to the ongoing depletion of existing reservoirs prompting the need to find new sources of oil and gas. We expect these challenging industry conditions will continue in our Oil and Gas Markets segment throughout fiscal year 2019. In December 2017, we initiated a program to reduce operating costs in light of expected and continuing low levels of oil and gas product demand. The program is expected to produce approximately $6 million of annualized cash savings. The majority of the future cost reductions were realized through the reduction of over 60 employees from our Houston area workforce. In connection with the workforce reductions, we incurred $0.7 million of termination costs in our first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The termination costs were recorded to both cost of revenue and operating expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. There are no outstanding liabilities related to this program as of March 31, 2019. 20 Three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 Consolidated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $6.9 million, or 35.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated revenue for the six months ended March 31, 2019 increased $10.1 million, or 29.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue for both periods was primarily due to an increase in rental revenue from our OBX marine nodal products in our Oil and Gas Markets business segment. Consolidated revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 includes $1.3 million resulting from the revenue recognition of a non-refundable deposit resulting from the cancellation of a rental contract by a customer. Consolidated gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $10.4 million, compared to $2.0 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated gross profit for the six months ended March 31, 2019 was $13.4 million, compared to $1.0 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in gross profit for both periods primarily resulted from a significant increase in wireless product rental revenue caused by the high utilization of our OBX rental fleet and a decline in unutilized factory costs due to higher manufacturing productivity. While factory utilization has recently increased due to demand for the rental of our OBX marine nodal products, we expect our consolidated gross margins from the sale of our products to remain below historic norms until demand increases significantly for our land-based traditional and wireless seismic products. In light of current market conditions, our oil and gas product inventories at March 31, 2019 continue to exceed levels considered appropriate for the current level of product demand. While we are aggressively working to reduce these legacy inventory balances, we are also adding new inventories for recent oil and gas product developments and other product demand in our Adjacent Markets. During periods of excessive inventory levels, our policy has been, and will continue to be, to record obsolescence expense as we experience reduced levels of inventory turnover and as our inventories continue to age. If difficult market conditions continue for our oil and gas products, we expect to record additional inventory obsolescence expense in fiscal year 2019 and beyond until product demand and/or resulting inventory turnover return to acceptable levels. Consolidated operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $9.3 million, an increase of $2.1 million, or 29.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated operating expenses for the six months ended March 31, 2019 were $18.5 million, an increase of $2.6 million, or 16.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. These increases were primarily due to incremental operating costs associated with our recent acquisitions of the Quantum and OptoSeis businesses. Increased operating costs related to these acquisitions were $1.8 million and $3.3 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019. Such operating costs include intangible asset amortization expenses of $0.4 million and $0.8 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019. The remaining balance of acquisition-related operating costs primarily represents personnel expenses of the acquired businesses. The increase in operating expenses for the six months ended March 31, 2019 was partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in bad debt expense. Consolidated other income (loss) for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was income of $0.2 million, compared to a loss of $(0.2) million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated other income (loss) for the six months ended March 31, 2019 was income of $0.5 million, compared to a loss of $(0.1) million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in other income for both periods was primarily due to an increase in net foreign exchange gains. Consolidated income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $0.6 million compared to a tax benefit of $0.7 million for corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated income tax expense for the six months ended March 31, 2019 was $0.6 million compared to a tax benefit of $0.7 million for corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The $0.6 million tax expense for both periods in fiscal year 2019 primarily reflects foreign withholding tax on rental income earned in Nigeria during the three months ended March 31, 2019. The income tax benefit for both periods of fiscal year 2018 reflects a $0.7 million refund resulting from the filing of an amended U.S. tax return in the three months ended March 31, 2018. We are currently unable to record any tax benefits for our tax losses in the U.S. and Canada due to the uncertainty surrounding our ability to utilize such losses in the future to offset taxable income. Segment Results of Operations Oil and Gas Markets Revenue Revenue from our oil and gas products for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $7.4 million, or 65.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our oil and gas products for the six months ended March 31, 2019 increased $10.3 million, or 53.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of these increases include the following: Traditional Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2019, revenue from our traditional products increased $0.8 million, or 24.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily caused by higher demand for our marine products and an increase in repair and service revenue. The increase 21 was partially offset by lower demand for our specialty sensor products. For the six months ended March 31, 2019, revenue from our traditional products decreased $0.2 million, or 3.2% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease primarily reflects lower demand for ou r specialty sensor products. Wireless Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2019, revenue from our wireless exploration products increased $7.6 million, or 125.9%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the six months ended March 31, 2019, revenue from our wireless exploration products increased $11.3 million, or 116.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. In both periods, the increase resulted from higher rental demand for our OBX systems and was partially offset by a decline in demand for sales of our GSX wireless products. Both periods of fiscal year 2019 include $1.3 million of revenue from the recognition of a non-refundable deposit resulting from the cancellation of a rental contract by a customer. Reservoir Product Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2019, revenue from our reservoir products decreased $1.0 million, or 48.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the six months ended March 31, 2019, revenue from our reservoir products decreased $0.7 million, or 25.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for both periods was primarily due to a decrease in sales of our borehole products and lower service revenue. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income associated with our oil and gas products for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $3.3 million compared to an operating loss of $3.8 million from the corresponding period of the prior year. Operating income associated with our oil and gas products for the six months ended March 31, 2019 was $0.7 million, compared to an operating loss of $11.4 million from the corresponding period of the prior year. The improvement in operating income (loss) for both periods primarily resulted from (i) an increase in wireless rental revenue from our OBX systems, (ii) a decrease in inventory obsolescence expense and (iii) a decline in unutilized factory costs due to higher productivity. While factory utilization has recently increased due to rental demand for our OBX marine wireless products, we expect our consolidated gross margins for our oil and gas products to remain below historic norms until demand increases significantly for these products. Adjacent Markets Revenue Revenue from our Adjacent Markets products for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased $0.6 million, or 7.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our Adjacent Markets products for the six months ended March 31, 2019 decreased $0.4 million, or 2.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of these decreases included the following: Industrial Product Revenue and Services For the three months ended March 31, 2019, revenue from our industrial products decreased $0.6 million, or 12.5% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the six months ended March 31, 2019, revenue from our industrial products decreased $0.7 million, or 8.4% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in revenue for both periods was primarily attributable to lower demand for our water meter products and a decrease in contract manufacturing service revenue. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in demand for our offshore cable products. Imaging Product Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2019, revenue from our imaging products increased $22,000, or 0.7%, from the corresponding period of the fiscal year. For the six months ended March 31, 2019, revenue from our imaging products increased $0.3 million, or 5.4%, from the corresponding period of the fiscal year. The increase in both periods was primarily due to higher demand for our film products. Operating Income The operating income from our Adjacent Markets products for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $0.3 million or 19.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The operating income from our Adjacent Markets products for the six months ended March 31, 2019 increased $0.2 million or 9.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating income for both periods resulted from manufacturing improvements and reductions in operating personnel costs and bad debt expenses. 22 Emerging Markets On July 27, 2018, we entered the border and perimeter security market through our acquisition of Quantum. In connection with the Quantum acquisition, we established the Emerging Markets business segment, which currently includes only Quantum. Revenue from our Emerging Markets products for three and six months ended March 31, 2019 was $45,000 and $0.1 million, respectively. Our operating loss for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 was $1.2 million and $2.4 million, respectively, including $0.3 million and $0.6 million of intangible asset amortization expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2019, we had approximately $12.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $0.7 million in short-term investments. For the six months ended March 31, 2019, we used $2.9 million of cash in operating activities. Our net loss of $5.1 million was offset by (i) net non-cash charges of $12.5 million from deferred income taxes, depreciation, amortization, accretion, inventory obsolescence, stock-based compensation and bad debt expense and (ii) a $3.0 million increase in accounts payable primarily associated with the purchase of materials required to expand our OBX rental fleet. Other uses of cash in our operations included a (i) a $3.7 million increase in inventories for the production of recently introduced land-based wireless seismic products, (ii) $5.8 increase in trade accounts receivable resulting from the increase in revenue and delays in collecting funds owed from a rental customer, (iii) a $1.3 million decrease in deferred revenue due to a customer deposit forfeiture on a rental contract, (iv) a $1.2 million decrease in accrued and other expenses primarily attributable to the payment of property taxes and (v) a $1.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets attributable to prepayment of annual insurance premiums and advance payments made to suppliers for future inventory purchases. For the six months ended March 31, 2019, we generated cash of $3.9 million from investing activities. Sources of cash included (i) $24.9 million of proceeds from the sale of short-term investments, (ii) $1.6 million of proceeds from the sale of rental equipment and (iii) $0.6 million of proceeds, net of payments, from a property related insurance claim. These sources of cash were partially offset by (i) $1.8 million for the acquisition of the intellectual property and related assets of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology business, (ii) $20.4 million primarily to expand our OBX rental fleet and (iii) $1.0 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment. As a result of significant demand for our marine OBX rental equipment, we expect fiscal year 2019 cash investments into our rental fleet could be $30 million or more. We estimate total fiscal year 2019 cash investments in property, plant and equipment could be up to $3 million. Our capital expenditures are expected to be funded from our cash on hand, internal cash flows, cash flows from our rental contracts or, if necessary, from borrowings under our credit agreement. For the six months ended March 31, 2019, we generated cash proceeds of $0.2 million from financing activities from the exercise of stock options by our employees. We had no long-term debt outstanding throughout the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 or for the six months ended March 31, 2019. Throughout 2018, West Texas Intermediate crude oil prices strengthened into early October 2018, peaking at $76 per barrel. Since that time and continuing into late December 2018, crude oil prices dropped significantly bottoming-out at $43 per barrel. In the last few weeks we have seen crude oil price strengthen again to around $62 per barrel. The significant price volatility that began in 2014 continues today, stifling budgets targeted at the oil and gas exploration industry, including the seismic industry. OPEC and other crude oil producing/exporting nations appear united in their efforts to maintain equilibrium between current worldwide crude oil supply and demand, with reported reductions in excess crude oil supplies around the world. If worldwide crude oil supplies and associated prices stabilize, these factors and developing trends bode well for the oil and gas industry and we expect to participate in any resurgence in demand for new seismic equipment that may be forthcoming. While we are seeing some signs of increased seismic activity around the world, the need for new seismic equipment remains restrained due to capital limitations affecting many of our customers along with excessive quantities of under-utilized equipment. We expect product sales of our oil and gas products, and in particular our legacy land-based traditional and wireless products, to remain low until exploration-focused seismic activities increase, which we believe will eventually result from the ongoing depletion of existing reservoirs prompting the need to find new sources of oil and gas. We expect these challenging industry conditions facing our land-based traditional and legacy wireless products will continue throughout fiscal year 2019. Our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $13.5 million at March 31, 2019, including $7.5 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law on December 22, 2017, creates new taxes on certain foreign earnings and also requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on undistributed earnings of their foreign subsidiaries which were previously tax deferred. We have determined that we are not required to pay any transition tax on the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries since we had no accumulated earnings on a consolidated basis. Our credit agreement allows for borrowings of up to $30.0 million with such amounts available for borrowing determined by a borrowing base. In November 2018, we extended the maturity of the credit agreement from April 2019 to April 2020. In March 2019, we entered into an amendment to the credit agreement that altered the unencumbered liquid assets covenant to (i) reduce the minimum threshold from $10 million to $5 million and (ii) include unencumbered liquid assets held outside the United States. The 23 amendment also added another financial covenant that r equires us to maintain a tangible net worth of not less than $140 million. Additionally, pursuant to the amendment, our principal place of business and the related real estate, located at 7007 Pinemont Drive, Houston, Texas was added as collateral securin g our obligations under the credit agreement. At March 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement and our borrowing availability under the credit facility was $25.5 million. At March 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all cove nants under the credit agreement. We currently do not anticipate the need to borrow under the credit agreement; however, we can make no assurance that we will not do so. In fiscal years 2016, 2017 and 2018, we received income tax refunds of $18.3 million, $12.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively, from the U.S. Department of Treasury. These refunds were a result of the significant tax losses we experienced in fiscal years 2016 and 2015, which we elected to carryback and recoup taxes previously paid. For U.S. income tax purposes, we are now in a loss carryforward position in regards to our tax losses occurring in fiscal year 2017 and beyond. As a result, our current tax losses will not result in any additional U.S. federal income tax refunds. The tax refunds we received in fiscal years 2016 and 2017 were significant contributors to our overall liquidity. In the absence of future profitable results of operations, we may need to rely on other sources of liquidity to fund our future operating results, including liquidating short-term investments, executed rental contracts, available borrowings under our credit agreement through its expiration in April 2020 leveraging or sale of real estate assets, sales of rental assets and other liquidity sources which may be available to us. However, currently we believe that our cash, short-term investment balances and borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to finance any future operating losses and planned capital expenditures through the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any obligations which meet the definition of an off-balance sheet arrangement and which have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial statements or the items contained therein that are material to investors. Contractual Obligations We established an initial earn-out liability of $4.3 million in connection with its November 2018 acquisition of all the intellectual property and related assets of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology. Contingent cash payments, if any, will be derived from eligible revenue generated during a five-and-a-half year earn-out period subsequent to the closing of the acquisition from products and services utilizing the OptoSeis fiber optic technology. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.2 million over the earn-out period. We established an estimated initial contingent earn-out liability of $7.7 million in connection with its July 2018 acquisition of Quantum. Contingent payments, if any, may be paid in the form of cash or company stock and will be derived from eligible revenue generated during a four-year earn-out period subsequent to the closing of the acquisition. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.5 million over the earn-out period. Critical Accounting Policies During the six months ended March 31, 2019, there has been no material change to our critical accounting policies discussed in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 other than the adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Topic 606. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.