Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents incorporated by reference herein, if any, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefore, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014, as well as other cautionary language in such Annual Report and this Quarterly Report, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Business Overview Geospace Technologies Corporation is a Delaware corporation incorporated on September 27, 1994. Unless otherwise specified, the discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refers to Geospace Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. We design and manufacture instruments and equipment used in the acquisition and processing of seismic data as well as in the characterization and monitoring of producing oil and gas reservoirs. Demand for our products has been, and will likely continue to be, vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the oil and gas industry in general. For more information, please refer to the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014. We have engaged in the seismic instrument and equipment business since 1980 and market our products primarily to the oil and gas industry. We also design, manufacture and distribute non-seismic equipment including thermal imaging equipment and industrial products. We report and categorize our customers and products into two different segments: Seismic and Non-Seismic. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SECs public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on their public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on our website at http://www.geospace.com. From time to time, we may post investor presentations on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or posted in the future, is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Products and Product Development Seismic Products Our seismic business segment accounts for the majority of our revenues. Geoscientists use seismic data primarily in connection with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves to map potential and known hydrocarbon bearing formations and the geologic structures that surround them. Our seismic product lines currently consist of land and marine nodal data acquisition systems, permanent land and seabed reservoir monitoring products and services, geophones and geophone strings, hydrophones, leader wire, connectors, telemetry cables, marine streamer retrieval and steering devices and various other products. Our seismic products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. We believe that our seismic products are among the most technologically advanced instruments and equipment available for seismic data acquisition. 15 Traditional Products An energy source and a data recording system are combined to acquire seismic data. We provide many of the components of seismic data recording systems, including geophones, hydrophones, multi-component sensors, leader wire, geophone strings, connectors, seismic telemetry cables and other seismic related products. On land, our customers use geophones, leader wire, cables and connectors to receive and measure seismic reflections resulting from an energy source into data recording units, which store the seismic information for subsequent processing and analysis. In the marine environment, large ocean-going vessels tow long seismic cables known as streamers containing hydrophones which are used to detect pressure changes. Hydrophones transmit electrical impulses back to the vessels data recording unit where the seismic data is stored for subsequent processing and analysis. Our marine seismic products help steer streamers while being towed and help recover streamers if they become disconnected from the vessel. Our seismic sensor, cable and connector products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. Sales result primarily from seismic contractors purchasing our products as components of new seismic data acquisition systems or to repair and replace components of seismic data acquisition systems already in use. Our products used in marine seismic data acquisition include our marine seismic streamer retrieval devices (SRDs). Occasionally, streamer cables are severed and become disconnected from the vessel as a result of obstacles, inclement weather, vessel traffic or human error. Our SRDs, which are attached to the streamer cables, contain air bags which are designed to inflate automatically at a given water depth, bringing the severed streamer cables to the surface. These SRDs save the seismic contractors significant time and money compared to the alternative of losing the streamer cable. We also produce seismic streamer steering devices, or birds, which are fin-like devices that attach to the streamer cable. These birds help maintain the streamer cable at a certain desired depth as it is being towed through the water. Our wholly-owned subsidiary in the Russian Federation manufactures international standard geophones, sensors, seismic leader wire, seismic telemetry cables and related seismic products for customers in the Russian Federation and other international seismic marketplaces. We have a branch office in Colombia that primarily rents seismic equipment to our customers in the South American market. Wireless Products We have developed a land-based wireless (or nodal) seismic data acquisition system called the GSX. Each GSX station operates independently and therefore can be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations. Rather than utilizing interconnecting cables as required by most traditional land data acquisition systems, each GSX station operates as an independent data collection system. As a result, our GSX system requires less maintenance, which we believe allows our customers to operate more effectively and efficiently because of its reduced environmental impact, lower weight and ease of operation. Our GSX system is designed into configurations ranging from one to four channels per station. Since its introduction in 2008 and through December 31, 2014, we have sold 325,000 GSX channels and we have 135,000 GSX channels in our rental fleet. We do not expect to expand our GSX rental fleet significantly in fiscal year 2015. We have also developed a marine-based wireless seismic data acquisition system called the OBX. Similar to our GSX land-based wireless system, the marine OBX system can be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations and does not require interconnecting cables between each station. Our deep water versions of the OBX system can be deployed in depths of up to 3,000 meters. Through December 31, 2014, we have sold over 400 OBX stations and we have 4,300 OBX stations in our rental fleet. We expect to make significant investments in our OBX rental fleet in fiscal year 2015. Reservoir Products Seismic surveys repeated over selected time intervals show dynamic changes within the reservoir and can be used to monitor the effects of oil and gas production. In this regard, we have developed permanently installed high-definition reservoir monitoring systems for land and ocean-bottom applications in producing oil and gas fields. We also produce a retrievable version of our ocean-bottom system for use on fields where permanently installed systems are not appropriate or economical. Utilizing these tools, producers can enhance the recovery of oil and gas deposits over the life of a reservoir. Our high-definition reservoir monitoring products include the HDSeis product line and a suite of borehole and reservoir monitoring products and services. Our HDSeis system is a high-definition seismic data acquisition system with flexible architecture that allows it to be configured as a borehole seismic system or as a subsurface system for both land and marine reservoir-monitoring projects. The scalable architecture of the HDSeis system enables custom designed system configuration for applications ranging from low-channel engineering and environmental-scale surveys requiring a minimum number of recording channels to high-channel surveys required to efficiently conduct permanent reservoir imaging and monitoring. Modular architecture allows virtually unlimited channel expansion. In addition, multi-system synchronization features make the HDSeis system well suited for multi-well or multi-site acquisition, simultaneous surface and downhole acquisition and continuous reservoir monitoring projects. 16 Reservoir monitoring requires special purpose or custom designed systems in which portability becomes less critical and functional reliability assumes greater importance. This reliability factor helps assure successful operations in inaccessible locations over a considerable period of time. Additionally, reservoirs located in deep water or harsh environments require special instrumentation and new techniques to maximize recovery. Reservoir monitoring also requires high-bandwidth, high-resolution seismic data for engineering project planning and reservoir management. We believe our HDSeis System and tools, designed for cost-effective deployment and lifetime performance, will make borehole and seabed seismic acquisition a cost-effective and reliable process for the challenges of reservoir monitoring. Our multi-component seismic product developments include an omni-directional geophone for use in reservoir monitoring, a compact marine three-component or four-component gimbaled sensor and special-purpose connectors, connector arrays and cases. In February 2012 we received an $18.0 million order from Shell Brasil Petrleo Ltda (the Shell Order) to instrument a reservoir off the coast of Brazil, and in November 2012 we received an order from Statoil (the Statoil Order) for $171.7 million, including amendments, to instrument two reservoirs in the North Sea. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013, we recognized revenue of $18.0 million from delivery of the Shell Order, and we recognized revenues of $109.6 million from the Statoil Order using the percentage of completion revenue recognition method. We recognized the remaining $62.1 million from the Statoil Order during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014. Also during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014, we delivered a $5.0 million permanent land reservoir monitoring system for use in Saudi Arabia. There were no permanent reservoir monitoring systems delivered in our fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2014. In addition, we produce seismic borehole acquisition systems which employ a fiber optic augmented wireline capable of very high data transmission rates. These systems are used for several reservoir monitoring applications, including an application pioneered by us allowing operators and service companies to monitor and measure the results of fracturing operations. Non-Seismic Products Our non-seismic businesses leverage upon our existing manufacturing facilities and engineering capabilities. We have found that many of our seismic products, with little or no modification, have direct application to industries beyond those involved in oil and gas exploration and development. For example, our customers utilize our borehole tools to monitor subsurface carbon dioxide injections and for mine safety applications. Our non-seismic products include thermal imaging products targeted at the commercial graphics industry as well as various industrial products. Our industrial products include (i) sensors and tools for vibration monitoring, mine safety application and earthquake detection, (ii) cables for power and communication for the offshore oil and gas and offshore construction industries, and (iii) water meter cables and other specialty cable and connector products. Consolidated Results of Operations We report and evaluate financial information for two segments: Seismic and Non-Seismic. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Seismic Traditional exploration product revenues $ 7,721 $ 20,462 Wireless exploration product revenues 5,694 45,508 Reservoir product revenues 2,178 29,257 Total seismic revenues 15,593 95,227 Operating income (loss) (7,385 ) 38,543 Non-Seismic Net revenues 5,431 5,912 Operating income 858 774 Corporate Net revenues 142 209 Operating loss (3,361 ) (3,650 ) Consolidated Totals Net revenues 21,166 101,348 Operating income (loss) (9,888 ) 35,667 17 Overview For the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 ended December 31, 2013, we experienced very strong market demand in both North American and international markets for our wireless GSX channels and geophone sensors which contributed to record seismic exploration product revenues of $66.0 million. In addition, although the Statoil Order was entering its final phases, we also reported revenues of $29.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 from our seismic reservoir products, including $28.0 million from the Statoil Order. Altogether we reported seismic segment revenues and operating income of $95.2 million and $38.5 million respectively, both achieving new quarterly records. Subsequent to the first quarter of fiscal year 2014, we began to experience a softening in the demand for our seismic exploration products, particularly in North America, as capital budgets for oil and gas producers were trending toward production and exploitation activities. During this period oil production in North Americas unconventional shale reservoirs increased, as did oil production from non-OPEC countries, resulting in an oversupply of crude oil in the world market. From July 2014 through January 2015, market prices for a barrel of crude oil declined from over $100 to roughly $45. Demand for seismic services and, therefore, demand for our seismic equipment has decreased significantly over the last year. In addition, the Statoil Order was completed in April 2014 and we have not received any new permanent reservoir monitoring system orders. As a result of these factors, our revenues and operating income (loss) for our seismic business segment for the quarter ended December 31, 2014 declined significantly to $15.6 million and a loss of $7.4 million when compared to the year-ago quarter ended December 31, 2013. We expect these challenging industry conditions to continue to negatively impact the demand for our seismic exploration products throughout fiscal year 2015. Three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to three months ended December 31, 2013 Consolidated revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2014 decreased by $80.2 million, or 79.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was attributable to substantially lower product demand in each of our seismic product segments. Consolidated gross profit for the three months ended December 31, 2014 decreased $47.1 million, or 100.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in gross profit in the current quarter was caused by (i) lower revenues from our seismic products, (ii) the write-off of fixed manufacturing costs due to low factory utilization and (iii) a sales mix containing a concentration of lower margin products. We expect our seismic product gross margins to be under significant stress throughout fiscal year 2015 due to expected lower manufacturing activity. Consolidated operating expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2014 decreased $1.6 million, or 13.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to the elimination of incentive compensation expenses, lower legal costs and reduced research and development project expenditures. These expense decreases were partially offset by increased bad debt and stock based compensation expenses. Other income (expense) for the three months ended December 31, 2014 increased $1.6 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. This increase resulted from $1.6 million of foreign exchange gains attributable to the ruble appreciation of U.S. dollar deposits held by our Russian subsidiary. The United States statutory tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was 35%. Our effective tax rates for the three months ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were 35.5% and 31.9%, respectively. The lower effective tax rate for the period ended December 31, 2013 primarily resulted from a manufacturers/producers deduction available to U.S. manufacturers. Seismic Products Revenues As discussed above, revenues from our seismic products for the three months ended December 31, 2014 decreased by $79.6 million, or 83.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of this decrease include the following: Traditional Product Revenues and Rentals For the three months ended December 31, 2014, revenues from our traditional products decreased $12.7 million, or 62.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease reflects lower demand for geophone and marine products due to the soft industry conditions described above. In addition, the prior year period included large orders for geophones which accompanied the sale of GSX wireless systems. Wireless Product Revenues and Rentals For the three months ended December 31, 2014, revenues from our GSX and OBX wireless products decreased by $39.8 million, or 87.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in revenues was primarily due to the sale of less than 100 GSX channels in the current quarter compared to 77,000 GSX channels in the prior year period. A majority of our wireless product sales for the current quarter included low-margin 18 battery upgrades and front-end equipment. While sales of our wireless systems are expected to be challenged until oil prices stabilize and industry conditions improve, we believe that future demand for our GSX and OBX will increase as seismic contractors transition to wireless systems to improve efficiencies and lower cost in lieu of less efficient cabled land and marine systems, although we expect this order flow to continue to be erratic from quarter to quarter. Reservoir Product Revenues, Rentals and Services For the three months ended December 31, 2014, revenues from our reservoir products decreased $27.1 million, or 92.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior year. The decrease in revenues was primarily due to the completion of the manufacturing of the Statoil Order back in April 2014. The Statoil Order contributed approximately $28.0 million of revenues during the prior year quarter. While we continue to actively market these products to our customers, currently we do not expect to receive any substantial permanent reservoir monitoring contracts during fiscal year 2015. Customer orders for our seismic products, especially large orders for our GSX and OBX wireless systems and our subsea permanent reservoir monitoring systems, generally occur irregularly making it difficult for us to predict our sales and production levels each quarter. Furthermore, product shipping dates are generally determined by our customers and are not at our discretion. As a result, these factors have caused past revenues of our seismic products to be unpredictable, or lumpy, and we expect this trend to continue into the future. Operating Income (Loss) Our operating income associated with revenues from our seismic products for the three months ended December 31, 2014 decreased by $45.9 million, or 119.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Our operating income declined due to the substantial decline in our product revenues which, in turn, resulted in substantially lower gross profits. Non-Seismic Products Revenues Revenues from our non-seismic products for the three months ended December 31, 2014 decreased by $0.5 million, or 8.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease resulted from lower sales of our industrial and thermal imaging products. Operating Income Our operating income associated with revenues from our non-seismic products for the three months ended December 31, 2014 increased $0.1 million, or 10.9%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating income primarily was the result of improved gross profit margins for our offshore cable products. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2014, we had approximately $30.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and approximately $19.7 million in short-term investments. For the three months ended December 31, 2014, we used approximately $1.4 million of cash from operating activities. These uses of cash included (i) our net loss of $5.4 million, (ii) a $6.8 million decrease in accrued expenses and other primarily due to the payment of fiscal year 2014 bonuses, (iii) a $4.0 million increase in inventories and (iv) a $2.7 million increase in prepaid and other current assets. These uses of cash were primarily offset by (i) a $10.1 million decrease in trade accounts and notes receivable primarily due to a collection of existing receivables and (ii) net non-cash charges of $6.0 million from deferred income taxes, depreciation, amortization, accretion, stock-based compensation, inventory obsolescence and bad debts. For the three months ended December 31, 2014, we used approximately $0.8 million of cash in investing activities. The primary uses of cash were for (i) the purchase of property and equipment of $1.1 million and (ii) the purchase of $1.6 million of short-term investments. These uses of cash were partially offset by $1.7 million of proceeds from the sale of short-term investments and $0.2 million from the sale of used rental equipment. We expect customer demand for rentals of our OBX nodal products to increase in fiscal year 2015, resulting in estimated cash investments into our rental fleet of approximately $7 million and potential non-cash transfers from our inventory account of up to $20 million or more. We estimate that cash investments in machinery and equipment will be approximately $5 to $7 million in fiscal year 2015. In addition, capital investments related to the expansion of our Houston manufacturing and engineering facilities are estimated to range from $1 to $5 million. We expect these capital expenditures will be financed from our cash on hand, internal cash flow, rental equipment sales proceeds and/or from borrowings under our Credit Agreement. For the three months ended December 31, 2014, we used approximately $1.1 million of cash in financing activities attributable to excess tax expense associated with the vesting of restricted stock. 19 On March 2, 2011, we entered into a credit agreement with a bank. On September 27, 2013, we amended the credit agreement and increased the borrowing availability to $50.0 million (as amended, the Credit Agreement). Our borrowings are principally secured by our accounts receivable, inventories and equipment. In addition, certain of our domestic subsidiaries have guaranteed our obligations under the Credit Agreement and such subsidiaries have secured the obligations by the pledge of certain of the assets of such subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement expires on April 27, 2016 and all borrowed funds are due and payable at that time. We are required to make quarterly interest payments on borrowed funds. The Credit Agreement limits the incurrence of additional indebtedness, requires the maintenance of certain financial ratios, restricts us and our subsidiaries ability to pay cash dividends and contains other covenants customary in agreements of this type. We believe that the cash flow coverage ratio and the funded debt to EBITDA ratio covenants could prove to be the most restrictive. The interest rate for borrowings under the Credit Agreement is a LIBOR based rate with a margin spread of 250 to 325 basis points depending upon the maintenance of certain ratios. At December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all covenants. There were standby letters of credit outstanding in the amount of $42,000 and additional borrowings available were approximately $50.0 million. Please see Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014 for more information about the restrictive covenants imposed on us by the Credit Agreement. We believe that the combination of existing cash reserves, cash flows from operations and borrowing available under the Credit Agreement should provide us sufficient capital resources and liquidity to fund our planned operations through fiscal year 2015. However, there can be no assurance that such sources of capital will be sufficient to support our capital requirements in the long-term, and we may be required to issue additional debt or equity securities in the future to meet our capital requirements. There can be no assurance we would be able to issue additional equity or debt securities in the future on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Critical Accounting Policies There has been no material change to our critical accounting policies discussed in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014.