Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2023. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents incorporated by reference herein contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, could, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the timing, adoption, results and success of our rollout of our Aquana smart water valves and cloud-based control platform, future demand for our Quantum security solutions, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, potential tenders for permanent reservoir monitoring systems, future demand for OBX rental equipment, the adoption of Quantum's SADARproduct monitoring of subsurface reservoirs, the completion of new orders for channels of our GCL system, the fulfillment of customer payment obligations, the impact of and the recovery from the impact of the coronavirus (or COVID-19) pandemic, the impact of the current armed conflict between Russia and Ukraine, our ability to manage changes and the continued health or availability of management personnel, volatility and direction of oil prices, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefor, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and the provision of accounting reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our current judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023, as well as other cautionary language in such Annual Report and this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Such examples include, but are not limited to, the failure of the Quantum and OptoSeis or Aquana technology transactions to yield positive operating results, decreases in commodity price levels, the continued adverse impact of COVID-19 which could reduce demand for our products, the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance (despite substantial investment by us), our sensitivity to short term backlog, delayed or cancelled customer orders, product obsolescence resulting from poor industry conditions or new technologies, bad debt write-offs associated with customer accounts, inability to collect on promissory notes, lack of further orders for our OBX rental equipment, failure of our Quantum products to be adopted by the border and security perimeter market or a decrease in such market due to governmental changes, and infringement or failure to protect intellectual property. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Business Overview Unless otherwise specified, the discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refers to Geospace Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. We principally design and manufacture seismic instruments and equipment. These seismic products are marketed to the oil and gas industry and used to locate, characterize and monitor hydrocarbon producing reservoirs. We also market our seismic products to other industries for vibration monitoring, border and perimeter security and various geotechnical applications. We design and manufacture other products of a non-seismic nature, including water meter products, imaging equipment, remote shutoff water valves and Internet of Things ("IoT") platform and provide contract manufacturing services. We report and categorize our customers and products into three different segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. In recent years, the revenue contribution from our Adjacent Markets segment has grown to represent nearly half of our total revenue, which is reflective of our diversification strategy. Demand for our seismic products targeted at customers in our Oil and Gas Markets segment has been, and will likely continue to be, vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the oil and gas industry in general. For more information, please refer to the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the internet at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on our website at www.geospace.com. From time to time, we may post investor presentations on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or posted in the future, is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Products and Product Development Oil and Gas Markets Our Oil and Gas Markets business segment has historically accounted for the majority of our revenue. Geoscientists use seismic data primarily in connection with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves to map potential and known hydrocarbon bearing formations and the geologic structures that surround them. This segments products include wireless seismic data acquisition systems, reservoir characterization products and services, and traditional seismic exploration products such as geophones, hydrophones, leader wire, connectors, cables, marine streamer retrieval and steering devices and various other seismic products. We believe that our Oil and Gas Markets products are among the most technologically advanced instruments and equipment available for seismic data acquisition. Traditional Products An energy source and a data recording system are combined to acquire seismic data. We provide many of the components of seismic data recording systems, including geophones, hydrophones, multi-component sensors, leader wire, geophone strings, connectors, seismic telemetry cables and other seismic related products. On land, our customers use geophones, leader wire, cables and connectors to receive and measure seismic reflections resulting from an energy source into data recording units, which store the seismic information for subsequent processing and analysis. In the marine environment, large ocean-going vessels tow long seismic cables known as streamers containing hydrophones that are used to detect pressure changes. Hydrophones transmit electrical impulses back to the vessels data recording unit where the seismic data is stored for subsequent processing and analysis. Our marine seismic products also help steer streamers while being towed and help recover streamers if they become disconnected from the vessel. Our seismic sensor, cable and connector products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. Revenue from these products results primarily from seismic contractors purchasing our products as components of new seismic data acquisition systems or to repair and replace components of seismic data acquisition systems already in use. Wireless Products We have developed multiple versions of a land-based wireless (or nodal) seismic data acquisition system. Rather than utilizing interconnecting cables as required by most traditional land data acquisition systems, each of our wireless stations operate as an independent data collection system, allowing for virtually unlimited channel configurations. As a result, our wireless systems require less maintenance, which we believe allows our customers to operate more effectively and efficiently because of its reduced environmental impact, lower weight and ease of operation. Each wireless station is available in a single-channel or three-channel configuration. We have also developed a marine-based wireless seismic data acquisition system called the OBX, and recently released Mariner. Similar to our land-based wireless systems, these marine wireless systems may be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations and do not require interconnecting cables between each station. We have two versions of OBX nodal stations: a shallow water version that can be used in depths up to 750 meters and a deepwater version that can be deployed in depths of up to 3,450 meters. Through June 30, 2024, we have sold 14,000 OBX stations and we currently have 27,000 OBX stations in our rental fleet. The Mariner is a continuous, cable-free, four channel autonomous, shallow water ocean bottom recorder. Mariner is the next generation node designed for extended duration seabed ocean bottom seismic data acquisition. The slim profile nodes, which are part of our shallow water stations, are ideally deployed as deep as 750 meters. The device continuously records for up to 70 days and offers more rapid recharging times. Its slim profile creates space savings on seismic survey vessels, allowing contractors to fit up to 25% more nodes into a download/charge container. Through June 30, 2024, we have sold 7,600 Mariner nodes. Reservoir Products Seismic surveys repeated over selected time intervals show dynamic changes within a producing oil and gas reservoir, and operators can use these surveys to monitor the effects of oil and gas development and production. This type of reservoir monitoring requires special purpose or custom designed systems in which portability becomes less critical and functional reliability assumes greater importance. This reliability factor helps assure successful operations in inaccessible locations over a considerable period of time. Additionally, reservoirs located in deep water or harsh environments require special instrumentation and new techniques to maximize recovery. Reservoir monitoring also requires high-bandwidth, high-resolution seismic data for engineering project planning and reservoir management. Utilizing these reservoir monitoring tools, producers can enhance the recovery of oil and gas deposits over the life of a reservoir. We have developed permanently installed high-definition reservoir monitoring systems for land and ocean-bottom applications in producing oil and gas fields. Our electrical reservoir monitoring systems are currently installed on numerous offshore reservoirs in the North Sea and elsewhere. Through our acquisition of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology, we now offer both electrical and fiber optic reservoir monitoring systems. These high-definition seismic data acquisition systems have a flexible architecture allowing them to be configured as a subsurface system for both land and marine reservoir-monitoring projects. The scalable architecture of these systems enables custom designed configuration for applications ranging from low-channel engineering and environmental-scale surveys requiring a minimum number of recording channels to high-channel surveys required to efficiently conduct permanent reservoir monitoring (PRM). The modular architecture of these products allows virtually unlimited channel expansion for these systems. In the spring of 2023, we released a derivative of the OptoSeis technology for high temperature downhole applications. The product known as Insight by OptoSeis offers a passive, all-optical downhole sensor network - no electronics downhole - resulting in years long operational lifetime at 150 C. In addition, we produce seismic borehole acquisition systems that employ a fiber optic augmented wireline capable of very high data transmission rates. These systems are used for several reservoir monitoring applications, including an application pioneered by us allowing operators and service companies to monitor and measure the results of hydraulic fracturing operations. We believe our reservoir characterization products make seismic acquisition a cost-effective and reliable process for reservoir monitoring. Our multi-component seismic product developments also include an omni-directional geophone for use in reservoir monitoring, a compact marine three-component or four-component gimbaled sensor and special-purpose connectors, connector arrays and cases. We have maintained active discussions with multiple potential clients for future PRM systems. In July 2024, we received requests for bids on Front-End Engineering and Design studies from a major oil and gas producer issued ahead of PRM tenders that may follow. These are multistage, large-scale opportunities. We have not received any orders for a large-scale seabed PRM system since November 2012. Adjacent Markets Our Adjacent Markets businesses leverage upon existing manufacturing facilities and engineering capabilities utilized by our Oil and Gas Markets businesses. Many of the seismic products in our Oil and Gas Markets segment, with little or no modification, have direct application to other industries. Our business diversification strategy has centered largely on translating expertise in ruggedized engineering and manufacturing into expanded customer markets. To bolster the solid market share we have established in the water utility market for water meter cables, in fiscal year 2021, we acquired the smart water IoT company, Aquana. Industrial Products Our industrial products include water meter products, remote shut-off water valves and IoT Platform, contract manufacturing services and seismic sensors used for vibration monitoring. Our water meter products support the global smart meter connectivity water utility market. Our products provide our customers with highly reliable automated meter-reading and automated meter infrastructure with our robust water-proof connectors. Our field splice kits allow for accelerated repairs once identified. Our remote disconnect values and water IoT platform allows customers that manage multi-family and commercial properties to monitor their properties for leak and burst events, with real-time notifications, complimented with our remote-shut off to stop water damage. These products also allow water utilities to control and monitor water use remotely, discontinue or limit service without placing its employees in potential harm or danger. Our robust manufacturing capabilities have allowed us to provide specialized contract manufacturing services for printed circuit board manufacturing, cabling and harnesses, machining, injection molding and electronic system assembly. 16 Our seismic sensors provide unique high definition, low frequency sensing that allows for vibration monitoring in industrial machinery, mine safety and earthquake detection. Imaging Products Our imaging products include electronic pre-press products that employ direct thermal imaging, direct-to-screen printing systems, and digital inkjet printing technologies targeted at the commercial graphics, industrial graphics, textile and flexographic printing industries. Emerging Markets Our Emerging Markets business segment consists entirely of our Quantum business. Quantums product line includes a proprietary detection system called SADAR, which detects, locates and tracks items of interest in real-time. Using the SADAR technology, Quantum designs and sells products used for border and perimeter security surveillance, cross-border tunneling detection and other products targeted at movement monitoring, intrusion detection and situational awareness. SADAR's technology also provides passive seismic real-time monitoring in emerging energy applications such as Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) and geothermal energy. Quantum's customers include various agencies of the U.S. government including the Department of Defense, Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security and other agencies as well as energy companies needing real-time monitoring of seismic data. Consolidated Results of Operations We report and evaluate financial information for three segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended June 30, 2024 June 30, 2023 June 30, 2024 June 30, 2023 Oil and Gas Markets Traditional exploration product revenue $ 2,005 $ 3,363 $ 7,316 $ 9,509 Wireless exploration product revenue 6,978 13,786 52,291 45,920 Reservoir product revenue 191 523 323 810 Total revenue 9,174 17,672 59,930 56,239 Income (loss) from operations (2,302 ) 3,238 9,126 9,820 Adjacent Markets Industrial product revenue 13,025 11,678 28,492 29,250 Imaging product revenue 2,945 3,184 9,528 9,142 Total revenue 15,970 14,862 38,020 38,392 Income from operations 4,661 4,346 9,491 9,148 Emerging Markets Revenue 640 109 1,987 393 Loss from operations (1,148 ) (1,047 ) (2,424 ) (3,267 ) Corporate Revenue 74 72 223 170 Operating loss (3,604 ) (3,391 ) (10,255 ) (8,457 ) Consolidated Totals Revenue 25,858 32,715 100,160 95,194 Income (loss) from operations (2,393 ) 3,146 5,938 7,244 Overview Although in an already depressed oil and gas industry, demand further decreased in February 2020, because of the oversupply of crude oil due to failed OPEC negotiations that led to a dramatic drop in crude oil prices when combined with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. These declines in the demand for oil and gas have caused oil and gas exploration and production companies to experience a significant reduction in cash flows, which have resulted in reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic data acquisition activities. Crude oil prices have stabilized over the past two years; however, a lag in time typically occurs between higher oil prices and greater demand for our Oil and Gas Markets segment products. We believe this lag is the result of exploration and production (E&P) companies allocating their cash flow towards shareholder reward initiatives, such as stock buy-back programs and dividend payments, or in debt reduction. We believe this lag is a short-term trend that will continue until E&P companies decide to reinvest capital into exploration activities. As this lag persists, we expect the reduced levels of demand for our Oil and Gas Markets segment products. We also expect our land-based traditional and wireless products will continue to experience low levels of product demand until our customers consume their excess levels of underutilized equipment. As discussed below, we had a $30 million wireless product sale to a customer in the first quarter of fiscal year 2024. However, we do not currently anticipate another product sale this large for the remainder of fiscal year 2024. In light of current market conditions, the inventory balances in our Oil and Gas Markets business segment at June 30, 2024 continued to exceed levels we consider appropriate for the current level of product demand. We are continuing to work aggressively to reduce these legacy inventory balances; however, we are also adding new inventories for new wireless product developments and for other product demand in our Adjacent Markets segment. During periods of excessive inventory levels, our policy has been, and will continue to be, to record obsolescence expense as we experience reduced product demand and as our inventories continue to age. Although the Oil and Gas Markets segment is seeing a recovery after experiencing difficult market conditions, we have been recording additional expenses for inventory obsolescence and will continue to do so in the future until product demand and/or resulting inventory turnover return to acceptable levels. 17 Armed Conflict Between Russia and Ukraine A portion of our oil and gas product manufacturing is conducted by Geospace Technologies Eurasia LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary based in the Russian Federation. Consequently, our oil and gas business could be directly affected by the current war between Russia and Ukraine. See Note 14 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Coronavirus (COVID-19) The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted worldwide economic activity and continues to create challenges in our markets. The COVID-19 pandemic and the related mitigation measures have disrupted our supply chain, resulting in longer lead times in materials available from suppliers and extended shipping time for these materials to reach our facilities. The occurrence or resurgence of global or regional health events such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and the related government responses, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. As such, we will continue to closely monitor COVID-19 and will continue to reassess our strategy and operational structure on a regular, ongoing basis. Three and nine months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the three and nine months ended June 30, 2023 Consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2024, was $25.9 million, a decrease of $6.9 million, or 21.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in rental revenue due to lower utilization of our OBX rental fleet. Consolidated revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, was $100.2 million, an increase of $5.0 million, or 5.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was largely due to a $30.0 million sale of our Mariner shallow water ocean bottom nodes in the first quarter of fiscal year 2024, which replaced a rental contract with the customer. We do not expect another product sale this large for the remainder of fiscal year 2024. The increase was largely offset by a decrease in rental revenue due to lower utilization of our OBX rental fleet. Consolidated gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2024,was $8.5 million, a decrease of $5.5 million, or 39.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in gross profit was primarily due to decrease in utilization of our OBX rental fleet. Consolidated gross profit for the nine months ended June 30, 2024,was $36.6 million, a decrease of $0.8 million, or 2.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to (i) the decrease in utilization of our OBX rental fleet and (ii) a higher warranty accrual, primarily related to the Mariner sale. The decrease was largely offset offset by gross profit on our Mariner sale in the first quarter of fiscal year 2024. Consolidated operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2024,were $10.9 million, an increase of $0.1 million, or 0.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to higher sales and marketing costs, primarily personnel costs. Consolidated operating expenses for the nine months ended June 30, 2024,were $30.7 million, a decrease of $0.8 million, or 2.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to lower personnel costs attributable to our workforce reduction in first quarter of fiscal year 2023, which included $0.4 million in employee termination costs. In February 2023, we sold our property located at 7310 Langfield in Houston, Texas for a cash sales price of $3.7 million, net of closing costs of $0.3 million. We recognized a gain of $1.3 million from the sale in the second quarter of fiscal year 2023. Consolidated other income for each of the three months ended June 30, 2024, and June 30, 2023, was $0.3 million. Consolidated other income for the nine months ended June 30, 2024 was $0.5 million, compared to $0.8 million from the corresponding period of the prior year. The decrease for the nine months ended June 30, 2024 was principally due to net foreign currency transaction losses, partially offset by an increase in interest income attributable to short-term investments. Segment Results of Operations Oil and Gas Markets Revenue Revenue from our Oil and Gas Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2024, decreased $8.5 million, or 48.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our Oil and Gas Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, increased $3.7 million, or 6.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of these changes were as follows: Traditional Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2024, revenue from our traditional products decreased $1.4 million, or 40.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2024, revenue from our traditional products decreased $2.2 million, or 23.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for both periods was primarily due to a decrease in demand for our sensor and marine products. Wireless Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2024, revenue from our wireless exploration products decreased $6.8 million, or 49.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in rental revenue due to lower utilization of our OBX rental fleet. For the nine months ended June 30, 2024, revenue from our wireless exploration products increased $6.4 million, or 13.9%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to a $30.0 million sale of our Mariner shallow water ocean bottom nodes, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2024, which replaced a rental contract with the customer. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in rental revenue attributable to lower utilization of our OBX rental fleet. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) associated with our Oil and Gas Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2024, was $(2.3) million, a decrease of $5.5 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to lower wireless rental revenue and related gross profits due to a decrease in the utilization of our OBX rental fleet. Operating income associated with our Oil and Gas Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, was $9.1 million, a decrease of $0.7 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating income for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, was primarily due to lower wireless rental revenue and related gross profits due to a decrease in the utilization of our OBX rental fleet. The decrease was partially offset by higher gross profits on wireless product sales, primarily related to the Mariner sale in the first quarter of fiscal year 2024. 18 Adjacent Markets Revenue Revenue from our Adjacent Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2024, increased $1.1 million, or 7.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our Adjacent Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, decreased $0.4 million, or 1.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of these changes was as follows: Industrial Product Revenue and Services For the three months ended June 30, 2024, revenue from our industrial products increased $1.3 million, or 11.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for the three months ended June 30, 2024, was primarily due to an increase in demand for our water meter products, partially offset by a decrease in demand for our contract manufacturing services. For the nine months ended June 30, 2024, revenue from our industrial products decreased $0.8 million, or 2.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, was primarily due to lower demand for both our water meter products and contract manufacturing services. Imaging Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2024, revenue from our imaging products decreased $0.2 million, or 7.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for the three months ended June 30, 2024, was primarily due to lower demand for our imaging equipment, For the nine months ended June 30, 2024, revenue from our imaging products increased $0.4 million, or 4.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, was primarily due to higher demand for our film products, partially offset by lower demand for our imaging equipment. Operating Income Operating income from our Adjacent Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2024, was $4.7 million, an increase of $0.3 million, or 7.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for the three months ended June 30, 2024 was primarily due to (i) the increase in revenue and (ii) gross margin improvements from fully absorbing our fixed overhead. Operating income from our Adjacent Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2024 was $9.5 million, an increase of $0.3 million, or 3.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating income for nine months ended June 30, 2024 was primarily due to the gross margin improvements. The increase in operating income for both periods was partially offset by higher research and development expense. Emerging Markets Revenue Revenue from our Emerging Markets products was $0.6 million for three months ended June 30, 2024, compared to $0.1 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our Emerging Markets products was $2.0 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, compared to $0.4 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue for both the three and nine months ended June 30, 2024, was primarily due to revenue recognized on a $1.5 million government contract. No further revenue is expected on this contract. Operating Loss Operating loss from our Emerging Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2024, was $1.1 million, an increase of $0.1 million, or 9.6%, from the corresponding period in the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating loss for the three months June 30, 2024, was primarily due to a decrease in gross profit caused by cost overruns on our $1.5 million government contract. Operating loss for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, was $2.4 million, a decrease of $0.8 million, or 25.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating loss for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, was primarily due to lower personnel costs attributable to our workforce reduction in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2024, we had $42.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. For the nine months ended June 30, 2024, we used $7.5 million of cash from operating activities. These uses of cash included a (i) $5.8 million increase in inventories for the strategic purchase of long lead components needed for use in wireless products, valves and contract manufacturing, (ii) $3.0 million decrease in other liabilities due to the return of customer deposits and lower accrued employee compensation costs, partially offset by an increase in our product warranty accrual and (iii) $1.4 million decrease in accounts payable due to timing of payments to our suppliers. These uses of cash were partially offset by our net income of $6.3 million and net non-cash charges of $12.1 million resulting from deferred income taxes, depreciation, amortization, accretion, inventory obsolescence, stock-based compensation and provision for credit losses. Other sources of cash included a (i) $5.2 million decrease in trade accounts and notes receivable primarily due to the timing of collections from customers and (ii) $0.2 million decrease in other assets. For the nine months ended June 30, 2024, we generated cash of $3.9 million in investing activities. Sources of cash primarily consisted of $30.9 million of proceeds from the sale of rental equipment. Uses of cash included (i) $15.3 million in purchases of short-term investments, net, (ii) $8.2 million for additions to our equipment rental fleet and (iii) $3.6 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment. We expect cash investments into our rental fleet will be approximately $12 million in fiscal year 2024. We expect our cash investments in our property, plant and equipment will be approximately $5 million in fiscal year 2024. Our capital expenditures are expected to be funded from our cash on hand, cash flows, including cash flows from rental contracts or, if necessary, borrowings under our new credit agreement. For the nine months ended June 30, 2024, we used $3.0 million from financing activities for the purchase of treasury stock pursuant to a stock buy-back program authorized by our board of directors. The program authorizes us to repurchase up to $5 million of our common stock in open market transactions. At June 30, 2024, $2 million of our common stock remains available for repurchases under the program. Our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was $42.5 million at June 30, 2024, which included $3.4 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices, of which $2.0 million was held by our subsidiary in the Russian Federation. In response to sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other countries on the Russian Federation, the Russian government has imposed restrictions on companies' abilities to repatriate or otherwise remit cash from their Russian-based operations to locations outside of Russia. As a result, this cash can be used in our Russian operations, but we may be unable to transfer it out of Russia without incurring substantial costs, if at all. In addition, if we were to repatriate the cash held by our Russian subsidiary, we would be required to accrue and pay taxes on any amount repatriated. On July 26, 2023, we entered into a credit agreement (the Agreement) with Woodforest National Bank, as sole lender. The Agreement refinanced our credit agreement dated May 6, 2022, with Amerisource Funding, Inc., as administrative agent and as a lender, and Woodforest National Bank, as a lender. The Agreement provides a revolving credit facility with a maximum availability of $15 million. Availability under the Agreement is determined based upon a borrowing base comprised of certain of our domestic assets which include (i) 80% of eligible accounts receivable, plus (ii) 90% of eligible foreign insured accounts, plus (iii) 25% of eligible inventory plus (iv) 50% of the orderly liquidation value of eligible equipment, in each case subject to certain limitations and adjustments. Interest shall accrue on outstanding borrowings at a rate equal to Term SOFR (Secured Overnight Financing Rate) plus a margin equal to 3.25% per annum. We are required to make monthly interest payments on borrowed funds. The Agreement is secured by substantially all of our assets, except for certain excluded property. The Agreement requires us to maintain a minimum (i) consolidated tangible net worth of $100 million, (ii) liquidity of $5 million, and (iii) current ratio no less than 2.00 to 1.00, in each case tested quarterly. The Agreement also requires us to maintain a springing minimum interest coverage ratio of 1.50 to 1.00, tested quarterly whenever there is an outstanding balance on the revolving credit facility. The Agreement expires in July 2025. At June 30, 2024 we had no outstanding borrowings under the Agreement and our borrowing base availability under the Agreement was $14.9 million after consideration of a $0.1 million outstanding letter of credit. We were in compliance with all covenants under the Agreement. We do not currently anticipate the need to borrow under the Agreement, however, we may decide to do so in the future, if needed. Our total available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased $8.8 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2024, largely due to the collection of an account receivable related to our first quarter 2024 Mariner sale. In the absence of future profitable results of operations, we may need to rely on other sources of liquidity to fund our future operations, including executed rental contracts, available borrowings under the Agreement through its expiration in July 2025, leveraging real estate assets, sales of rental assets and other liquidity sources which may be available to us. We currently believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to finance any future operating losses and planned capital expenditures through the next twelve months. We do not have any obligations which meet the definition of an off-balance sheet arrangement and which have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial statements or the items contained therein that are material to investors. Contractual Obligations Contingent Compensation Costs In connection with the acquisition of Aquana in July 2021, we are subject to additional contingent cash payments to the former members of Aquana over a six-year earn-out period. The contingent payments, if any, will be derived from certain eligible revenue generated during the earn-out period from products and services sold by Aquana. There is no maximum limit to the contingent cash payments that could be made. The merger agreement with Aquana requires the continued employment of a certain key employee and former member of Aquana for the first four years of the six year earn-out period for any of Aquanas former members to be eligible to any earn-out payments. In accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations, due to the continued employment requirement, no liability has been recorded for the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out payments for this transaction. Earn-outs achieved, if any, will be recorded as compensation expense when incurred. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information on our contractual contingencies. Critical Accounting Estimates During the nine months ended June 30, 2024, there has been no material change to our critical accounting estimates discussed in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.