Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents incorporated by reference herein, if any, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefore, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014, as well as other cautionary language in such Annual Report and this Quarterly Report, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Business Overview Geospace Technologies Corporation is a Texas corporation originally incorporated in Delaware on September 27, 1994. At the Companys 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the Companys stockholders approved the reincorporation of the Company from the State of Delaware to the State of Texas pursuant to a merger of the Company with and into a newly formed Texas corporation wholly owned by the Company. Unless otherwise specified, the discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refers to Geospace Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. We design and manufacture instruments and equipment used in the acquisition and processing of seismic data as well as in the characterization and monitoring of producing oil and gas reservoirs. Demand for our products has been, and will likely continue to be, vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the oil and gas industry in general. For more information, please refer to the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014. We have engaged in the seismic instrument and equipment business since 1980 and market our products primarily to the oil and gas industry. We also design, manufacture and distribute non-seismic equipment including thermal imaging equipment and industrial products. We report and categorize our customers and products into two different segments: Seismic and Non-Seismic. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SECs public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on their public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on our website at http://www.geospace.com. From time to time, we may post investor presentations on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or posted in the future, is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 16 Products and Product Development Seismic Products Our seismic business segment accounts for the majority of our revenues. Geoscientists use seismic data primarily in connection with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves to map potential and known hydrocarbon bearing formations and the geologic structures that surround them. Our seismic product lines currently consist of land and marine nodal data acquisition systems, permanent land and seabed reservoir monitoring products and services, geophones and geophone strings, hydrophones, leader wire, connectors, telemetry cables, marine streamer retrieval and steering devices and various other products. Our seismic products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. We believe that our seismic products are among the most technologically advanced instruments and equipment available for seismic data acquisition. Traditional Products An energy source and a data recording system are combined to acquire seismic data. We provide many of the components of seismic data recording systems, including geophones, hydrophones, multi-component sensors, leader wire, geophone strings, connectors, seismic telemetry cables and other seismic related products. On land, our customers use geophones, leader wire, cables and connectors to receive and measure seismic reflections resulting from an energy source into data recording units, which store the seismic information for subsequent processing and analysis. In the marine environment, large ocean-going vessels tow long seismic cables known as streamers containing hydrophones which are used to detect pressure changes. Hydrophones transmit electrical impulses back to the vessels data recording unit where the seismic data is stored for subsequent processing and analysis. Our marine seismic products help steer streamers while being towed and help recover streamers if they become disconnected from the vessel. Our seismic sensor, cable and connector products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. Sales result primarily from seismic contractors purchasing our products as components of new seismic data acquisition systems or to repair and replace components of seismic data acquisition systems already in use. Our products used in marine seismic data acquisition include our marine seismic streamer retrieval devices (SRDs). Occasionally, streamer cables are severed and become disconnected from the vessel as a result of obstacles, inclement weather, vessel traffic or human error. Our SRDs, which are attached to the streamer cables, contain air bags which are designed to inflate automatically at a given water depth, bringing the severed streamer cables to the surface. These SRDs save the seismic contractors significant time and money compared to the alternative of losing the streamer cable. We also produce seismic streamer steering devices, or birds, which are fin-like devices that attach to the streamer cable. These birds help maintain the streamer cable at a certain desired depth as it is being towed through the water. Our wholly-owned subsidiary in the Russian Federation manufactures international standard geophones, sensors, seismic leader wire, seismic telemetry cables and related seismic products for customers in the Russian Federation and other international seismic marketplaces. We have a branch office in Colombia that primarily rents seismic equipment to our customers in the South American market. Wireless Products We have developed a land-based wireless (or nodal) seismic data acquisition system called the GSX. Each GSX station operates independently and therefore can be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations. Rather than utilizing interconnecting cables as required by most traditional land data acquisition systems, each GSX station operates as an independent data collection system. As a result, our GSX system requires less maintenance, which we believe allows our customers to operate more effectively and efficiently because of its reduced environmental impact, lower weight and ease of operation. Our GSX system is designed into configurations ranging from one to four channels per station. Since its introduction in 2008 and through June 30, 2015, we have sold 332,000 GSX channels and we have 129,000 GSX channels in our rental fleet. We do not expect to expand our GSX rental fleet in the foreseeable future. We have also developed a marine-based wireless seismic data acquisition system called the OBX. Similar to our GSX land-based wireless system, the marine OBX system can be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations and does not require interconnecting cables between each station. Our deep water versions of the OBX system can be deployed in depths of up to 3,450 meters. Through June 30, 2015, we have sold 450 OBX stations and we have 4,500 OBX stations in our rental fleet. We expect to make additional investments in our OBX rental fleet in fiscal year 2015 and beyond. 17 Reservoir Products Seismic surveys repeated over selected time intervals show dynamic changes within the reservoir and can be used to monitor the effects of oil and gas production. In this regard, we have developed permanently installed high-definition reservoir monitoring systems for land and ocean-bottom applications in producing oil and gas fields. We also produce a retrievable version of our ocean-bottom system for use on fields where permanently installed systems are not appropriate or economical. Utilizing these tools, producers can enhance the recovery of oil and gas deposits over the life of a reservoir. Our high-definition reservoir monitoring products include the HDSeis product line and a suite of borehole and reservoir monitoring products and services. Our HDSeis system is a high-definition seismic data acquisition system with flexible architecture that allows it to be configured as a borehole seismic system or as a subsurface system for both land and marine reservoir-monitoring projects. The scalable architecture of the HDSeis system enables custom designed system configuration for applications ranging from low-channel engineering and environmental-scale surveys requiring a minimum number of recording channels to high-channel surveys required to efficiently conduct permanent reservoir imaging and monitoring. Modular architecture allows virtually unlimited channel expansion. In addition, multi-system synchronization features make the HDSeis system well suited for multi-well or multi-site acquisition, simultaneous surface and downhole acquisition and continuous reservoir monitoring projects. Reservoir monitoring requires special purpose or custom designed systems in which portability becomes less critical and functional reliability assumes greater importance. This reliability factor helps assure successful operations in inaccessible locations over a considerable period of time. Additionally, reservoirs located in deep water or harsh environments require special instrumentation and new techniques to maximize recovery. Reservoir monitoring also requires high-bandwidth, high-resolution seismic data for engineering project planning and reservoir management. We believe our HDSeis System and tools, designed for cost-effective deployment and lifetime performance, will make borehole and seabed seismic acquisition a cost-effective and reliable process for the challenges of reservoir monitoring. Our multi-component seismic product developments include an omni-directional geophone for use in reservoir monitoring, a compact marine three-component or four-component gimbaled sensor and special-purpose connectors, connector arrays and cases. In November 2012, we received an order from Statoil (the Statoil Order) for $171.7 million, including amendments, to instrument two reservoirs in the North Sea. During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2014, we recognized revenues of $109.6 million and $62.1 million, respectively, from the Statoil Order using the percentage of completion revenue recognition method. Also during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014, we delivered a $5.0 million permanent land reservoir monitoring system for use in Saudi Arabia and a $4.4 million system to enlarge BPs existing Valhall field system. We have not delivered nor have we received orders for any permanent reservoir monitoring systems during the first nine months of fiscal year 2015. In addition, we produce seismic borehole acquisition systems which employ a fiber optic augmented wireline capable of very high data transmission rates. These systems are used for several reservoir monitoring applications, including an application pioneered by us allowing operators and service companies to monitor and measure the results of fracturing operations. Non-Seismic Products Our non-seismic businesses leverage upon our existing manufacturing facilities and engineering capabilities. We have found that many of our seismic products, with little or no modification, have direct application to industries beyond those involved in oil and gas exploration and development. For example, our customers utilize our seismic borehole tools to monitor subsurface carbon dioxide injections and for mine safety applications. Our non-seismic products include thermal imaging products targeted at the commercial graphics industry as well as various industrial products which include (i) sensors and tools for vibration monitoring, mine safety application and earthquake detection, (ii) cables for power and communication for the offshore oil and gas and offshore construction industries, and (iii) water meter cables and other specialty cable and connector products. 18 Consolidated Results of Operations We report and evaluate financial information for two segments: Seismic and Non-Seismic. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended June 30, 2015 June 30, 2014 June 30, 2015 June 30, 2014 Seismic Traditional exploration product revenues $ 6,323 $ 9,928 $ 23,613 $ 43,272 Wireless exploration product revenues 6,017 12,184 23,796 70,333 Reservoir product revenues 1,198 13,265 4,503 80,702 Total seismic revenues 13,538 35,377 51,912 194,307 Operating income (loss) ( 10,253 ) 8,149 ( 23,382 ) 66,165 Non-Seismic Net revenues 6,098 5,209 16,548 15,916 Operating income 971 777 2,331 1,814 Corporate Net revenues 115 142 399 404 Operating loss ( 3,169 ) ( 3,468 ) ( 9,837 ) ( 10,898 ) Consolidated Totals Net revenues 19,751 40,728 68,859 210,627 Operating income (loss) ( 12,451 ) 5,458 ( 30,888 ) 57,081 Overview During fiscal year 2013 and through the first half of fiscal year 2014, we experienced very strong market demand in both North American and international markets for our wireless GSX channels and geophone sensors. Also during that period, we reported significant revenues from our seismic reservoir products, primarily from the Statoil Order. Early in calendar year 2014, we began to experience a softening in the demand for our seismic exploration products, particularly in North America, as capital budgets for oil and gas producers were trending away from exploration-focused activities toward production and exploitation activities. During this period oil production in North Americas unconventional shale reservoirs increased, as did oil production from non-OPEC countries, resulting in an oversupply of crude oil in the world market. Since July 2014, market prices for a barrel of crude oil declined from over $100 to less than $50 today. With the decline in oil and natural gas prices, exploration and production companies have had a significant reduction in cash flows resulting in sharp reductions in capital spending budgets for current and future oil and gas exploration and production activities, including seismic activities. In addition, the Statoil Order was completed in April 2014 and we have not received any new orders for permanent reservoir monitoring systems since that time. Consequently, revenues from our seismic business segment for the nine months ended June 30, 2015 declined 73.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, to $51.9 million resulting in an operating loss of $23.4 million. We expect sales of our seismic products, and in particular our traditional and wireless products, to be challenged until crude oil prices stabilize and industry conditions improve. We expect these challenging industry conditions to negatively impact the demand for our seismic products throughout fiscal year 2015 and beyond. Three and nine months ended June 30, 2015 compared to three and nine months ended June 30, 2014 Consolidated revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2015 decreased by $21.0 million, or 51.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated revenues for the nine months ended June 30, 2015 decreased by $141.8 million, or 67.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. These revenue decreases were attributable to substantially lower product demand in our seismic business segment. 19 Consolidated gross profit (loss) for t he three months ended June 30 , 2015 decreased $ 18. 7 million, or 1 21.5 %, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated gross profit for the nine months ended June 30 , 2015 decreased $ 92. 3 million, or 10 2 .1%, from the corresponding pe riod of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in gross profit for the three and nine months ended June 30 , 2015 was caused by a number of factors, including (i) significantly lower seismic product revenues, (ii) unabsorbed fixed manufacturing costs due to l ow factory utilization , (iii) fixed depreciation expenses from our rental equipment during periods of low rental equipment utilization, (iv) a sales mix containing a concentration of significantly lower-margin products caused by a substantial reduction in revenues from our wireless and reservoir products, (v) increased warranty costs due to product defects , and (vi) increased inventory obsolescence expenses due to higher levels of slow-moving inventories . Should current industry conditions persist, w e expect our seismic product profit margins to be under significant stress for the remainder of fiscal year 2015 and into the future due to each of the factors cited above . In addition, continued negative industry conditions could lead to asset impairments in the future. Consolidated operating expenses for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2015 decreased $0.8 million or 7.8%, and $4.3 million or 13.0%, respectively, from the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for each period ended June 30, 2015 was primarily due to the elimination of incentive compensation expenses and was partially offset by increased bad debt expense. Other expense for the three months and nine months ended June 30, 2015 increased $0.4 million and decreased $1.8 million, respectively, from the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. These changes in other expense were primarily due to foreign exchange gains and losses attributable to U.S. dollar deposits held by our Russian subsidiary. Our effective tax rates for the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 were (33.8)% and 29.7%, respectively. Our effective tax rates for the nine months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 were (34.6)% and 31.8%, respectively. The lower effective tax rates for each of the periods ended June 30, 2014 primarily resulted from a manufacturers/producers deduction available to U.S. manufacturers. Seismic Products Revenues Our seismic product revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2015 decreased by $21.8 million, or 61.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenues of our seismic products for the nine months ended June 30, 2015 decreased by $142.4 million, or 73.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of this decrease include the following: Traditional Product Revenues and Rentals For the three months ended June 30, 2015, revenues from our traditional products decreased $3.6 million, or 36.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2015, revenues from our traditional products decreased $19.7 million, or 45.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2015 reflects lower demand for our geophone and marine products due to the soft industry conditions described above. In addition, the first quarter results of the prior year period included large orders for geophones which accompanied the sale of GSX wireless systems. Wireless Product Revenues and Rentals For the three months ended June 30, 2015, revenues from our GSX and OBX wireless products decreased by $6.2 million, or 50.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2015, revenues from our GSX and OBX wireless products decreased by $46.5 million, or 66.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. These results reflect declines in both product and rental revenues and are a direct result of reduced demand caused by soft industry conditions in todays market. Although overall wireless rental revenues declined, rental revenues from our OBX marine nodal systems increased in both periods ended June 30, 2015. If industry conditions improve and demand resumes for seismic products and services, we believe that future demand for our GSX and OBX will increase as seismic contractors transition to wireless systems to improve efficiencies and lower cost in lieu of less efficient cabled land and marine systems, although we expect this order flow to continue to be erratic from quarter to quarter. Reservoir Product Revenues, Rentals and Services For the three months ended June 30, 2015, revenues from our reservoir products decreased $12.1 million, or 91.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2015, revenues from our reservoir products decreased $76.2 million, or 94.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior year. The decrease in revenues for each of the periods ended June 30, 2015 was primarily due to Statoil Order deliveries in the prior year periods. There were no permanent reservoir monitoring systems delivered in fiscal year 2015. While we continue to actively market these products to our customers, currently, we do not expect to receive any substantial permanent reservoir monitoring contracts during fiscal year 2015. 20 Customer orders for our seismic produc ts, especially large orders for our GSX and OBX wireless systems and our subsea permanent reservoir monitoring systems, generally occur irregularly making it difficult for us to predict our sales and production levels each quarter. Furthermore, product sh ipping dates are generally determined by our customers and are not at our discretion. As a result, these factors have caused past revenues of our seismic products to be unpredictable, or lumpy, and we expect this trend to continue into the future. Operating Income (Loss) Our operating income (loss) associated with revenues from our seismic products for the three months ended June 30, 2015 decreased by $18.4 million, or 225.8% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Our operating income (loss) associated with revenues from our seismic products for the nine months ended June 30, 2015 decreased by $89.5 million, or 135.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating income for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2015 was due to the substantial decline in our product revenues which, in turn, resulted in substantially lower gross profits due to the factors described above. Non-Seismic Products Revenues Revenues from our non-seismic products for the three months ended June 30, 2015 increased by $0.9 million, or 17.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenues from our non-seismic products for the nine months ended June 30, 2015 increased by $0.6 million, or 4.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenues for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2015 was primarily due to increased demand for our industrial products. Operating Income Our operating income associated with revenues from our non-seismic products for the three months ended June 30, 2015 increased $0.2 million, or 25.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Our operating income associated with revenues from our non-seismic products for the nine months ended June 30, 2015 increased $0.5 million, or 28.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating income for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2015 was primarily the result of increased demand for our industrial products and margin improvements from our offshore cable products. Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2015, we had approximately $25.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $19.6 million in short-term investments. For the nine months ended June 30, 2015, we used $6.8 million of cash from operating activities. These uses of cash included (i) our net loss of $19.2 million, (ii) a $8.1 million decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities primarily due to the payment of fiscal year 2014 incentive compensation and calendar year 2014 property taxes, (iii) a $6.8 million increase in income tax receivable resulting from our pretax loss and our intent to claim a refund of taxes paid in prior years, (iv) a $1.8 million decrease in accounts payable due to declining inventory purchases resulting from reduced product demand, and (v) a $3.4 million decrease in deferred revenue primarily due to the revenue recognition of a $3.0 million non-refundable customer deposit. These uses of cash were partially offset by (i) net non-cash charges of $18.6 million from deferred income taxes, depreciation, accretion, stock-based compensation, inventory obsolescence and bad debts, (ii) a $7.3 million decrease in trade accounts and notes receivable resulting from collections and a decline in revenues, (iii) a $5.3 million decrease in inventories caused by reduced product demand and a drawdown of our excess inventories, and (iv) a $2.8 million decrease in prepaid and other current assets. For the nine months ended June 30, 2015, we used cash of $1.1 million from investing activities. These uses of cash included (i) capital expenditures of $3.8 million to expand our rental equipment fleet and (ii) $2.0 million for additions to our property and equipment. These uses of cash were partially offset by (i) proceeds of $4.5 million from the sale of used rental equipment and (ii) net proceeds of $0.1 million from the sale of short-term investments. Regarding future investments into our rental fleet, we expect total fiscal year 2015 cash investments into our rental fleet to be $4.5 million and non-cash transfers from our inventory account of $5.5 million or more. We estimate total fiscal year 2015 cash investments in property, plant and equipment will be approximately $2.5 million, including $0.5 million related to the expansion of our Houston manufacturing and engineering facilities. If industry conditions were to improve substantially or if we receive significant PRM system orders, we may accelerate our facility expansion plans. We expect these capital expenditures will be financed from our cash on hand, internal cash flow, rental equipment sales proceeds and/or from borrowings under our credit agreement. For the nine months ended June 30, 2015, we had no cash flows from financing activities. 21 On March 2, 2011, we entered into a credit agreement with Frost Bank. On September 27, 2013, we amended the credit agreement and increased the borrowing availability to $50.0 million (as amended, the Credit Agreement). The interest rate for borrowings under the Credit Agreement was a LIBOR based rate with a margin spread of 250 to 325 bas is points depending upon the maintenance of certain ratios. On May 4, 2015, we again amended the Credit Agreement which reduced our borrowing availability to $30.0 million with amounts available for borrowing determined by a borrowing base. Under the amendments to the Credit Agreement, the borrowing base is determined based upon certain or our and our U.S. subsidiaries assets which include (i) 80% of certain accounts receivable plus (ii) 50% of certain notes receivable (such result not to exceed $10 million) plus (iii) 25% of certain inventories (excluding work-in-process inventories). As of June 30, 2015, our borrowing base was $39.8 million resulting in borrowing availability of $30.0 million less any outstanding letters of credit. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement as amended are secured by substantially all our assets. In addition, each of our domestic subsidiaries have guaranteed our obligations under the Credit Agreement as amended and such subsidiaries have secured the obligations by the pledge of substantially all of the assets of such subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement as amended expires on May 4, 2018 and all borrowed funds are due and payable at that time. We are required to make monthly interest payments on any borrowed funds. The Credit Agreement as amended limits the incurrence of additional indebtedness, requires the maintenance of a single financial ratio that compares certain of our assets to certain of our liabilities, restricts the Company and its subsidiaries ability to pay cash dividends and contains other covenants customary in agreements of this type. The interest rate for borrowings under the Credit Agreement as amended is based on the Wall Street Journal prime rate, which was 3.25% at June 30, 2015. We believe that the combination of existing cash reserves, cash flows from operations and borrowings available under the Credit Agreement as amended should provide us sufficient capital resources and liquidity to fund our planned operations through fiscal year 2015 and beyond. However, there can be no assurance that such sources of capital will be sufficient to support our capital requirements in the long-term, and we may be required to issue additional debt or equity securities in the future to meet our capital requirements. There can be no assurance we would be able to issue additional equity or debt securities in the future on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. At June 30, 2015, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as amended. At June 30, 2015, the Company had standby letters of credit outstanding in the amount of $130,000. Please see Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014 for more information about the restrictive covenants imposed on us by the Credit Agreement as amended. Critical Accounting Policies There has been no material change to our critical accounting policies discussed in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014.