Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2021. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents incorporated by reference herein contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, could, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the adoption, results and success of our rollout of our Aquana smart water valves and cloud-based control platform, future demand for our Quantum security solutions, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, potential tenders for permanent reservoir monitoring systems, future demand for OBX systems, the completion of new orders for channels of our GCL system, the fulfillment of customer payment obligations, the impact of and the recovery from the impact of the coronavirus (or COVID-19) pandemic, our ability to manage changes and the continued health or availability of management personnel, volatility and direction of oil prices, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefor, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and the provision of accounting reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our current judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021, as well as other cautionary language in such Annual Report and this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Such examples include, but are not limited to, the failure of the Quantum and OptoSeis or Aquana technology transactions to yield positive operating results, decreases in commodity price levels, and continued adverse impact of COVID-19 which could reduce demand for our products, the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance (despite substantial investment by us), our sensitivity to short term backlog, delayed or cancelled customer orders, product obsolescence resulting from poor industry conditions or new technologies, bad debt write-offs associated with customer accounts, inability to collect on promissory notes, lack of further orders for our OBX rental equipment, failure of our Quantum products to be adopted by the border and security perimeter market or a decrease in such market due to governmental changes, and infringement or failure to protect intellectual property. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Business Overview Unless otherwise specified, the discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refers to Geospace Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. We principally design and manufacture seismic instruments and equipment. These seismic products are marketed to the oil and gas industry and used to locate, characterize and monitor hydrocarbon producing reservoirs. We also market our seismic products to other industries for vibration monitoring, border and perimeter security and various geotechnical applications. We design and manufacture other products of a non-seismic nature, including water meter products, imaging equipment, offshore cables, remote shutoff water valves and Internet of Things (IoT) platform and provide contract manufacturing services. We report and categorize our customers and products into three different segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. Demand for our products targeted at customers in our Oil and Gas Markets segment has been, and will likely continue to be, vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the oil and gas industry in general. For more information, please refer to the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the internet at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on our website at www.geospace.com. From time to time, we may post investor presentations on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or 20 posted in the future, is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Products and Product Development Oil and Gas Markets Our Oil and Gas Markets business segment has historically accounted for the majority of our revenue. Geoscientists use seismic data primarily in connection with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves to map potential and known hydrocarbon bearing formations and the geologic structures that surround them. This segments products include wireless seismic data acquisition systems, reservoir characterization products and services, and traditional seismic exploration products such as geophones, hydrophones, leader wire, connectors, cables, marine streamer retrieval and steering devices and various other seismic products. We believe that our Oil and Gas Markets products are among the most technologically advanced instruments and equipment available for seismic data acquisition. Traditional Products An energy source and a data recording system are combined to acquire seismic data. We provide many of the components of seismic data recording systems, including geophones, hydrophones, multi-component sensors, leader wire, geophone strings, connectors, seismic telemetry cables and other seismic related products. On land, our customers use geophones, leader wire, cables and connectors to receive and measure seismic reflections resulting from an energy source into data recording units, which store the seismic information for subsequent processing and analysis. In the marine environment, large ocean-going vessels tow long seismic cables known as streamers containing hydrophones that are used to detect pressure changes. Hydrophones transmit electrical impulses back to the vessels data recording unit where the seismic data is stored for subsequent processing and analysis. Our marine seismic products also help steer streamers while being towed and help recover streamers if they become disconnected from the vessel. Our seismic sensor, cable and connector products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. Revenue from these products results primarily from seismic contractors purchasing our products as components of new seismic data acquisition systems or to repair and replace components of seismic data acquisition systems already in use. Wireless Products We have developed multiple versions of a land-based wireless (or nodal) seismic data acquisition system. Rather than utilizing interconnecting cables as required by most traditional land data acquisition systems, each of our wireless stations operate as an independent data collection system, allowing for virtually unlimited channel configurations. As a result, our wireless systems require less maintenance, which we believe allows our customers to operate more effectively and efficiently because of its reduced environmental impact, lower weight and ease of operation. Each wireless station is available in a single-channel or three-channel configuration. Since its introduction in 2008 and through December 31, 2021, we have sold 486,000 wireless channels and we currently have 74,000 wireless channels in our rental fleet. We have also developed a marine-based wireless seismic data acquisition system called the OBX. Similar to our land-based wireless systems, the marine OBX system may be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations and does not require interconnecting cables between each station. Our deepwater versions of the OBX system can be deployed in depths of up to 3,450 meters. Through December 31, 2021, we have sold 10,000 OBX stations and we currently have 28,000 OBX stations in our rental fleet. Reservoir Products Seismic surveys repeated over selected time intervals show dynamic changes within a producing oil and gas reservoir, and operators can use these surveys to monitor the effects of oil and gas development and production. This type of reservoir monitoring requires special purpose or custom designed systems in which portability becomes less critical and functional reliability assumes greater importance. This reliability factor helps assure successful operations in inaccessible locations over a considerable period of time. Additionally, reservoirs located in deep water or harsh environments require special instrumentation and new techniques to maximize recovery. Reservoir monitoring also requires high-bandwidth, high-resolution seismic data for engineering project planning and reservoir management. Utilizing these reservoir monitoring tools, producers can enhance the recovery of oil and gas deposits over the life of a reservoir. We have developed permanently installed high-definition reservoir monitoring systems for land and ocean-bottom applications in producing oil and gas fields. Our electrical reservoir monitoring systems are currently installed on numerous offshore reservoirs in the North Sea and elsewhere. Through our acquisition of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology, we now offer both electrical and fiber optic reservoir monitoring systems. These high-definition seismic data acquisition systems have a flexible architecture 21 allowing them to be configured as a subsurface system for both land and marine reservoir-monitoring projects. The scalable architecture of these systems enables custom designed configuration for applications ranging from low-channel engineering and environmental-scale surveys requiring a minimum number of recording channels to high-channel surveys required to efficiently conduct permanent reservoir monitoring (PRM). The modular architecture of these products allows virtually unlimited channel expansion for these systems. In addition, we produce seismic borehole acquisition systems that employ a fiber optic augmented wireline capable of very high data transmission rates. These systems are used for several reservoir monitoring applications, including an application pioneered by us allowing operators and service companies to monitor and measure the results of hydraulic fracturing operations. We believe our reservoir characterization products make seismic acquisition a cost-effective and reliable process for reservoir monitoring. Our multi-component seismic product developments also include an omni-directional geophone for use in reservoir monitoring, a compact marine three-component or four-component gimbaled sensor and special-purpose connectors, connector arrays and cases. In September 2020, we received a request from a major oil and gas producer for a proposal to manufacture a large-scale seabed PRM system. Under the offered terms and conditions as initially presented, we decided not to provide a bid. In August 2021, we received a new request from the producer, however we have also decided not to bid under the new offered terms and conditions. We have also held discussions and received requests for information from other major oil and gas producers regarding PRM systems. We have not received any orders for a large-scale seabed PRM system since November 2012. Adjacent Markets Our Adjacent Markets businesses leverage upon existing manufacturing facilities and engineering capabilities utilized by our Oil and Gas Markets businesses. Many of the seismic products in our Oil and Gas Markets segment, with little or no modification, have direct application to other industries. Industrial Products Our industrial products include water meter products, remote shut-off water valves and IoT Platform, contract manufacturing products, offshore cables, and seismic sensors used for vibration monitoring and geotechnical applications such as mine safety applications and earthquake detection. Imaging Products Our imaging products include electronic pre-press products that employ direct thermal imaging and digital inkjet printing technologies targeted at the commercial graphics, industrial graphics, textile and flexographic printing industries. Emerging Markets Our Emerging Markets business segment consists entirely of our Quantum business. Quantums product line includes a proprietary detection system called SADAR , which detects, locates and tracks items of interest in real-time. Using the SADAR technology, Quantum designs and sells products used for border and perimeter security surveillance, cross-border tunneling detection and other products targeted at movement monitoring, intrusion detection and situational awareness. In addition to its commercial base of customers, Quantums customers primarily include various agencies of the U.S. government including the Department of Defense, Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security and other agencies. 22 Consolidated Results of Operations We report and evaluate financial information for three segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Oil and Gas Markets Traditional exploration product revenue $ 591 $ 997 Wireless exploration product revenue 8,727 11,737 Reservoir product revenue 336 29 Total revenue 9,654 12,763 Operating loss (4,170 ) (5,986 ) Adjacent Markets Industrial product revenue 5,013 4,407 Imaging product revenue 3,158 2,493 Total revenue 8,171 6,900 Operating income 1,208 1,260 Emerging Markets Revenue 137 8,797 Operating income (loss) (820 ) 6,479 Corporate Revenue 29 Operating loss (3,104 ) (3,212 ) Consolidated Totals Revenue 17,991 28,460 Operating loss (6,886 ) (1,459 ) Overview Although in an already depressed oil and gas industry, demand further decreased in February 2020 because of the oversupply of crude oil due to failed OPEC negotiations that led to a dramatic drop in crude oil prices when combined with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. These declines in the demand for oil and gas have caused oil and gas exploration and production companies to experience a significant reduction in cash flows, which have resulted in reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic data acquisition activities. Recently, crude oil prices have rebounded and held above February 2020 levels; however, a lag in time typically occurs between higher oil prices and greater demand for our Oil and Gas Markets segment products. We believe this lag is the result of exploration and production ("E&P") companies allocating their cash flow towards shareholder reward initiatives, such as stock buy-back programs and dividend payments, or in debt reduction. We believe this lag is a short-term trend that will continue until E&P companies decide to reinvest capital into exploration activities. As this lag persists, we expect the reduced levels of demand for our Oil and Gas Markets segment products and our rental marine wireless nodal products to continue. We also expect our land-based traditional and wireless products will continue to experience low levels of product demand until our customers consume their excess levels of underutilized equipment. In light of current market conditions, the inventory balances in our Oil and Gas Markets business segment at December 31, 2021 continued to exceed levels we consider appropriate for the current level of product demand. While we are aggressively working to reduce these legacy inventory balances, we are also adding new inventories for new wireless product developments and for other product demand in our Adjacent Markets segment. During periods of excessive inventory levels, our policy has been, and will continue to be, to record obsolescence expense as we experience reduced product demand and as our inventories continue to age. If difficult market conditions continue for the products in our Oil and Gas Markets segment, we expect to record additional inventory obsolescence expense in fiscal year 2022 and beyond until product demand and/or resulting inventory turnover return to acceptable levels. 23 Coronavirus (COVID-19) The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has spread across the globe and has negatively impacted worldwide economic activity, including the global demand for oil and natural gas, and continues to create challenges in our markets. While we continue to support our customers, there remain uncertainties regarding the duration and the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will ultimately have a negative impact on the demand for our products and services or on our supply chain. We continue to closely monitor the situation as information becomes readily available. As of the date of this filing, our operations have, for the most part, remained open globally and the impact of the effects of COVID-19 to our personnel and operations has been limited. We have experienced a reduction in demand for the rental of our OBX marine nodal products, which we believe is primarily the result of the pandemic. Our supply chain has become increasingly strained due to increased pricing for raw material and supplies coupled with longer than expected lead times. We believe we may be entering a period of recovery from the initial effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our Adjacent Markets business segment, but we continue to be cautious about the pandemics effect on our other business segments and our supply chain. As a result, we continually communicate with our suppliers and customers as information is available to best manage this difficult situation. Three months ended December 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2020 Consolidated revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was $18.0 million, a decrease of $10.5 million, or 36.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to a reduction in revenue from our Emerging Markets business segment related to our contract with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (the "CBP"). The majority of the revenue related to this contract was recognized during the three months ended December 31, 2020. The decrease in consolidated revenue was also caused by lower sales of OBX wireless products, partially offset by an increase in rental revenue attributable to higher utilization of our OBX rental fleet. Consolidated gross profit for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was $1.7 million, a decrease of $5.0 million, or 74.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to the reduction in revenue and related gross profit from our contract with the CBP discussed above, partially offset by higher gross profit attributable to the increase in rental revenue discussed above. Consolidated operating expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2021 were $8.6 million, an increase of $0.4 million, or 4.9%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was due to (i) a $1.2 million increase in research and development project costs, (ii) a $0.5 million increase in personnel costs, (iii) a $0.2 million increase in sales and marketing expenses and (iv) $0.2 million in incremental operating costs associated with our recent acquisition of Aquana. The increase was partially offset by a $1.7 million non-cash decrease in the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out consideration related to our Quantum and OptoSeis acquisitions. Consolidated other income for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was $0.2 million compared to $0.5 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in other income was primarily due to a decrease in interest income and foreign exchange gains. Segment Results of Operations Oil and Gas Markets Revenue Revenue from our Oil and Gas Markets products for the three months ended December 31, 2021 decreased $3.1 million, or 24.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Our product and rental revenue in this segment continues to be negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and a lack of capital spending by oil and gas exploration companies despite higher crude oil prices. The components of this decrease are as follows: Traditional Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2021, revenue from our traditional products decreased $0.4 million, or 40.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for the three months ended December 31, 2021 primarily reflects lower demand for our sensor products. Wireless Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2021, revenue from our wireless exploration products decreased $3.0 million, or 25.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to lower demand for the purchase of our OBX wireless 24 products. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in rental revenue attributable to higher utilization of our OBX rental fleet. Reservoir Product Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2021, revenue from our reservoir products was $0.3 million, compared to $29,000 from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to higher service revenue. Operating Loss Operating loss associated with our Oil and Gas Markets products for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was $4.2 million, a decrease of $1.8 million, or 30.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating loss for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to (i) higher wireless rental revenue and related gross profits from the rental of our OBX systems and (ii) a $1.7 million non-cash adjustment to the estimated fair value of contingent consideration related to our OptoSeis acquisition. The decrease in operating loss was partially offset by (i) lower wireless product revenue and related gross profits and (ii) higher research and development project costs. Adjacent Markets Revenue Revenue from our Adjacent Markets products for the three months ended December 31, 2021 increased $1.3 million, or 18.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. While we experienced an increase in the demand for our Adjacent Markets products and services during the three months ended December 31, 2021 despite the current COVID-19 pandemic, we cannot reasonably determine if this marks the beginning of a lasting recovery from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic for this operating segment. As a result, we are unable to determine the lasting effect the COVID-19 pandemic will have on the future demand for our Adjacent Markets products and services. The components of this increase are as follows: Industrial Product Revenue and Services For the three months ended December 31, 2021 revenue from our industrial products increased $0.6 million, or 13.8% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to higher demand for our water meter products and industrial sensor products. Imaging Product Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2021, revenue from our imaging products increased $0.7 million, or 26.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to higher demand for our equipment products and consumable film products. Operating Income The operating income from our Adjacent Markets products for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was $1.2 million, a decrease of $43,000, or 4.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating income for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, caused by higher research and development expense and incremental operating costs attributable to our acquisition of Aquana. The decrease was offset by an increase in both industrial and imaging product revenue and related gross profits. Emerging Markets Revenue Revenue from our Emerging Markets products for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was $0.1 million, compared to $8.8 million from the corresponding period in the prior fiscal year. The decrease in revenue was primarily attributable to revenue recognized on our contract with the CBP during the first quarter of the prior fiscal year. We were awarded this contract during fiscal year 2020 to provide a technology solution to the Department of Homeland Security. The majority of the revenue related to this contract was recognized in fiscal year 2021. As of December 31, 2021, unrecognized revenue related to this contract was approximately $0.1 million, which is expected to be recognized during fiscal year 2022. We are optimistic that a second contract from the CBP will be awarded to us before the end of fiscal year 2022. On January 20, 2021, President Biden ordered a pause on construction of the wall at the U.S. Mexico border to assess the legality of the funding, contracting methods, as well as the consequences of stopping the construction. It remains uncertain at this time whether the executive order will result in a temporary halt or permanent cessation of the construction. The Biden administration may implement new or different policies or take further executive action regarding border security that could change the demand for our perimeter and security products. 25 Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) from our Emerging Markets products for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was $(0.8) million, compared to operating income of $6.5 million from the corresponding period in the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating income (loss) for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to the revenue and related gross profit recognized on our contract with the CBP in the first quarter of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was partially offset by a non-cash adjustment of $0.6 million related to a decrease in the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out consideration related to the Quantum acquisition. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2021, we had approximately $14.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. For the three months ended December 31 2021, we used $7.3 million of cash from operating activities. Our net loss of $6.8 million was offset by net non-cash charges of $3.9 million resulting from deferred income taxes, depreciation, amortization, accretion, inventory obsolescence, stock-based compensation, bad debt expense and changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration. Other uses of cash in our operations included (i) the removal of $2.6 million gross profit from the sale of used rental equipment as it is included in investing activities, (ii) a $2.6 million decrease in accounts payable due to the timing of payments to suppliers and (iii) a $1.0 million decrease in other liabilities due to a decrease in customer deposits on rental equipment. Offsetting these uses of cash was a $1.5 million decrease in trade accounts and notes receivable primarily due to the timing of collections from customers. For the three months ended December 31, 2021, we generated cash of $1.9 million in investing activities. Sources of cash included (i) net proceeds of $1.8 million for the sale of short-term investments and (ii) proceeds of $1.0 million from the sale of used rental equipment. Offsetting these sources of were (i) $0.1 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment and (ii) $0.8 million for additions to our equipment rental fleet. We expect our cash investments in property, plant and equipment during fiscal year 2022 to be approximately $2 million. We do not anticipate cash investments into our rental fleet to be significant for the remainder of of fiscal year 2022. Our capital expenditures are expected to be funded from our cash on hand, internal cash flows, cash flows from our rental contracts or, if necessary, borrowings under a potential new credit agreement. For the three months ended December 31, 2021, we used $1.5 million from financing activities. Uses of cash included (i) $0.8 million earn-out payments to the former shareholders of Quantum and (ii) $0.7 million for the purchase of treasury stock pursuant to a stock buy-back program authorized by our board of directors. The stock buy-back program authorized us to repurchase up to $7.5 million of our common stock in open market transactions. The program was completed in November 2021. Our available cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $14.8 million at December 31, 2021, which included $4.5 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. The Tax Cut and Job Act ("2017 Tax Act") creates new taxes on certain foreign earnings and also requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on undistributed earnings of their foreign subsidiaries which were previously tax deferred. We have determined that we are not required to pay any transition tax on the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries since we had no accumulated foreign earnings on a consolidated basis. In October 2021, Frost Bank notified us that they will not be extending our credit agreement upon its expiration in April 2022, and in November 2021 we elected to cancel the agreement. We are currently in negotiations with multiple lenders for a new credit facility arrangement; however, we may not be successful in obtaining a credit facility on terms that are favorable to us. The lack of a credit facility could negatively impact our liquidity and could have a material adverse impact on our future operations, financial condition, growth, and other aspects of our business. However, we currently believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to finance any future operating losses and planned capital expenditures through the next twelve months. Our available cash and cash equivalent and short-term investments decreased $8.8 million during the three months ended December 31, 2021, however we collected $4.4 million in outstanding trade accounts and financing receivables from two major customers in January 2022. In the absence of future profitable results of operations, we may need to rely on other sources of liquidity to fund our future operations, including executed rental contracts, available borrowings under a potential new credit facility arrangement, if any, leveraging or sales of real estate assets, sales of rental assets and other liquidity sources which may be available to us. We do not have any obligations which meet the definition of an off-balance sheet arrangement and which have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial statements or the items contained therein that are material to investors. 26 Contractual Obligations Contingent Consideration We recorded an initial contingent earn-out liability of $7.7 million in connection with our July 2018 acquisition of Quantum. Subsequent to the acquisition, we reduced the estimated contingent earn-out liability to $0.2 million as of December 31, 2021 as a result of $2.3 million of earn-out payments made through December 2021 and $5.4 million of reductions in the value of expected future earn-out payments. Contingent payments, if any, may be paid in the form of cash or Company stock and will be derived from eligible revenue generated during the four-year post-acquisition period ending in July 2022. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.5 million. We recorded an initial contingent earn-out liability of $4.3 million in connection with our November 2018 acquisition of all the intellectual property and related assets of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology. Subsequent to the acquisition, we decreased the estimated contingent earn-out liability to $2.5 million as December 31, 2021 as a result of a $1.8 million net decrease in the value of the expected earn-out payments. Contingent cash payments, if any, will be derived from eligible revenue generated during a five-and-a-half year post-acquisition earn-out period ending in May 2024. In order for revenue to be considered eligible, sales contracts must be entered into during the first four years of the earn-out period ending in November 2022. No payments have been made to date related to the continent earn-out liability. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.2 million. Contingent Compensation Costs In connection with the acquisition of Aquana in July 2021, we are subject to additional contingent cash payments to the former members of Aquana over a six-year earn-out period. The contingent payments, if any, will be derived from certain eligible revenue generated during the earn-out period from products and services sold by Aquana. There is no maximum limit to the contingent cash payments that could be made. The merger agreement with Aquana requires the continued employment of a certain key employee and former member of Aquana for the first four years of the six year earn-out period in order for any of Aquanas former members to be eligible to any earn-out payments. In accordance with ASC 805, Business Combination s, due to the continued employment requirement, no liability has been recorded for the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out payments for this transaction. Earn-outs achieved, if any, will be recorded as compensation expense when incurred. We review and assess the fair value of our contingent earn-out liabilities on a quarterly basis. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information on our contractual contingencies. Critical Accounting Estimates During the three months ended December 31, 2021, there has been no material change to our critical accounting estimates discussed in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitati ve Disclosures about Market Risk We are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and are not required to provide the information under this item, in accordance with Item 305(e) of Regulation S-K. 27 Item 4. Control s and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure