Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The following equity plan information is provided as of September 30, 2020: Equity Compensation Plan Information Plan Category Number of Securities to be Issued upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights (a) Weighted-average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights (b) Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in Column (a)) (c) (In shares) (In dollars per share) (In shares) Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Security Holders (1) 309,357 17.66 (2) 370,110 Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security Holders Total 309,357 17.66 (2) 370,110 19 (1) The number of securities shown in column (c) represents number of securities remaining available for issuance under the Companys 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan (the 2014 Plan), which was approved by the Board and shareholders in February 2014. The 2014 Plan allows for the issuance of restricted stock awards, performance stock awards, performance stock unit awards, restricted stock unit awards (the foregoing, Full Value Awards), stock options and stock appreciation rights. For purposes of calculating the number of securities remaining under the 2014 Plan in column (c), Full Value Awards are counted as 1.5 shares for each share awarded. The number of securities shown in column (a) of the table above represents 91,100 stock options and 218,257 restricted stock unit awards outstanding under the 2014 Plan. (2) The calculation of the weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights excludes restricted stock unit awards. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities and Use of Proceeds None. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Not Required. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including under the heading Risk Factors. The discussion of our financial condition and results of operations includes various forward-looking statements about our markets, the demand for our products and services and our future plans and results. These statements are based on assumptions that we consider to be reasonable, but that could prove to be incorrect. For more information regarding our assumptions, you should refer to the section entitled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Assumptions below. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Assumptions This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein, if any, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the results and success of our transactions with Quantum and the OptoSeis technology, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, potential tenders for PRM systems, future demand for OBX systems, the completion of new orders for our channels of our GCL system, the fulfillment of customer payment obligations, the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, the Companys ability to manage changes and the continued health or availability of management personnel, volatility and development, market position, financial results and the provision of accounting reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our current judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors, as well as cautionary language in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Such examples include, but are not limited to, the failure of the Quantum or OptoSeis technology transactions to yield positive operating results, decreases in commodity price levels, which could reduce demand for our products, the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance (despite substantial investment by us) our sensitivity to short term backlog, delayed or cancelled customer orders, product obsolescence resulting from poor industry conditions or new technologies, bad debt write-offs associated with customer accounts, lack of further orders for our OBX systems, failure of our Quantum products to be adopted by the border and perimeter security market, infringement or failure to protect intellectual property. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary 20 materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Background We design and manufacture seismic instruments and equipment and primarily market these products to the oil and gas industry to locate, characterize and monitor hydrocarbon producing reservoirs. We also market our seismic products to other industries for vibration monitoring, border and perimeter security and various geotechnical applications. We design and manufacture other products of a non-seismic nature, including water meter products, imaging equipment, offshore cables and provide contract manufacturing services. See the information under the heading Business in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Consolidated Results of Operations As we have reported in the past, our revenue and operating profits have varied significantly from quarter-to-quarter, and even year-to-year, and are expected to continue that trend in the future, especially when our quarterly or annual financial results are impacted by the presence or absence of relatively large, but somewhat erratic, sales of our oil and gas PRM systems and/or wireless seismic data acquisition systems for land and marine applications. Our revenue and results of operations have not been materially impacted by inflation or changing prices in the past two fiscal years. We report and evaluate financial information for three segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2020 2019 Oil and Gas Markets Traditional exploration product revenue $ 6,653 $ 9,504 Wireless exploration product revenue 54,072 52,770 Reservoir product revenue 936 2,692 Total revenue 61,661 64,966 Operating income (loss) (2,139 ) 3,095 Adjacent Markets Industrial product revenue 15,622 18,324 Imaging product revenue 9,818 11,832 Total revenue 25,440 30,156 Operating income 4,017 6,234 Emerging Markets Revenue 734 159 Operating loss (6,064 ) (2,306 ) Corporate Revenue 528 Operating loss (13,853 ) (5,990 ) Consolidated Totals Revenue 87,835 95,809 Operating income (loss) (18,039 ) 1,033 Overview In 2014, our Oil and Gas Markets segment experienced a softening in the demand for its traditional exploration products, particularly in North America, as capital budgets for oil and gas producers were trending away from exploration-focused activities toward production and exploitation activities. During this period oil production in North Americas unconventional shale reservoirs increased, as did oil production from other non-OPEC countries, resulting in an oversupply of crude oil in the world market and a resulting drop in energy prices. Early in 2020, decreased demand again caused by the oversupply of crude oil due to failed OPEC negotiations and, when combined with the impact of the COVID19 pandemic, led to a dramatic drop in crude oil prices which have subsequently recovered to some extent. To date the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a global drop in demand for oil and gas. These declines in the demand for oil and gas have caused oil and gas exploration and production companies to experience a significant reduction in cash flows, which have resulted in and will likely continue to result in reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic data acquisition activities. Our Oil and Gas Markets segment has in recent years experienced strong demand for the rental of our marine wireless nodal products; however, this demand could 21 significantly diminish during fiscal year 2021 or beyond as a result of the significant uncertainty in the outlook for oil and gas exploration. Demand for new land-based seismic equipment in recent fiscal years has remained restrained due to capital limitations affecting many of our customers, along with their excess levels of underutilized equipment. As a result, revenue from the sale and rental of our land-based traditional and wireless products has remained low due to the reduced investment in exploration-focused seismic activities. We expect these challenging industry conditions will result in revenue from our traditional and land-based wireless products to remain below historical norms. In light of current market conditions, the inventory balances in our Oil and Gas Markets business segment at September 30, 2020 continued to exceed levels we consider appropriate for the current level of product demand. While we are aggressively working to reduce these legacy inventory balances, we are also adding new inventories for new wireless product developments and for other product demand in our Adjacent Markets segment. During periods of excessive inventory levels, our policy has been, and will continue to be, to record obsolescence expense as we experience reduced product demand and as our inventories continue to age. If difficult market conditions continue for the products in our Oil and Gas Markets segment, we expect to record additional inventory obsolescence expense in fiscal year 2021 and beyond until product demand and/or resulting inventory turnover return to acceptable levels. Coronavirus (COVID-19) In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global pandemic and recommended containment and mitigation measures worldwide. The spread of COVID-19 has resulted in most governments issuing restrictive orders, including shelter in place orders around the globe to assist in mitigating the spread of the virus. While we continue to support our customers, there remain uncertainties regarding the duration and the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will ultimately have a negative impact on the demand for our products and services or on our supply chain. We continue to closely monitor the situation as information becomes readily available. As of the date of this filing, our operations have, for the most part, remained open globally and the impact of the effects of COVID-19 to our personnel and operations has been limited. We have experienced lower than expected sales in our Adjacent Markets segment which we believe are primarily the result of the pandemic. We have also experienced a reduction in demand for certain products, cancellation of rental contracts and difficulty with field employees and salespeople traveling domestically and abroad to conduct our business. The current low oil and gas price environment may be intensified and prolonged by the COVID-19 pandemic and is increasing the risk and financial stress placed on our customers. We cannot reasonably estimate the length or severity of this pandemic, or the extent to which COVID-19 will affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in fiscal year 2021 and beyond. Cost Reduction Initiative In July 2020, we initiated a program to reduce operating and manufacturing expenses in light of decreased demand for products in our Oil and Gas Markets and Adjacent Markets segments. The program is expected to produce approximately $2.0 million of annualized cash savings. The cost reductions were primarily realized through a reduction of employees from our workforce. In connection with the workforce reductions, we incurred $0.9 million of termination costs in our fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. The termination costs were recorded to both cost of revenue and operating expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. There are no outstanding liabilities related to this program as of September 30, 2020. Fiscal Year 2020 Compared to Fiscal Year 2019 Consolidated revenue for fiscal year 2020 was $87.8 million, a decrease of $8.0 million, or 8.3%, from fiscal year 2019. While we experienced reduced demand for most of our product categories due to the factors cited above, the decrease was primarily caused by an $8.0 million charge to (or reduction of) revenue related to the impairment of an operating lease receivable resulting from the rental of our marine seismic equipment. Consolidated gross profit for fiscal year 2020 was $23.4 million, a decrease of $8.0 million, or 25.4%, from fiscal year 2019. The decrease in gross profit was also primarily caused by the $8.0 million charge to (or reduction of) revenue related to the impairment of an operating lease receivable resulting from the rental of our marine seismic equipment. Consolidated operating expenses for fiscal year 2020 were $41.5 million, an increase of $4.0 million, or 10.8%, from fiscal year 2019. The increase in operating costs were primarily due to (i) a $3.2 million net non-cash increase in the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out consideration related to our Quantum and OptoSeis acquisitions, (ii) $0.9 in personnel related termination costs associated with our workforce reduction, (iii) $0.4 million of incremental research and development costs associated with our acquisition of the OptoSeis business in November 2018 and (iv) a $0.7 million goodwill impairment charge. These increases in operating expenses were partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in bad debt expense. 22 In August 2019, we sold our real property located at 7334 N. Gessner in Houston, Texas which generated a $7.0 million gain on disposal of property in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. The buyer occupied the property as a tenant under a long-term lease. The property was not strategic to our ongoing operations. Consolidated other income for fiscal year 2020 was $1.4 million compared to $1.2 million from fiscal year 2019. The increase was primarily caused by an increase in foreign exchange gains, and was partially offset by a decrease in interest income. Consolidated income tax expense for fiscal year 2020 and 2019 was $2.6 million and $2.4 million, respectively. This increase in income tax expense was primarily the result of an increase in rental revenue earned in foreign jurisdictions requiring tax withholding. We are currently unable to record any tax benefits from the tax losses we incur in the U.S., Canada and Russian Federation due to the uncertainty surrounding our ability to utilize such losses in the future to offset taxable income. Segment Results of Operations Oil and Gas Markets Fiscal Year 2020 Compared to Fiscal Year 2019 Revenue Revenue from our Oil and Gas Markets products for fiscal year 2020 decreased $3.3 million, or 5.1%, from fiscal year 2019. The components of these decreases included the following: Traditional Exploration Product Revenue Revenue from our traditional products decreased $2.9 million, or 30.0%, from the prior fiscal year. The decrease reflects lower demand for our sensor products and a decrease in customer product repair and support service revenue. Wireless Exploration Product Revenue Revenue from our wireless exploration products increased $1.3 million, or 2.5%, from the prior fiscal year. Excluding an $8.0 million charge to (or reduction of) revenue related to the impairment of an operating lease receivable, our wireless exploration product revenue increased by $9.3 million, or 17.6%. The revenue increase primarily resulted from higher rental demand for our OBX systems. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in the recognition of revenue from an international seismic marine customer and lower GSX product revenue. Reservoir Product Revenue Revenue from our reservoir products decreased $1.8 million, or 65.2%, from the prior fiscal year. The decrease for both periods was primarily due to a decrease in sales of our borehole products and lower service revenue. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, we partially financed a $12.5 million product sale by entering into a $10.0 million promissory note with a customer. The promissory note is for a three-year term with monthly principal and interest payments of $0.3 million. Due to the financial condition of the customer, we have concerns over the probable collectability of the promissory note. As a result, we did not recognize any revenue or cost of revenue on the product sale. Through September 30, 2020 we have received payments from the customer totaling $4.6 million (exclusive of interest) related to the sale, which are reflected on our accompanying consolidated balance sheet as non-current deferred revenue. Management does not intend to recognize the revenue and cost of revenue from the sale until it becomes probable that the customer will satisfy its financial obligation under the promissory note. 23 Operating Income ( L oss) Operating income (loss) from our Oil and Gas Markets products for fiscal year 2020 was $(2.1) million, compared to $3.1 million from the prior fiscal year. The decrease in our operating income was primarily the result of an $8.0 million charge related to the impairment of an operating lease receivable. The decrease was also attributable to $0.7 million in termination costs related to the Companys fourth quarter fiscal year 2020 workforce reduction and a $0.7 million goodwill impairment charge. The decrease in operating income was partially offset by an increase in gross profit attributable higher rental revenue and a $0.7 million decrease in non-cash charges related to changes in the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out consideration related to our OptoSeis acquisition. Adjacent Markets Fiscal Year 2020 Compared to Fiscal Year 2019 Revenue Revenue from our Adjacent Markets products for fiscal year 2020 decreased $4.7 million, or 15.6%, from the prior fiscal year. The components of this decrease included the following: Industrial Product Revenue and Services Revenue from our industrial products decreased $2.7 million, or 14.7%, from the prior fiscal year. The decrease was due to lower demand for our industrial sensor and water meter products and contract manufacturing services as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We cannot reasonably estimate the impact the COVID-19 will have on the future demand for our industrial products and services. Imaging Product Revenue Revenue from our imaging products decreased $2.0 million, or 17.0%, from the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to a decline in sales of our film products as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The decrease was also attributable to unforeseen delays in the production of certain imaging equipment. We cannot reasonably estimate the impact COVID-19 will have on the future demand for our imaging products. Operating Income Operating income from our Adjacent Markets products for fiscal year 2020 was $4.0 million, a decrease of $2.2 million, or 35.6%, from the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due a decrease in gross profit caused by the decline in industrial and imaging product revenue. Emerging Markets Fiscal Year 2020 Compared to Fiscal Year 2019 Revenue On July 27, 2018, we entered the border and perimeter security market through our acquisition of Quantum. In connection with our Quantum acquisition, we established the Emerging Markets business segment, which currently includes only Quantum. Revenue from our Emerging Markets products for fiscal year 2020 was $0.7 million, compared to $0.2 million from the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue was primarily attributable to (i) the sale of border and perimeter security products to a commercial customer and (ii) site preparation and engineering related to a U.S. Customs and Border Protection U.S. Border Patrol contract. In April 2020, Quantum was awarded a $10 million contract with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection U.S. Border Patrol to provide a technology solution to the Department of Homeland Security. The Company expects most of the revenue from this contract will be recognized during the first six months of fiscal year 2021. Operating Loss Operating loss from our Emerging Markets products for fiscal year 2020 was $6.1 million, an increase of $3.8 million from the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to non-cash charges of $1.0 million in fiscal year 2020 for changes in the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out consideration related to our Quantum acquisition, compared to $(2.9) million of non-cash credits in the prior year. During fiscal year 2020, Quantum also experienced an increase in product development costs which were offset by an increase in gross profits attributable to its higher revenue. Quantums operating expenses for each of fiscal years 2020 and 2019 included intangible asset amortization expenses of $1.2 million. Since its acquisition in July 2018, Quantum has primarily focused on product development activities, and the marketing of its technologies to government agencies and other end users. 24 Liquidity and Capital Resources Fiscal Year 2020 At September 30, 2020, we had approximately $32.7 million in cash and cash equivalents. For fiscal year 2020, we generated $18.1 million of cash from operating activities. Our net loss of $19.2 million was offset by net non-cash charges of $40.7 million resulting from deferred income taxes, depreciation, amortization, inventory obsolescence, goodwill impairment, stock-based compensation, bad debt expense, change in estimate of collectability of rental revenue and changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration. Other sources of cash included (i) a $5.2 million increase in deferred revenue and other liabilities primarily due to the deferral of revenue on a significant product sale occurring in our second fiscal quarter and partially offset by a decrease in customer deposits and (ii) a $2.5 million decrease in trade and other receivables resulting from the timing of collections from customers. Offsetting these sources of cash were (i) a $2.5 million decrease in accounts payable resulting from the timing of payments to our suppliers, (ii) an $7.8 million increase in deferred cost of revenue and other assets primarily due to the deferral of cost on a product sale and an increase in the prepayment of certain expenses and (iii) the removal of a $0.7 million gross profit from the sale of used rental equipment since such gross profit is reflected in the proceeds from the sale of used rental equipment under investing activities. For fiscal year 2020, we used cash of $4.1 million in investing activities. Uses of cash included (i) a $5.5 million investment in our rental equipment primarily to expand our OBX rental fleet and (ii) $2.9 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment. These uses of cash were partially offset by (i) $4.1 million of proceeds from the sale of rental equipment and (ii) $0.2 million of proceeds from the sale of equipment. Fiscal year 2021 cash investments in property, plant and equipment could be approximately $5 million. Fiscal year 2021 cash investments into our rental fleet will primarily be dependent on demand for our OBX marine rental equipment. Our capital expenditures are expected to be funded from our cash on hand, internal cash flows, cash flows from our rental contracts or, if necessary, from borrowings under our credit agreement. For fiscal year 2020 we used $0.1 million from financing activities for the payment of contingent consideration related to our acquisition of Quantum in 2018. Since 2014, the oil and gas industry has experienced a sustained downturn due to low oil and gas prices. Recently, the unprecedented sharp decline in crude oil prices since February 2020 has further impacted the overall condition of the oil and gas industry, stifling budgets targeted at the oil and gas exploration industry, including the seismic industry. Prior to recent downturn we saw some signs of increased seismic activity in certain areas around the world; however, we expect the need for new seismic equipment to remain restrained due to current industry conditions, capital limitations affecting many of our customers and excessive on-hand quantities of under-utilized customer-owned seismic equipment. Further, we expect product sales of our Oil and Gas Markets productsspecifically our legacy land-based traditional and wireless productsto remain low until the oil and gas industry begins to show signs of recovery and exploration-focused seismic activities increase. However, oil and gas pricing and the resultant economic conditions may not recover meaningfully in the near term, and we expect these challenging industry conditions facing our land-based traditional and legacy wireless products will continue in fiscal year 2021. On July 13, 2020, we received an interest in a senior secured bond from an international seismic marine customer. Our interest in the bond, which has a face value of $13.0 million, was received in exchange for $13.0 million of unpaid invoices and late fees owed by the customer. The bond is secured by a third in line lien on the assets owned by the customer and has an 8% interest rate with bi-annual interest and possible principal payments based on excess available cash flow. Interest payments can be made either in cash or in-kind payments in the form of additional debt security. In-kind interest payments require an 8.8% interest rate. The bond matures July 13, 2022. The bond is listed on the Oslo Alternative Bond Market; however, the actual marketability is unknown at this time. Based on the distressed financial condition of the customer, we believe the fair value of the bond is nominal and we have not recorded a carrying amount for this bond at September 30, 2020. Our available cash and cash equivalents totaled $32.7 million at September 30, 2020, which included $5.8 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. The 2017 Tax Act creates new taxes on certain foreign earnings and also requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on undistributed earnings of their foreign subsidiaries which were previously tax deferred. We have determined that we are not required to pay any transition tax on the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries since we had no accumulated foreign earnings on a consolidated basis. Our credit agreement allows for borrowings of up to $30.0 million with such amounts available for borrowing determined by a borrowing base. In November 2019, we amended the credit agreement to (i) extend the maturity date from April 2020 to April 2022, (ii) increase the unencumbered liquid assets covenant threshold from $5 million to $10 million commencing with the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2020 and for each fiscal quarter thereafter, (iii) increase the tangible net worth requirement from $140 million to $145 million commencing with the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2020 and for each fiscal quarter thereafter and (iv) remove the requirement that we obtain the consent of Frost Bank prior to paying dividends or repurchasing stock so long as we are in compliance with the covenants of the credit agreement. 25 At September 30, 2020, we had no outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement and our borrowing availability under the credit facility pursuant to the credit agreement, based on the borrowing base calculation as of September 30, 2020, was $ 17.7 million. At September 30, 2020, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement. We currently do not anticipate the need to borrow under the credit agreement; however, we can make no assurance that we will not do so. In the absence of future profitable results of operations, we may need to rely on other sources of liquidity to fund our future operations, including executed rental contracts, available borrowings under our credit agreement through its expiration in April 2022, leveraging or sale of real estate assets, sales of rental assets and other liquidity sources which may be available to us. However, currently we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to finance any future operating losses and planned capital expenditures through the next twelve months. Fiscal Year 2019 At September 30, 2019, we had approximately $18.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. For fiscal year 2019, we generated $5.6 million of cash from operating activities. Our net loss of $0.1 million included net non-cash charges of $24.6 million resulting from deferred income taxes, depreciation, amortization, accretion, inventory obsolescence, stock-based compensation, bad debt expense and changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration. These net non-cash charges were partially offset by (i) a $9.2 million increase in trade accounts and financing receivables resulting from the increase in revenue and delays in collecting funds owed from a rental customer, (ii) a $1.9 million increase in inventories for the production of recently introduced land-based wireless seismic products, (iii) the removal of a $7.1 million gain from the sale of real property and equipment since such gains are reflected in the proceeds from the sale of property and equipment under investing activities and (iv) a $1.0 decrease in deferred revenue due to the revenue recognition of customer deposits on rental contracts. For fiscal year 2019, we generated cash of $1.6 million from investing activities. Sources of cash included (i) $25.6 million of proceeds from the sale of short-term investments, (ii) $8.3 million of proceeds from the sale of a real property (iii) $4.9 million of proceeds from the sale of rental equipment and (iv) $0.5 million of proceeds, net of payments, from a property-related insurance claim. These sources of cash were partially offset by (i) $34.1 million investment in our rental equipment primarily to expand our OBX rental fleet, (ii) $1.9 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment and (iii) $1.8 million for the acquisition of the intellectual property and related assets of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology business. For fiscal year 2019, we generated cash proceeds of $0.2 million from financing activities from the exercise of stock options by our employees. We had no long-term debt outstanding throughout the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any obligations which meet the definition of an off-balance sheet arrangement and which have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial statements or the items contained therein that are material to investors. Contractual Obligations Contingent Consideration We recorded an initial contingent earn-out liability of $7.7 million in connection with our July 2018 acquisition of Quantum. Subsequent to the acquisition, we reduced the estimated contingent earn-out liability to $5.8 million as of September 30, 2020. Contingent payments, if any, may be paid in the form of cash or Company stock and will be derived from eligible revenue generated during the four-year post-acquisition period ending in July 2022. The Company made cash earn-out payments of $0.1 million in fiscal year 2020. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.5 million. We recorded an initial contingent earn-out liability of $4.3 million in connection with our November 2018 acquisition of all the intellectual property and related assets of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology. Subsequent to the acquisition, we increased the estimated contingent earn-out liability to $5.2 million as of September 30, 2020. Contingent cash payments, if any, will be derived from eligible revenue generated during a five-and-a-half year post-acquisition earn-out period ending in May 2024. No payments have been made to date related to the earn-out. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.2 million. We will reassess the earn-out calculations related to this contingent consideration in future periods. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. We consider many factors in selecting appropriate operational and financial accounting policies and controls, and in developing the estimates and assumptions that are used in the preparation of these financial statements. We continually evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debt reserves, inventory obsolescence reserves, self-insurance reserves for medical 26 expenses, product warranty reserves, contingent consideration, stock-based compensation and deferred income tax assets. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other factors, including the impact from the current economic conditions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different conditions or assumptions. Our normal credit terms for trade receivables are 30 days. In certain situations, credit terms for trade receivables may be extended to 60 days or longer and such receivables generally do not require collateral. Additionally, we provide long-term financing in the form of promissory notes and sales-type leases when competitive conditions require such financing and, in such cases, we may require collateral. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our accounts and financing receivables, and allowances are recognized for potential credit losses. Our long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever an event or change in circumstances indicates the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. The impairment review, if necessary, includes a comparison of expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) to be generated by an asset group with the associated carrying value of the related assets. If the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the expected future cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying value of the asset group exceeds its fair value. Management makes judgments regarding the interpretation of tax laws that might be challenged upon an audit and cause changes to previous estimates of tax liability. In addition, we operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in these jurisdictions as well as by the Internal Revenue Service. In managements opinion, adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all open tax years. The potential outcomes of examinations are regularly assessed in determining the adequacy of the provision for income taxes and income tax liabilities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for reasonable and foreseeable outcomes related to uncertain tax matters. We record a write-down of our inventories when the cost basis of any manufactured product, including any estimated future costs to complete the manufacturing process, exceeds its net realizable value. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out method, except that our subsidiaries in the Russian Federation and the United Kingdom use an average cost method to value their inventories. We periodically review the composition of our inventories to determine if market demand, product modifications, technology changes, excessive quantities on-hand and other factors hinder our ability to recover our investment in such inventories. Managements assessment is based upon historical product demand, estimated future product demand and various other judgments and estimates. Inventory obsolescence reserves are recorded when such assessments reveal that portions or components of our inventory investment will not be realized in our operating activities. The value of our inventories not expected to be realized in cash, sold or consumed during our next operating cycle are classified as non-current assets in our consolidated balance sheets. We recognize revenue from product sales and services in accordance with ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . This standard applies to contracts for the sale of products and services and does not apply to contracts for the rental or lease of products. Under this standard, we recognize revenue when performance of contractual obligations are satisfied, generally when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Revenue from product sales is recognized when obligations under the terms of a contract are satisfied, control is transferred and collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. Transfer of control generally occurs with shipment or delivery, depending on the terms of the underlying contract. Our products are generally sold without any customer acceptance provisions, and our standard terms of sale do not allow customers to return products for credit. Most of our products do not require installation assistance or sophisticated instruction. We offer a standard product warranty, which obligates us to repair or replace our products having manufacturing defects. We maintain a reserve for future warranty costs based on historical experience or, in the absence of historical experience, management estimates. Revenue from engineering services is recognized as services are rendered over the duration of a project or as billed on a per hour basis. Field service revenue is recognized when services are rendered and is generally priced on a per day rate. We recognize rental revenue as earned over the rental period. Rentals of our equipment generally range from daily rentals to rental periods of up to six months or longer. We recognize rental revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 842, Leases . In the event collectability of lease payments is not probable at the lease commencement date, we recognize revenue when payments are received. We regularly evaluate the collectability of our lease receivables on a lease by lease basis. The evaluation primarily consists of reviewing past due account balances and other factors such as the credit quality of the customer, historical trends of the customer and current economic conditions. We suspend the recognition of rental revenue when the collectability of amounts due are no longer probable and record a direct write-off of the lease receivable to rental revenue. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 27 Managements Current Outlook and Assumptions As further discussed above, there remains uncertainties regarding the duration and to what extent the COVID-19 pandemic will ultimately impact the demand for our products and services or with our supply chain. Regarding our Oil and Gas Markets business segment, prices for a barrel of WTI crude oil declined from over $100 in July 2014 to approximately $26 in February 2016, and have recovered to approximately $40 today. With this substantial net decline in crude oil prices and the recent reduced global demand for oil and gas as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, oil and gas exploration and production companies experienced a significant reduction in cash flows resulting in sharp reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities including seismic data acquisition activities. While we have experienced strong marine nodal rental activity in recent years including fiscal year 2020, the need for new seismic equipment, particularly land-based equipment, remains restrained due to our customers (i) limited capital resources, (ii) lack of visibility into future demand for their seismic services and (iii) in some cases, under-utilized legacy equipment. Many of our land-based traditional seismic products can be damaged, destroyed or otherwise consumed during our customers field operations. We expect fiscal year 2021 demand for our land-based traditional seismic products may increase slightly over fiscal year 2020 levels. We believe our GCL, which is a new version of our land-based wireless data recorder, will be a market leader similar to our GSX wireless unit. While it is uncertain what revenue impact the GCL will have during fiscal year 2021 in light of the tepid market demand for oil and gas seismic services and equipment, we expect our fiscal year 2021 land-based wireless product revenue to moderately exceed the levels we achieved in fiscal year 2020. The vast majority of our oil and gas rental revenue in fiscal year 2020 was derived from short-term rentals of our OBX ocean-bottom recorder. We believe our OBX rental revenue may decrease substantially in fiscal year 2021 primarily due to the expiration of several rental contracts in fiscal year 2020 and indications from a customer considering the purchase of a substantial quantity of OBX units currently being rented, in addition to the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. Although we anticipate more rental contracts for our OBX equipment will be entered into in fiscal year 2021, we can make no assurance in this regard. We believe that fiscal year 2021 revenue from our oil and gas reservoir products, and principally our borehole tools and services, to increase slightly over fiscal year 2020 levels. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, we received a request from a major oil and gas producer to propose on the manufacture of a large-scale seabed PRM system. We are in the process of responding to this request and we believe the potential customer will grant the award in the second or third quarter of fiscal year 2021. If we are awarded the contract, revenue from this contract will most likely not be recognized until latter part of fiscal year 2021, if any; fiscal year 2022 and beyond. We expect fiscal year 2021 revenue from our Adjacent Markets products to increase over fiscal year 2020 levels. Demand for our adjacent markets products in fiscal year 2020 were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Although we cannot accurately determine the impact the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our fiscal year 2021 revenue, we are optimistic that demand for both our industrial, imaging products and contract manufacturing services will increase in fiscal year 2021. We expect fiscal year 2021 revenue from our Emerging Markets products to increase over fiscal year 2020 primarily as a result of the contract awarded to Quantum from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection U.S. Border Patrol to provide a technology solution to the Department of Homeland Security. The Company expects most of the revenue from this contract will be recognized during the first six months of fiscal year 2021.