ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This section of the report includes a number of forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are often identified by words like: believe, expect, estimate, anticipate, intend, project and similar expressions, or words which, by their nature, refer to future events. You should not place undue certainty on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this annual report. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or our predictions. Overview The following discussion is an overview of the important factors that management focuses on in evaluating our businesses, financial condition and operating performance and should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of any number of factors, including those set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and elsewhere in our other public filings. Factors that may cause actual results, our performance or achievements, or industry results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements include without limitation: 1. The companys lack of funds in new R&D, especially in clinical testing; 2. The companys lack of funds in new equipment and the utilization of the production process after CFDA approval; 3. The company may need to seek funding through such vehicles as convertible notes and warrants, private placements, and/or convertible debentures; 4. The company needs funding for marketing and network build-up; 5. The company plans to seek approval for clinical testing and marketing on a worldwide basis, including US FDA approval for testing and marketing in the United States of America, and there is no guaranty that we will obtain any such approval; 6. While the company currently holds two patents originating in China, the patents does not protect our intellectual property in the United States, and the company is unsure of the validity of the patent in other countries. However, specific trade secrets are involved in the manufacturing of our product to help protect our technologies, and reverse engineering is unlikely for our types of products and technologies. New patents are expected to be filed as result of our continuous research works for new and refined materials. Additionally, all machinery used to manufacture our products is protected by Chinese patents. The Company is subject to a number of risks similar to other companies in the medical device industry. These risks include rapid technological change, uncertainty of market acceptance of our products, uncertainty of regulatory approval, competition from substitute products from larger companies, the need to obtain additional financing, compliance with government regulations, protection of proprietary technology, product liability, and the dependence on key individuals. All written and oral forward-looking statements made in connection with this Form 10-K that are attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Given the uncertainties that surround such statements, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 12 Our Business We are engaged in the business of designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing of biomaterial internal fixation devices. We hold one medical device permit from the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) for our product - polymer orthopaedic internal fixation screws and two patents issued by the State Intellectual Property Office of the P.R.C. (SIPO). Our polyamide materials, their uses and manufacturing processes are protected by Patent No. ZL971190739. A new patent, No. ZL201410647464.1 titled Bone Fracture Plate Made of High Polymer Materials was granted to us in January 2018. Our polyamide materials are used in producing screws, binding wires, rods and related products. These products are used in a variety of applications including orthopedic trauma, sports related medical treatment, or cartilage injuries, and reconstructive dental procedures. At this time, our company is the sole patent holder and market permit holder of PA technologies in China, as well as the only company currently engaged in clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing for PA orthopaedic internal fixation devices in the PRC. Our products are made of a very unique material called PA6-P(MMA-CO-NVP)-HA (PA). Our PA products, such as screws, binding wires, rods, suture anchors and rib-pins consist of enhanced fibers and high molecular polymers which are designed to facilitate quick healing of complex fractures in many areas of the human skeletal system. Our products offer a number of significant advantages over existing metal implants and the first generation of degradable implants (i.e. PLLA) for patients, surgeons and other customers including: 1. A notably reduced need for a secondary surgery to remove implant due to post-operative complications, therefore avoiding unnecessary risk and expense on all patient care; 2. Enhancing the performance of the materials by manufacturing them to be easily fitted to each patient, forming an exact fit; 3. Improving the biological activity of materials. Clinical trial results have shown that PA implants promote a progressive shift of load to the new bone creating micro-motion and thereby avoiding bone atrophy due to stress shielding; 4. Reducing the chance of post-operative infection; 5. Stimulate bone tissues to facilitate effective biological integration, benefitting the regeneration of bone; 6. Ease of post-operative care i.e. no distortion during x-ray imaging; 7. Simple and cost-effective to manufacture. Our products are designed to replace the traditional internal fixation device made of stainless steel and titanium and overcome the limitations of previous generations of products such as PLA and PLLA. Our laboratory statistics show that our PA products have a higher mechanical strength, last longer in degradation ratio and are more evenly absorbed form outer layer inwards as compared with similar materials such as PLA and PLLA. Thus PA allows increased restoration time for bone healing and re-growth. The Companys polymer orthopaedic internal fixation screws received approval from the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) in April 2018. CFDA Application Process and Approval for Polymer Screws The Company first submitted its application for PA Screws to the CFDA in 2008. The application has been withheld by the CFDA pending additional clinical trial cases. This is due to the amended CFDA regulations, which unlike previous regulations require the applicant to specify the position on the body where the clinical trial is carried out. Our amended CFDA application has specified the ankle fracture as the body part of our clinical trial. This is because bones around this part carry most of the body weight. Due to the uniqueness of our material, there were no established CFDA Product Standards that we could follow during our application process for our PA Screws. To establish our own Product Standards, the Company had been carrying out extra tests. The Company submitted its Product Standards and supplementary reports to the CFDA in 2014. In December 2016, the Company received a notice from the CFDA requesting supplementary report as part of the review process. The Company completed the supplementary report and submitted it to the CFDA in June 2017. In April 2018, the Companys application for its PA Screws was approved by the CFDA in China (Medical Device Certification Number: 20183460133). 13 Clinical Trials on Other Products The Company has completed a total of 83 successful clinical human trial cases, including 71 cases on ankle fractures and 57 successful PA Binding Wire trial cases. We have been conducting human trials at the 6 state level hospitals recognized by CFDA for clinical trials in different cities throughout China; including Nanchang, Changsha, Luoyang, Nanning and Tianjin. The cities and provinces where our clinical trial hospitals are based will be the initial target regions on our marketing plan. These regions are both densely populated and have experienced high or above medium economic growth. The clinical trials for the Companys PA Screws have been completed with 100 percent success rate. Having gained CFDA approval for PA Screws, the Company is planning to start clinical trials on series of orthopaedic products the Company has developed using the same unique biomaterial. Government Regulation Medical implant devices/products manufactured or marketed by the Company in China are subject to extensive regulations by the CFDA. Pursuant to the related laws and acts, as amended, and the regulations promulgated there under (the CFDA Regulations), the CFDA regulates the clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution and promotion of medical devices. The CFDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement, or refund of the cost of any device manufactured or distributed by the Company. Under the CFDA Regulations, medical devices are classified into three classes (class I, II or III), the basis of the controls deemed necessary by the CFDA to reasonably assure their safety and efficacy. Under the CFDAs regulations, class I devices are subject to general controls (for example, labeling and adherence to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) requirements) and class II devices are subject to general and special controls. Generally, class III devices are those which must receive premarket approval by the CFDA to ensure their safety and efficacy (for example, life-sustaining, life-supporting and certain implantable devices, or new devices which have not been found substantially equivalent to legally marketed class I or class II devices). The Company is classified as a manufacturer of class III medical devices. Current CFDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. Before a new device can be introduced into the market in China, the manufacturer generally must obtain CFDA marketing clearance through clinical trials. Since the Company is classified as a manufacturer of Class III medical devices, the Company must carry out all clinical trials in pre-selected CFDA approved hospitals. Manufacturers of medical devices for marketing in China are required to adhere to GMP requirements. Enforcement of GMP requirements has increased significantly in the last several years and the CFDA has publicly stated that compliance will be more strictly scrutinized. From time to time the CFDA has made changes to the GMP and other requirements that increase the cost of compliance. Changes in existing laws or requirements or adoption of new laws or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will not incur significant costs to comply with applicable laws and requirements in the future or that applicable laws and requirements will not have a material adverse effect upon the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulations regarding the development, manufacturing and sale of the Companys products are subject to change. The Company cannot predict the impact, if any, that such changes might have on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Results of Operations The Results of Operations discussed in this section merely reflect the information and results of Masterise and Shenzhen Changhua for the years ended October 31, 2018 and 2017. Revenues The Company is in its development stage and does not have any revenue. The management team is continuously looking for fundraising possibilities for product improvement, machinery upgrades, facility expansions, continuous research and development, and sales and marketing preparation. 14 Our facility is located in Shenzhen, China, which is built to meet the GMP standards. Our facility covers about 865 square meters, which includes the combined facilities of offices, laboratories, and workshops. There is one production line for the PA Screw and another production line for the PA Binding Wire. The annual production capabilities of each production line are 100,000 pieces for PA Screw, and 240,000 packs for the PA Binding Wires. Both production lines, at their maximum production capacities are capable of generating approximately $30,000,000 in annual revenue. Estimate current production lines in full capacity Output Quantity (Max.) Price at ex-factory (US$) Total Turnover (US$) PA Screw 100,000 (piece) 180 18,000,000 PA Binding Wire 240,000 (pack) 50 12,000,000 Total: 30,000,000 The Company will market its products through a hybrid sales force comprised of a managed network of independent regional distributors/sales agents (80%) and direct sales representatives (20%) in China. There are two ways the company will generate revenue, 1) through our nationwide and regional distributors and 2) through our direct sales channels. Funding Needs The Company estimates that it will need to raise minimum $900,000 over the next 12 months to bring its current products to market, and begin earning revenues. This amount may increase if we decide to start clinical trials on new products. Once we start to market our PA Screw, our revenue will cover our expenditures. Otherwise, we will continue to rely on external investments and shareholders loans to meet our cash needs. While the Company has no outside sources of funding, the Companys shareholders have committed to advance the Company funds as needed. There is a Letter of Continuing Financial Support signed between the Company and one of its major shareholders, Titan Technology Development Ltd. Chinas Marketing Analysis and Sales Strategy We have established long term relationships with many hospitals and national distributors in China. Ms. Hui Wang, the Companys CEO, has over 25 years sales experience in medical distribution. She will be in charge of our sales programs. Professor LIU, Shangli, our chief medical advisor for Greater China, is one of the highest ranked orthopedic doctors in China as well as being highly renowned in the rest of the world. He will assist the Company in nationwide product promotion and joint projects with associated academic institutions and medical schools. During product development and clinical trial stages we developed close relationships with many major national hospitals. We expect these relationships to boost our revenue generation following CFDA final approval. In order to better serve our customers, including hospitals, distributors, patients and the general public, the Company will set up Regional Service Offices to provide technical support, product information, and customer aid service. Chinas market for PA devices depends on 3 major conditions: - Patients - Advanced technology level - Performance and price of the materials The demand for internal fixation medical devices has rapidly increased during the last decade. According to China Health Care Year Book 2013, the total revenue of Chinese orthopaedic hospitals in 2013 was US$1.28 billion with over 11.5 million patients. From 2009 to 2013, the market size of Chinas orthopaedic devices has grown from US$1.1 billion to US$1.92 billion, and it is estimated to reach US$4 billion in 2020. China has overtaken Japan as the second largest market in the world. The Chinese market size for trauma treatment implant devices such as our PA Screw and PA Wire was US$1.88 billion in 2013 and US$2.12 billion in 2014 with a growth rate of 12.7%, it is estimated to grow to US$3.02 billion in 2017 and reach US$3.17 billion in 2018 with a growth rate of 11.6%. (Source: Shenwan Hongyuan Securities research report). China has gradually entered the Old Age Society. It is expected that there will be 245 million people over 60 years of age by 2020, and, according to the survey of 50 years old, the incidence of osteoporosis is as high as 60%, accompanied by osteoporosis, fracture, bone necrosis, disability and other diseases, resulting in continued high demand of orthopaedic implant medical devices. (Source: The UN; Shenwan Hongyuan Securities research report). Other factors such as new and improved medical technology will continue to rapidly grow throughout hospitals in China, and material optimization and product pricing is expected to directly stimulate double digits market growth rate in the near future in China. 15 The Company has advantages and more opportunities over others competitors due to: - No other similar patent registrations in China. - We are the only company received market approval and permitted to perform PA clinical trials by the CFDA to the best of our knowledge. - We have a timing advantage over other companies in China, which would have to go through the preclinical testing for the CFDA permit on clinical trials. - Under new regulations by the CFDA, it will take at least 5-10 years for clinical trials of new materials. - Our patented material will enables us to rapidly diversify our product line according to market trend and demand. Number of Hospitals at the end of November 2018 Statistic and Census report by the National Health Commission of the Peoples Republic of China. Statistic and Census report by National Health Commission of the Peoples Republic of China (November 2018) November 2018 November 2017 Increase / (Decrease) Total No. of Hospitals 32,476 30,294 2,182 Public Hospital 12,072 12,181 (109 ) Private Hospital 20,404 18,113 2,291 Hospital Rating AAA 2,498 2,311 187 AA 8,806 8,285 521 A 10,477 9,632 845 In general, technological advancements and the marketing potential within Asia are the biggest factors in driving significant growth within the global orthopedic devices market. Another major factor that positively influences this market is the growing number of aging baby boomers with active lifestyles. This sector represents a large portion of the total population. Distribution Model Dealer/Distributor System: We collaborate with dealers to sell and distribute our products to various hospitals and reach the consumers, i.e. bone fracture victims. The company will assist dealers to promote products to famous orthopaedic hospitals By utilizing a distributor, ABMT will further benefit from promotional activities by having a second party help with common objectives, and at the same time, increase our sales audience through their contacts. Currently, we have established contacts with various national and district distributors, every distributor covers a minimum of 50 hospitals so our total coverage is 6,000 hospitals. We will provide ongoing after-sales service, technical supports and conventional meetings, etc., to help our distributors better promote our products. Direct Hospital Sales (DHS): Our Direct Hospital Sales (DHS) regions will include Guangdong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Xinjiang, Shanghai and Beijing at the beginning. We have already established close relationships with the 7 state-level hospitals where our clinical tests have been conducted at. These hospitals are located in one of the fastest growing areas of China, healthcare coverage for 20% of the Chinese population. These 7 State level hospitals are: 1. The First Affiliated Hospital of Hunan University of Traditional Chinese Medicine. 2. The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhongshan University. 3. The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi Traditional Chinese Medicine University. 4. The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi Medical University. 5. The Peoples Hospital of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. 6. The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangxi University of Traditional Chinese Medicine. 7. Luoyang Orthopaedic-Traumatological Hospital. Apart from assisting in our sales. These 7 hospitals will also be assisting ABMT in future clinical applications and trials. In addition, we will receive up-to-date information directly from physicians to develop new products better suited for current patient needs and hence, speed up product commercialization. Research and Development Research and development costs related to both present and future products are expensed as incurred. Total expenditure on research and development charged to general and administrative expenses for the years ended October 31, 2018 and 2017 was $56,512 and $48,053. We expect research and development expenses to grow as we continue to invest in basic research, clinical trials, product development and in our intellectual property. 16 Finance Costs As of October 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company owed $718,808 and $582,795 respectively to a stockholder Titan Technology Development Limited, which is unsecured and repayable on demand. Interest is charged at 7% per annum on the amount owed. As of October 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company owed $1,715,840 and $1,710,759 to Chi Fung Yu, $2,344,849 and $1,800,541 to Tie Jun Chen, $36,040 and $35,782 to Que Feng, $228,842 and $220,098 to Shenzhen Hygeian Medical Device Company, Limited., which are unsecured and repayable on demand. Interest is charged at 7% per annum on the amount owed. Total interest expenses on advances from a stockholder accrued for the year ended October 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017 are $42,884 and $37,379 for Titan Technology Development Limited. Total interest expenses on advances from following related parties accrued for the year ended October 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017 are $98,431 and $93,951 for Chi Fung Yu; $128,680 and $97,045 for Tie Jun Chen; $2,133 and $2,059 for Que Feng; $14,628 and $11,710 for Shenzhen Hygeian Medical Device Company. As of October 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017, the Company owed the following amounts respectively to three directors for advances made - $252,377 and $298,818 to Wang Hui; $20,930 and $22,602 to Chi Ming Yu; $567 and $0 to Kai Gui. These advances were made on an unsecured basis, repayable on demand and interest free. Imputed interest charged at 5% per annum on the amounts owed to the directors for the year ended October 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively is $13,815 and $15,623 for Wang Hui; $0 and $0 for Chi Ming Yu and Kai Gui. Income Tax ABMT was incorporated in the United States and has incurred net operating loss for income tax purposes for 2018 and 2017. ABMT has net operating loss carry forwards for income taxes amounting to approximately $2,082,118 and $1,915,159 as of October 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively which may be available to reduce future years taxable income. These carry forwards, will expire, if not utilized, commencing in 2029. Management believes that the realization of the benefits from these losses appears uncertain due to the Companys limited operating history and continuing losses. Accordingly, a full, deferred tax asset valuation allowance has been provided and no deferred tax asset valuation allowance has been provided and no deferred tax asset benefit has been recorded. The valuation allowance at October 31, 2018 and 2017 was $707,920 and $651,154 respectively. The net change in the valuation allowance for 2018 was an increase of $56,766. Masterise was incorporated in the BVI and under current law of the BVI, is not subject to tax on income. Shenzhen Changhua was incorporated in the PRC and is subject to PRC income tax which is computed according to the relevant laws and regulations in the PRC. The income tax rate has been 25%. No income tax expense has been provided by Shenzhen Changhua as it is waiting for CFDA approval and it has incurred losses. Net Loss As reflected in the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements, the Company has an accumulated deficit of $8,632,618 at October 31, 2018 that includes a net loss of $953,320 for the year ended October 31, 2018. We therefore do not have any revenue from inception to October 31, 2018 but have to incur operating expenses for the upkeep of the Company and the clinical trials. Liquidity and Capital Resources We had a working capital deficit of $5,721,907 at October 31, 2018 compared to a working capital deficit of $5,055,542 as of October 31, 2017. Our working capital deficit increased as a result of the fact that we are in clinical trial phase, the company has put all resources to complete the clinical trials. We do not have a CFDA permit to produce, market or sell in China. We had no revenues during the year and that our sole source of financing came in the form of a loan from our related parties and stockholders. Cash Flows Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $832,421 in the year ended October 31, 2018. This amount was attributable primarily to the net loss after adjustment for non-cash items, such as depreciation and imputed interest on advances from directors. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities We recorded $64,405 net cash used in investing activities in the year ended October 31, 2018. This amount reflected purchases of property and equipment, primarily for research and development to our facilities. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities in the year ended October 31, 2018 was $889,901, which represented advances from related parties. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements Our ability to continue as a going concern and support the commercialization of current products is dependent upon our ability to obtain additional financing in the near term. We anticipate that such funding will be in the form of equity financing from sales of our common stock. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient funding from the sale of our common stock to fund our business plan should we decide to proceed. We anticipate continuing to rely on advances from our related parties and stockholders in order to continue to fund our business operations 17 We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents at October 31, 2018, will be insufficient to meet our cash needs. The management is actively pursuing additional funding and strategic partners, which will enable the Company to implement our business plan, business strategy, to continue research and development, manufacturing and marketing our products, clinical trials or further development that may arise. Going Concern As reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company has an accumulated deficit of $8,632,618 as of October 31, 2018 that includes a net loss of $953,320 for the year ended October 31, 2018. The Companys total current liabilities exceed its total current assets by $5,721,907 and the Company used cash in operations of $832,421. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In view of the matters described above, recoverability of a major portion of the recorded asset amounts shown in the accompanying balance sheet is dependent upon continued operations of the Company, which in turn is dependent up the Companys ability to raise additional capital, obtain financing and succeed in its future operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Management has taken steps to revise its operating and financial requirements, which it believes are sufficient to provide the Company with the ability to continue as a going concern. The Company is now pursuing additional funding and potential merger or acquisition candidates, which would enhance stockholders investment. Management believes that the above actions will allow the Company to continue operations through the next fiscal year. As of October 31, 2018, loans from the Companys stockholder, two directors, three related parties and a non-related third party totaling $5,312,246 were provided to us for use as working capital. Management believes that such financing will allow us to continue operations through the next fiscal year. The Company is also actively pursuing a number of private placements funding which would ensure continued operations. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to our investors. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including but not limited to those related to income taxes and impairment of long-lived assets. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions and factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Based on our ongoing review, we plan to adjust to our judgments and estimates where facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results could differ from our estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require our managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. 1. Property and equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Expenditures for additions, major renewals and betterments are capitalized and expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis, less estimated residual value over the assets estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives of the assets are 5 years. 18 2. Long-lived assets In accordance with FASB Codification Topic 360 (ASC Topic 360), Accounting for the impairment or disposal of Long-Lived Assets, long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets held and used by the Company are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. For purposes of evaluating the recoverability of long-lived assets, the recoverability test is performed using undiscounted net cash flows related to the long-lived assets. The Company reviews long-lived assets to determine that carrying values are not impaired. Long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of the asset may not be recoverable. Impairment of the carrying value of long-lived assets would be indicated if the best estimate of future undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset grouping is less than its carrying value. If an impairment is indicated, any loss is measured as the difference between estimated fair value and carrying value and is recognized in operating income. For the year ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, the company has not recognized any impairment charges. 3. Fair value of financial instruments FASB Codification Topic 825(ASC Topic 825), Disclosure About Fair Value of Financial Instruments, requires certain disclosures regarding the fair value of financial instruments. The carrying amounts of other receivables and prepaid expenses, other payables and accrued expenses, due to a stockholder, directors and related parties approximate their fair values because of the short-term nature of the instruments. The management of the Company is of the opinion that the Company is not exposed to significant interest or credit risks arising from these financial statements. 4. Government grant Government grants are recognized when there is reasonable assurance that the Company complies with any conditions attached to them and the grants will be received. 5. Income taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under the FASB Codification Topic 740-10-25 (ASC 740-10-25). Under ASC 740-10-25, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Under ASC 740-10-25, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized as income in the period included the enactment date. 6. Research and Development Research and development costs related to both present and future products are expensed as incurred. 7. Foreign currency translation The financial statements of the Companys subsidiary denominated in currencies other than US $ are translated into US $ using the closing rate method. The balance sheet items are translated into US $ using the exchange rates at the respective balance sheet dates. The capital and various reserves are translated at historical exchange rates prevailing at the time of the transactions while income and expenses items are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. All exchange differences are recorded within equity. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Business Combination: Clarifying the Definition of a Business In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-1 Topic 805, Business Combinations: Clarifying the Definition of a Business. The amendments in this update provide a screen to determine when a set is not a business. The screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired (or disposed of) is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business. This screen reduces the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated. The amendments in this update affect all reporting entities that must determine whether they have acquired or sold a business. Public business entities should apply the amendments in this update to annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those periods. All other entities should apply the amendments to annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2017-1 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-4 Topic 350: Intangibles-Goodwill and Other: Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. The amendments in this update eliminate step two of the goodwill impairment test and specifies that goodwill impairment should be measured by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. Additionally, the amount of goodwill allocated to each reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount of net assets should be disclosed. The amendments in this update are effective for annual or interim goodwill impairment tests performed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019; early adoption is permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2017-4 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. Share-based Compensation In May 2017, the FASB issued guidance on changes to terms and conditions of share-based payment awards. The amendment provides guidance about which changes to terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. The guidance is effective for the fiscal year beginning on January 1, 2018, including interim periods within that year. In June 2018, the scope of Topic 718 has been expanded to include sharebased payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. An entity should apply the requirements of Topic 718 to nonemployee awards except for specific guidance on inputs to an option pricing model and the attribution of cost (that is, the period of time over which share-based payment awards vest and the pattern of cost recognition over that period). The amendments specify that Topic 718 applies to all share-based payment transactions in which a grantor acquires goods or services to be used or consumed in a grantors own operations by issuing share-based payment awards. The amendments also clarify that Topic 718 does not apply to share-based payments used to effectively provide (1) financing to the issuer or (2) awards granted in conjunction with selling goods or services to customers as part of a contract accounted for under Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The amendments in this Update are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and after December 15, 2019 for all other entities. Early adoption is permitted, but no earlier than an entitys adoption date of Topic 606. The Company does not anticipate that adoption of these guidances will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance on revenue from contracts with customers that will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. Under the new standard, a good or service is transferred to the customer when (or as) the customer obtains control of the good or service, which differs from the risk and rewards approach under current guidance. The guidance provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. Other major provisions include capitalization of certain contract costs, consideration of the time value of money in the transaction price and allowing estimates of variable consideration to be recognized before contingencies are resolved in certain circumstances. The guidance also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers. In March, April and May 2016, the FASB issued three additional updates regarding identifying performance obligations and licensing, certain principal versus agent considerations and various narrow scope improvements based on practical questions raised by users. In September 2017, the FASB issued additional amendments providing clarification and implementation guidance. The guidance may be adopted through either retrospective application to all periods presented in the financial statements (full retrospective approach) or through a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings at the effective date (modified retrospective approach). The guidance is effective for the fiscal periods beginning on January 1, 2018. Leases In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (ASU 2016-02), which modifies lease accounting for lessees to increase transparency and comparability by recording lease assets and liabilities for operating leases and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The new standard, as amended by ASU 2018-01 and ASU 2018-11, is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 on a modified retrospective basis. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 in its first quarter of the year ending October 31 2020. The Company expects its leases designated as operating leases in Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies, will be reported on the consolidated balance sheets upon adoption. However, the ultimate impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 will depend on the lease terms as of the adoption date. The Company has reviewed all recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements and do not believe the future adoptions of any such pronouncements may be expected to cause a material impact on the financial condition or the results of operations.