Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this report, and those set forth from time to time in our other filings with the SEC, contain forward-looking statements. Although we believe that, in making any such statements, our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statement may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to our anticipated financial performance, business prospects, expectations of future revenues and funding requirements, business strategy, the market for our products, our competitive position with regard to any competitor, the market for our products generally, market acceptance of our products and technology over competing technologies, and our expectation regarding the ongoing and future impact of COVID-19 on our business and results of operations. Forward looking statements are often preceded by, followed by or include the words expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, can, may, could, should, would, assume, forecasts, believe, will, potential, position, predicts, strategy, guidance, intend, budget, seek, project or continue. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, business strategy and financial needs. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of any number of factors, including those set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and elsewhere in our other public filings. Some of the factors that may cause actual results, our performance or achievements, or industry results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to: 1. The companys lack of funds: for new R&D, especially in clinical testing; for new equipment and the utilization of the production process after the NMPA approval; for marketing and sales network build-up; 2. The company may need to seek funding through such vehicles as convertible notes and warrants, private placements, and/or convertible debentures; 3. The company plans to seek approval for clinical testing and marketing on a worldwide basis, including US FDA approval for testing and marketing in the United States of America, and there is no guaranty that we will obtain any such approval; 4. While the company currently holds two patents originating in China, the patents does not protect our intellectual property in the United States, and the company is unsure of the validity of the patent in other countries. However, specific trade secrets are involved in the manufacturing of our product to help protect our technologies, and reverse engineering is unlikely for our types of products and technologies. New patents are expected to be filed as result of our continuous research works for new and refined materials. Additionally, all machinery used to manufacture our products is protected by Chinese patents; 5. The Companys new product offerings may not be accepted in the marketplace; 6. The Company faces risks related to access to information and regulatory oversight. According to Article 177 of the PRC Securities Law, which became effective in March 2020, no overseas securities regulator can directly conduct investigations or evidence collection activities within the PRC and no entity or individual in China may provide documents and information relating to securities business activities to overseas regulators without Chinese government approval. As a result, investors in China-based Issuers may not benefit from a regulatory environment that fosters effective enforcement of U.S. federal securities laws; 7. The company faces other risks related to being based in China, including but not limited to: restrictions on the Public Company Accounting Oversight Boards (PCAOB) ability to inspect audit work and practices of PCAOB-registered public accounting firms in China and Hong Kong; restrictions on U.S. regulators access to information and ability to investigate or pursue remedies with respect to China-based Issuers; difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing judgments obtained in U.S. courts, and bringing claims against the company or its directors and officers. 8. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted, and may in the future materially and adversely affect our business; These risks are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report relate only to events as of the date on which such statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this Annual Report or to conform such statements to actual results or revised expectations, except as required by law. 3 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Organizational History Advanced Biomedical Technologies, Inc. has one direct wholly owned subsidiary, Masterise Holdings Ltd., a limited liability company organized under the laws of British Virgin Islands (Masterise). Masterise, owns seventy percent (70%) of the issued and outstanding equity or voting interests in Shenzhen Changhua, a company formed under the laws of the Peoples Republic of China. (ABMT, Masterise, and Shenzhen Changhua are collectively referred to throughout this document as We, Us, Our (and similar pronouns), ABMT and the Company). We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on September 12, 2006. We maintain our statutory registered agents office at The Corporation Trust Company of Nevada, 311 S Division Street, Carson City, Nevada 89703, and our business office is located at 200 Park Avenue, Suite 1700, New York City, NY 10166. We have not been subject to any bankruptcy, receivership, or similar proceeding, or any material reclassification or consolidation. Our primary business is carried out by Masterise through Shenzhen Changhua, as set forth in the following diagram: Shenzhen Changhua does not have any subsidiary. Organizational History of Masterise and Shenzhen Changhua Masterise is a wholly owned subsidiary of Advanced Biomedical Technologies, Inc. Masterise is a limited liability company which was organized under the laws of British Virgin Islands (BVI) on May 31, 2007, and owns 70% of the capital stock of Shenzhen Changhua. Shenzhen Changhua is a limited liability company which was organized under the laws of PRC on September 25, 2002. Since their founding, Shenzhen Changhua has been involved in the development of polymer screws, rods and binding wires for fixation on human fractured bones. The Company is currently involved in researching, manufacturing, marketing and conducting clinical trials on its products and intends to raise additional capital to produce and market its products commercially. The Company holds one Class III permit and one Class II permit from the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA), now the National Medical Products Administration of the PRC (NMPA). The Company holds three patents issued by the State Intellectual Property Office of the P.R.C. (SIPO) and further patent applications are currently under review by the SIPO. 4 Primary Products Our primary products include Polymer Osteosynthesis Devices made of a proprietary material compositing of polyamide 6 (PA6), hydroxyapatite (HA) and poly(methyl methacrylate-co-N-vinylpyrrolidone) (P(MMA-co-NVP)). These advanced materials are used in surgical screws, binding wires, rods and related medical devices for the treatment of orthopaedic trauma, sports-related medical treatment, cartilage repair, and related treatments, and reconstructive dental procedures. Our polymer orthopaedic internal fixation screws received approval from the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA), now the National Medical Products Administration of the PRC (NMPA), in April 2018; and our PA Binding Wires are under clinical trials; and our PA Mini-Screws are under animal test. Product Characteristics: The Companys new and unique material has ideal mechanical properties with similar strength, toughness, tensile strength and flexibility etc. to the human bone. Its elasticity, toughness and high fatigue resistance can effectively stabilize fractures without causing stress shielding. Its strong biocompatibility includes: no inflammation, no pyrogen, no cytotoxicity, no subchronic systemic toxicity etc. Additionally, the biomaterials promote the synthesis of matrix mature protein (ALP, collagen I, osteopontin, osteocalcin) gene expressions, via local transcription factors of osterix, Runx2 mRNA for a long time. Facilitating the continuous synthesis of extracellular matrix proteins required for cell mineralization, and bone tissue regeneration from an effective bio-interface integration. More than 10 years of clinical trials and long-term follow-ups have shown our PA bone screw products to be safe and effective, completing 100% of the required clinical trials with a 100% success rate. Unlike metallic screws, our PA screws do not require secondary removal surgery, even over long periods of time. Our innovative biomedical composite material exhibits the following key technological attributes: 1. Notably reduced implant removal surgeries due to post-operative complications: avoids the unnecessary risk and expense associated with competing technologies ; 2. Enhanced material performance: our material is manufactured to be easily fitted, facilitating an exact fit for each patient need ; 3. Improved biological activity of materials: clinical trial results have shown that PA implants promote a progressive shift of load to the new bone creating micro-motion and thereby avoiding bone atrophy due to stress shielding ; 4. Reduced chance of post-operative infection: use of our PA implants reduces post-operative infections, speeding recovery times ; 5. Stimulates bone tissues: use of our PA implant technology facilitates effective biological integration, benefitting bone regeneration ; 6. Ease of post-operative care: our products do not distort during x-ray imaging, further easing post-operative care ; 7. Simple and cost-effective to manufacture. The Company has developed six proprietary polymer fixation implant product lines, including screws, pins, tacks, rods and binding wires, which provide an alternative to metal implants and overcome the limitations of first generation re-absorbable fixation devices. The Companys product range will ultimately cover the full gamut of components for implantation, including human orthopaedic and dental applications, as well as veterinary applications. Industry Development The fracture fixation industry has developed through three generations of materials science: The first generation internal-fracture fixation material: The first generation internal-fracture-fixer components are usually made of stainless steel, titanium and alloy. Due to their high intensity, low costs and easy machining character, these components have achieved huge success in fracture treatment and remain the most widely used internal-fracture-fixer material. However, their prominent flaws are the huge difference between metals elasticity co-efficient, easily causing second-time bone fracture. The metallic ion can also cause tissue inflammation, and the need of a secondary surgery to have them taken out. These flaws stimulated the development of the degradable macromolecule material. The second generation fracture fixation material: The second generation bone-fracture-fixed components are made of degradable macromolecule material, such as PLLA, PGA and PDS, etc. The disadvantage of these components is rapid self-degeneration in early stages after the initial implant. For example, the strength of SR-PLLA decreases to 10-20Mpa after 4 weeks of implantation. Therefore, the second generation bone-fracture-fixed components can be only used to treat substantial spongiosa bone fractures. 5 The third generation fracture fixation material: The third generation fracture fixation material, biodegradable fracture fixation components are currently under research by developed countries. There are many technical challenges to research in the third generation fracture fixation material field; for example, the materials must have a high degree of bio-compatibility and mechanical compatibility. They also must be of high biological activity, self-absorbable, and degeneration controllable. Product Development After careful deliberation, we selected the polymer screw as our first product to market. In order to replace the widely-used metal components, the new materials must meet multiple bio-consistency and mechanical-consistency requirements. Furthermore, they must also exhibit specific properties with respect to bio-activities, degradability, and controllable degradation speed. Although many macromolecule materials are degradable inside human body, relatively few provide the physical characters required for fracture fixation. Development began with selection of macromolecule materials that exhibited the desired physical characters, leading, ultimately, to our selection of polyamide. In order to achieve the desired mechanical performance and degrading speed, various chemical and physical techniques were employed to modify the bio-degradable polyamide so as to synthesize the required new bio-degradable material. This phase of our research also entailed the selection of monomer class, polymerization conditions, the mensuration of polymer molecular weight, hydrophile capability, crystal capability, the mensuration and controlled degrading speed of the polymer, the mensuration and control of the mechanical performance of the polymer, and numerous other critical considerations. Our next challenge was to identify a suitable bio-active inorganic material, and to optimize the compound and associated production conditions. It was critical that we could predict and control the bio-activities of the implanted fixture material, and to this end we used high grade and mature phosphate type bio-active materials, taking into account the preparation characteristics of the compound material, and the surface character requirements of the finished products. We also improved current technical parameters by modifying the surface character, thereby achieving critical control over the desired grain size and surface activities. The third technological hurdle involved the actual preparation and utilization of the engineered compound in conjunction with a bio-active material. Hydronium bombardment of the surface, with spread and cover techniques, was employed during this critical step in the process. This had the effect of creating a well-knit bio-active membrane on the degradable polymers surface, and embedding a bio-active core inside the degradable polymer stick, so as to form the bio-active degradable compound material. The final step entailed strengthening and shaping the processed compound by using directional extrusion and molding. Degradable acantha inoculators, fixation screws, orthopaedics stuffing, enlace strings, and anti-conglutination membrane can all be manufactured, as needed, using this same technique. Our company has studied and researched Polyamide, changing its chemical and physical properties to meet the above requirements. As a result of our research we have: 1. Increased mechanical strength to 170Mpa. 2. Increased biological activities to accelerate bone cell substitution. 3. Extended the degeneration period during the implant. While the PA is degenerating layer by layer, the bone cells grow and take its place. 6 Product Analysis Our products are manufactured in a 100,000 level GMP factory with stringent quality management system, workshop alongside a 10,000-level bacteria purification zone. The R&D, production and quality management capabilities satisfies the requirements of implantable medical device production management specifications, ISO9001 and ISO13485. Over the years, Shenzhen Changhua has developed a series of orthopedic internal fixation products such as bone screws, rib nails, tying lines and bone plates using a newly synthesized material, PPH (PA6-P(MMA-co-NVP)-HA) Overview of PA Devices and Market in the US, China and Worldwide The global orthopaedic device market reached US$51 billion in 2018, owing to multiple factors that are enabling it to progress at a CAGR of 15% from 2019 to 2023. The key drivers of the global orthopaedic devices market are the 2 factors below: 1. Rapidly aging population 2. High demand for painless treatments Growth in geriatric population is primarily pushing demand for orthopaedic solutions globally. Effects of aging, such as diminishing bone density and weakening bones due to excessive loss of bone mass, make their presence felt from 35 years of age and become more prominent after 55 years. By 2050, 1 billion or more people would be above 60 years old. In addition, the demand for more pain-free treatments and increasing number of sport related injuries and road accidents are expected to fuel the need for orthopaedic devices. However, stringent regulatory approval procedures as well as the high cost of surgical procedures and these devices are the main reasons restraining market growth, and making it a high-barrier of entry. Chinas Market for PA Devices With a population of over 1.3 billion, China is the worlds most densely populated country and makes up of one-fifth of the worlds population. Chinas population is nearly five times more than United States even though both roughly cover the same geographic area. There are 32 Provinces, Autonomous Regions, and Municipalities of Mainland China. 7 Chinas orthopaedic implant device industry is in a state of rapid market growth. With the acceleration of population aging, the improvement of medical policies, and an increase in peoples treatment awareness, Chinas orthopaedic implant medical device sector continues to boom, with a huge potential orthopaedic market base and developmental space. According to The Blue Book of Chinese Medical Devices, the size of the orthopaedic implant market in China reached US$4.34 billion and US$3.74 billion in 2019 and 2018, an annual increase of 16.03% and 16.44% respectively, and the compound annual growth rate from 2010 to 2018 was 17.52%. With a domestic aging population, coupled with increasing demand for health care and increased purchasing power, the orthopaedic implant market is expected to maintain an annual growth rate of 15%. (source: 2020 China NMPA Blue Book).) Competitive Analysis To the best of our knowledge, our Company is the only patent holder of PA technologies in China, as well as the only company received the NMPA (formerly the CFDA) approval in China. At this time there are no similar products in this market. Moreover, due to the nature of the regulatory environment, and the requirements and logistics of mounting a clinical trial, it would take any new competitor a minimum of three years to catch up to our lead in this area alone. Factoring in our established relationships with key customers, distributors, and regulators, as well as our ready-to-run production facilities, and our actual advantage is considerably longer than the 3-year regulatory advantage. This represents an invaluable window in which to firmly entrench our company as the preferred purveyor of self-reinforced, absorbable biodegradable PA components in the Chinese health care environment. To reiterate, our company and product line offer several critical competitive advantages, specifically: There are no similar patent registrations in China. Our initial product, the PA Screw approved by the NMPA in 2018, has completed 100% of the required clinical trials, with a 100% success rate. We are the only company qualified and permitted to conduct clinical trials of other PA products by Chinas NMPA. We have a timing advantage over other companies in China, which would have to go through the preclinical testing before they could even apply for a permit to conduct actual clinical trials. Under the existing regulatory structure, it would take at least 3 years for any competitors clinical trials to be completed, and total of 7 or more years to reach the point where we are now. Specific Competition Competition in the medical implant device industry is intense both in China and in global markets. In orthopaedics, ABMTs principal competitors are the numerous companies that sell metal implants. ABMT competes with the manufacturers and marketers of metal implants by emphasizing the ease of implantation of the Companys polymer implants, the cost effectiveness of such products, and the elimination of risks associated with the necessity of performing removal surgeries frequently required with less modern products. According to the record from the NMPA and our estimates, it will take at least 5 years for another medical device provider with similar technology to appear in the market. This is because much time will need to be spent on developing material compatibility, safety and undergoing clinical trials in reaching proper standards. In addition, the current market is mainly saturated with metallic compound bone screws, and the medical industry has been using it predominantly since the 1900s. Not only is our invented material biologically stable and easily accepted by the human body, it is also very versatile and therefore has a great market potential. Our primary competition will be the generation-one and generation-two counterparts, which, despite their functional inferiority, enjoy the benefit of familiarity and an established manufacturing and marketing base. This competition comes from a number of entrenched players worldwide, including Stryker Corp, Zimmer Biomet, Medtronic, Johnson & Johnson Services, and Smith & Nephew and others. Although many of these competitors have substantially greater resources upon which to draw, we believe that the technological superiority of the more forward-looking product will ultimately equalize the playing field by orthopaedic innovation. 8 Product Comparisons Among many other advantages, a main advantage of ABMTs proprietary PA technology is the elimination of the need for secondary surgery to remove an implantation device. Implant removal belongs to the most common elective orthopaedic procedures in industrial countries. In children, implant removal may be necessary to remove implants early to avoid disturbances to the growing skeleton, to prevent their bony immuring making later removal technically difficult or impossible, and to allow for planned reconstructive surgery after skeletal maturation (e.g., in case of hip dysplasia). In adults, pain, soft tissue irritation, the resumption of strenuous activities or contact sports after fracture healing, and the patients demand are typical indications for implant removal in clinical practice. However, implant removal requires a second surgical procedure in scarred tissue, and poses a risk for nerve damage and re-fractures. (cite: Hanson et al.BMC Musculoskeletal Disorders 2008) Metallic Compounds Poly-lactic Acid ABMTs Material (Polyamide) Market Size & Growth ~97% CAGR = 7% (From Oxford Academics) ~3% CAGR = 15% (From Oxford Academics on polymer based medical devices) N/A CAGR = 15% (From Oxford Academics on polymer based medical devices) Bio-compatibility level Bending Strength and tensile strength exceeds that of the human bone. Bending strength and tensile strength are close to that of the human bone Bending strength and tensile strength are close to that of the human bone Problems/ Issues Metallic ions cause extreme inflammation; Reduction in mechanical hold and sturdiness Acidic compounds in bones result in aseptic inflammation and severe water accumulation No apparent issues and with mechanical sturdiness; no inflammation resulted. Long-term Effects Impair and damage nearby tissues If placed too long High degradation speed; resulting in empty slots in bones; could cause a 2nd bone fracture High bio-stability and long-lasting support Surgical cost Requires removal surgery (40% of the time) ; Increasing cost (Additional $500 USD) , physical and mental pain Does not require a 2nd surgery, acidic compounds excreted out from the body Does not require 2nd surgery. No toxic compounds released into blood circulation Remarks Composition not easily affected by external factors during production Characteristics and properties easily altered during manufacturing, purification and storage processes Composition and characteristics not easily affected by external factors during production 1 Metallic Compounds have been traced in serum and hair of 16 of 46 patients after receiving titanium implants. (cite: Kasai Y, Iida R, Uchida A: Metal concentrations in the serum and hair of patients with titanium alloy spinal implants.) 2 Implant removal belongs to the most common elective orthopaedic procedures in the industrial countries. In a frequently cited Finnish study, implant removal contributed to almost 30% of all planned orthopaedic operations, and 15% of all operations . (cite: Bostman O, Pihlajamaki H: Routine implant removal after fracture surgery: a potentially reducible consumer of hospital resources in trauma units.) 9 Towards the end of the last century, spinal and orthopaedic implants evolved towards progressively stronger and stiffer devices, as it was presumed that increased construct rigidity would optimize the biological milieu and provide more rapid and robust healing and arthrodesis. For the past 20 years, titanium has been the most widely used, and the most expensive material for fixing fractures (in both elective and emergency surgery). More than 1,000 tons (2.2 million pounds) of titanium devices of every description and function are implanted in patients worldwide each year. Although metal exhibits the desired strength and rigidity to allow the healing process to begin, there are a number of issues associated with using permanent titanium systems. Our PA materials deliver many of the benefits of their metal counterparts, without the disadvantages: METAL ABMTs PA devices Cranial Growth Growth restriction Intracranial implant migration Stimulation of growth leading to better bone healing Accumulation of Metal in tissues Yes No Adverse Effect Many necessitate removal operation either for mechanical strength of the overall structure majority of implant failures occur at the bone-screw interface with screw pullout being the most common mechanistic cause of construct failure should the bone fail to heal, these micromotions will persist and cause the metallic screw to oscillate within the far softer surrounding bone interface None Stiffness for optimal healing Too stiff Stress shielding can result in bone atrophy and degradation Optimal stiffness/flexibility characteristics to achieve surgical fixation, while conforming to the softer, more pliable bone of the patient Other Effects Implant palpability Temperature sensitivity Occasionally visibility Could cause trauma in the event of mechanical failure Imaging and radiotherapy interference Potential for cross contamination No long-term palpability No temperature sensitivity Predictable degradation Reduced patient trauma No imaging and radiotherapy interference No second surgery required Cost of product Cost to hospital: $400-$2200 Cost to hospital: $800 Intellectual Property The Company has been granted one patent for its material by the State Intellectual Property Office of the P.R.China (SIPO), patent no. ZL971190739. This patent also protects the use and manufacturing process of the material. In January 2017, SIPO has issued to the Company a new patent titled Bone Fracture Plate Made of High Polymer Materials, patent no. ZL 2014 1 0647464.1, which strengthens the Companys position in manufacturing process and related controls using our unique polyamide materials. 10 The Company is establishing broad and new intellectual property protection schemes around our unique PA product lines, not only on its combination compounds, but also to lead as an outstanding material in the future of clinical activity. Patent Abstract The present invention discloses a macromolecular implant for human body and its preparation process, and relates to the products made up by using said macromolecular implant and their application. Said invented product is made up by using resin fiber through hot-pressing treatment according to the formula provided by said invention, and its strength is high, tenacity is good and its shape can be processed according to the requirement in the period of bone union after implantation, and said implant can be made into the fixation block, eurymeric block, fastening piece and suture for reduction of fracture, and can be started to be degraded from twenty-fourth week after implantation, and can be absorbed by human body after 1.5-2 years, and its cost is low. Employees As of October 31, 2020, we had 17 employees, with 6 employees in R&D, Clinical and Regulatory, 5 employees in Manufacturing, 5 employees in General and Administration, and 1 employee in Accounting. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and our employee relations have been good. The companys facilities are located at Block A, Longcheng Tefa Industrial park, Longgang, Shenzhen, China. Insurance While we are carrying out the Clinical Trials, we do not have any Product Liability Insurance coverage for the use of our proposed products. We intend to obtain Product Liability Insurance coverage for commercial sale of our products in due course. Government Regulations Our primary target market is the medical community of the Peoples Republic of China (PRC). Medical devices manufactured by the Company in China are subject to regulation by the National Medical Products Administration of the PRC (NMPA), formerly the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) and the State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) of the PRC. The manufacturing facilities are also required to meet Chinas Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) standards. The Companys production facilities are fully compliant with GMP requirements. The Companys PA Screw was approved by the NMPA in April 2018. Furthermore, due to the uniqueness of our PA Screw, it has been independently categorized so the marketing prices are set by the Company rather than healthcare platforms. 11 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are not required to provide the information under this item. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments from the SEC. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES None. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are not involved in any pending or imminent litigations or current legal proceedings. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE Not applicable. 12 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Only a limited market exists for our securities. There is no assurance that a regular trading market will develop, or if developed, that it will be sustained. Therefore, a shareholder in all likelihood will be unable to resell his securities in our company. Furthermore, it is unlikely that a lending institution will accept our securities as pledged collateral for loans unless a regular trading market develops. Our companys securities are traded on the worlds largest electronic interdealer quotation system OTCQB operated by the OTC Markets Group under the symbol ABMT. Fiscal Year High Bid Low Bid 2020 Fourth Quarter 08-01-20 to 10-31-20 $ 0.336 $ 0.15 Third Quarter 05-01-20 to 07-31-20 $ 0.51 $ 0.151 Second Quarter 02-01-20 to 04-30-20 $ 0.30 $ 0.034 First Quarter 11-01-19 to 01-31-20 $ 0.20 $ 0.047 Fiscal Year High Bid Low Bid 2019 Fourth Quarter 08-01-19 to 10-31-19 $ 0.25 $ 0.012 Third Quarter 05-01-19 to 07-31-19 $ 0.322 $ 0.121 Second Quarter 02-01-19 to 04-30-19 $ 0.50 $ 0.112 First Quarter 11-01-18 to 01-31-19 $ 0.75 $ 0.121 Shareholders At October 31, 2020, we had 60 shareholders of record of our common stock, including shares held by brokerage clearing houses, depositories or otherwise in unregistered form. We have no outstanding options or warrants, or other securities convertible into, common equity. Dividend Policy We have not declared any cash dividends. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, but rather to reinvest earnings, if any, in our business operations. 13 Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Our shares are covered by section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended that imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker/dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouses). For transactions covered by the Rule, the broker/dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase and have received the purchasers written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, the Rule may affect the ability of broker/dealers to sell our securities and also may affect your ability to sell your shares in the secondary market. Section 15(g) also imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker/dealers who sell penny securities. These rules require a one-page summary of certain essential items. The items include the risk of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and secondary marketing; terms important to in understanding of the function of the penny stock market, such as bid and offer quotes, a dealers spread and broker/dealer compensation; the broker/dealer compensation, the broker/dealers duties to its customers, including the disclosures required by any other penny stock disclosure rules; the customers rights and remedies in causes of fraud in penny stock transactions; and, the FINRAs toll free telephone number and the central number of the North American Administrators Association, for information on the disciplinary history of broker/dealers and their associated persons. Securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans We have no equity compensation plans and accordingly we have no shares authorized for issuance under an equity compensation plan. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA We are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and are not required to provide the information under this item. 14 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read this discussion together with the Financial Statements, related Notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The following discussion contains assumptions, estimates and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS, and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Overview The following discussion is an overview of the important factors that management focuses on in evaluating our businesses, financial condition and operating performance and should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of any number of factors, including those set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and elsewhere in our other public filings. Factors that may cause actual results, our performance or achievements, or industry results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements include without limitation: 1. The companys lack of funds in new R&D, especially in clinical testing; 2. The companys lack of funds in new equipment and the utilization of the production process after the NMPA approval; 3. The company may need to seek funding through such vehicles as convertible notes and warrants, private placements, and/or convertible debentures; 4. The company needs funding for marketing and sales network build-up; 5. The company plans to seek approval for clinical testing and marketing on a worldwide basis, including US FDA approval for testing and marketing in the United States of America, and there is no guaranty that we will obtain any such approval; 6. While the company currently holds two patents originating in China, the patents does not protect our intellectual property in the United States, and the company is unsure of the validity of the patent in other countries. However, specific trade secrets are involved in the manufacturing of our product to help protect our technologies, and reverse engineering is unlikely for our types of products and technologies. New patents are expected to be filed as result of our continuous research works for new and refined materials. Additionally, all machinery used to manufacture our products is protected by Chinese patents. The Company is subject to a number of risks similar to other companies in the medical device industry. These risks include rapid technological change, uncertainty of market acceptance of our products, uncertainty of regulatory approval, competition from substitute products from larger companies, the need to obtain additional financing, compliance with government regulations, protection of proprietary technology, product liability, and the dependence on key individuals. All written and oral forward-looking statements made in connection with this Form 10-K that are attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Given the uncertainties that surround such statements, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 15 Our Business We are engaged in the business of designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing of biomaterial internal fixation devices. We hold one medical device permit from the National Medical Products Administration of the PRC (NMPA) for our product - polymer orthopaedic internal fixation screws and three patents issued by the State Intellectual Property Office of the P.R.C. (SIPO). Our polyamide materials, their uses and manufacturing processes are protected by Patent No. ZL971190739. Patent No. ZL201410647464.1 titled Bone Fracture Plate Made of High Polymer Materials and patent No. ZL201511005531.0 titled Composite fiber, manufacturing method and orthopaedic binding wire were granted to us in 2018 and 2020 respectively. Our polyamide materials are used in producing screws, binding wires, rods and related products. These products are used in a variety of applications including orthopaedic trauma, sports related medical treatment, or cartilage injuries, and reconstructive dental procedures. At this time, our company is the sole patent holder and market permit holder of PA technologies in China, as well as the only company currently engaged in clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing for PA orthopaedic internal fixation devices in the PRC. Our products are made of a very unique material called PA6-P(MMA-CO-NVP)-HA (PA). Our PA products, such as screws, binding wires, rods, suture anchors and rib-pins consist of enhanced fibers and high molecular polymers which are designed to facilitate quick healing of complex fractures in many areas of the human skeletal system. Our products offer a number of significant advantages over existing metal implants and the first generation of degradable implants (i.e. PLLA) for patients, surgeons and other customers including: 1. A notably reduced need for a secondary surgery to remove implant due to post-operative complications, therefore avoiding unnecessary risk and expense on all patient care; 2. Enhancing the performance of the materials by manufacturing them to be easily fitted to each patient, forming an exact fit; 3. Improving the biological activity of materials. Clinical trial results have shown that PA implants promote a progressive shift of load to the new bone creating micro-motion and thereby avoiding bone atrophy due to stress shielding; 4. Reducing the chance of post-operative infection; 5. Stimulate bone tissues to facilitate effective biological integration, benefitting the regeneration of bone; 6. Ease of post-operative care i.e. no distortion during x-ray imaging; 7. Simple and cost-effective to manufacture. Our products are designed to replace the traditional internal fixation device made of stainless steel and titanium and overcome the limitations of previous generations of products such as PLA and PLLA. Our laboratory statistics show that our PA products have a higher mechanical strength, last longer in degradation ratio and are more evenly absorbed form outer layer inwards as compared with similar materials such as PLA and PLLA. Thus PA allows increased restoration time for bone healing and re-growth. The Companys polymer orthopaedic internal fixation screws received approval from the National Medical Products Administration of the PRC (NMPA) in April 2018. We launched our sales campaign at the end of our fiscal year ended October 31, 2019 and achieved a milestone in the Companys history by generating revenue through the sales of our PA Screws. NMPA Application Process and Approval for Polymer Screws The Company first submitted its application for PA Screws to the NMPA (formerly the SFDA/CFDA) in 2008. The application has been withheld by the NMPA pending additional clinical trial cases. This is due to the amended NMPA regulations, which unlike previous regulations require the applicant to specify the position on the body where the clinical trial is carried out. Our amended NMPA application has specified the ankle fracture as the body part of our clinical trial. This is because bones around this part carry most of the body weight. Due to the uniqueness of our material, there were no established NMPA Product Standards that we could follow during our application process for our PA Screws. To establish our own Product Standards, the Company had been carrying out extra tests. The Company submitted its Product Standards and supplementary reports to the NMPA in 2014. In December 2016, the Company received a notice from the NMPA requesting supplementary report as part of the review process. The Company completed the supplementary report and submitted it to the NMPA in June 2017. In April 2018, the Companys application for its PA Screws was approved by the NMPA in China (Medical Device Certification Number: 20183460133). 16 Clinical Trials on Other Products The Company has completed a total of 83 successful clinical human trial cases, including 71 cases on ankle fractures and 57 successful PA Binding Wire trial cases. We have been conducting human trials at the 6 state level hospitals recognized by NMPA for clinical trials in different cities throughout China; including Nanchang, Changsha, Luoyang, Nanning and Tianjin. The cities and provinces where our clinical trial hospitals are based will be the initial target regions on our marketing plan. These regions are both densely populated and have experienced high or above medium economic growth. The clinical trials for the Companys PA Screws have been completed with 100 percent success rate. Having gained NMPA approval for PA Screws, the Company is planning to start clinical trials on series of orthopaedic products the Company has developed using the same unique biomaterial. Government Regulation Medical implant devices/products manufactured or marketed by the Company in China are subject to extensive regulations by the NMPA. Pursuant to the related laws and acts, as amended, and the regulations promulgated there under (the NMPA Regulations), the NMPA regulates the clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution and promotion of medical devices. The NMPA also has the authority to request repair, replacement, or refund of the cost of any device manufactured or distributed by the Company. Under the NMPA Regulations, medical devices are classified into three classes (class I, II or III), the basis of the controls deemed necessary by the NMPA to reasonably assure their safety and efficacy. Under the NMPAs regulations, class I devices are subject to general controls (for example, labeling and adherence to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) requirements) and class II devices are subject to general and special controls. Generally, class III devices are those which must receive premarket approval by the NMPA to ensure their safety and efficacy (for example, life-sustaining, life-supporting and certain implantable devices, or new devices which have not been found substantially equivalent to legally marketed class I or class II devices). The Company is classified as a manufacturer of class III medical devices. Current NMPA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. Before a new device can be introduced into the market in China, the manufacturer generally must obtain NMPA marketing clearance through clinical trials. Since the Company is classified as a manufacturer of Class III medical devices, the Company must carry out all clinical trials in pre-selected NMPA approved hospitals. Manufacturers of medical devices for marketing in China are required to adhere to GMP requirements. Enforcement of GMP requirements has increased significantly in the last several years and the NMPA has publicly stated that compliance will be more strictly scrutinized. From time to time the NMPA has made changes to the GMP and other requirements that increase the cost of compliance. Changes in existing laws or requirements or adoption of new laws or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will not incur significant costs to comply with applicable laws and requirements in the future or that applicable laws and requirements will not have a material adverse effect upon the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulations regarding the development, manufacturing and sale of the Companys products are subject to change. The Company cannot predict the impact, if any, that such changes might have on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Results of Operations The Results of Operations discussed in this section merely reflect the information and results of Masterise and Shenzhen Changhua for the years ended October 31, 2020 and 2019. Sales and Marketing The Company launched the sales and marketing campaign of its NMPA approved unique proprietary bio-polymer internal fixation screws (PA Screws) at the end of the fiscal year ended October 31, 2019. The campaign was kick-started with the signing of a sales and marketing distribution agreement between Shenzhen Changhua, an ABMT subsidiary, and Guangzhou Ding Hua Biomedical Technology Ltd. (GZDH), a medical device sales company based in Guangzhou, South China. Both companies share core values and a common vision of the future. Guangzhou Ding Hua (GZDH) has been authorized as Changhuas national sales representative company and will be leading its sales effort in China, where the market value for orthopaedic devices is expected to reach US$4 billion and continue to grow in the coming years. Mr. Tie Jun Chen, a related party, has a significant equity interest in Guangzhou Ding Hua (GZDH). 17 The Company has established long term relationships with many hospitals and national distributors in China. Ms. Hui Wang, the Companys CEO, has over 25 years sales experience in medical distribution. She is in charge of our sales programs. Professor LIU, Shangli, our chief medical advisor for Greater China, is one of the highest ranked orthopaedic doctors in China as well as being highly renowned in the rest of the world. He has assisted the Company in nationwide product promotion and joint projects with associated academic institutions and medical schools. The Company has been actively boosting its brand through participating in national and provincial orthopaedic conferences, garnering deals with national and provincial distributors. In addition, we have coordinated with government authorities to obtain the National New Orthopaedic Consumables Classification Code (OCCC) especially for our unique proprietary bio-polymer internal fixation screws and completed the provincial product registrations meeting Chinas Medical Sourcing regulations. We believe that these activities will not only strengthen our network of agents and distributors to reach a greater number of hospitals, but also allow us to better understand the needs and demands of surgeons, without inhibiting existing operational procedures and maximizing the effectiveness of our products. Revenues The Company achieved a milestone in its history at the end of the fiscal year ended October 31, 2019, by completing sales of $11,657 to its distributor, a company in which Mr. Tie Jun Chen, a key management personnel of Shenzhen Changhua, has a significant equity interest. We generated $60,501 in sales revenue in the following quarter ended January 31, 2020, an over 400% increase compared with the previous quarter. Our marketing campaign was then disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic during the second and third quarter of 2020. Like most of the businesses in Mainland China, our facility in Shenzhen was closed during pandemic lockdown. With the easing of COVID-19 restrictions in Mainland China, we generated $62,336 in sales revenue in the fourth quarter ended October 31, 2020, and achieved a quarterly growth rate of 435% compared with the quarter ended October 31, 2019. We anticipate our sales revenue to grow at a moderate rate during 2021. Cost of Sales Cost of sales for the years ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 was $51,817 and $7,596 respectively, which accounted for 41.93% and 65.16% of the gross revenue. Most of the costs were expenses for attending exhibitions and trade shows. Gross Profits Gross profits for the years ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 was $71,770 and $4,061 respectively. Compared to prior year, the gross profits for the years ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 were positive rather than nil. We started to generate revenue at the end of our fiscal year from inception to October 31, 2019 before our sales campaign was disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic, Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the years ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 were $518,394 and $608,799 respectively, which accounted for 419.46% and 5,222.6% of the gross revenue. Compared to prior year, operating expenses for the years ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 were reduced by 14.85% and 3.98%. The primary reasons for the changes were due to the General and Administrative expenses reduction of $99,551 or 30.72% and $237,200 or 42.27% for the years ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 respectively, in addition to Research and Development reduction of $80,680 or 30.6% for the year ended October 31, 2020, and Research and Development increment of $207,127 or 366.52% for the year ended October 31, 2019. 18 Funding Needs The Company estimates that it will need to raise minimum $1,000,000 over the next 12 months to market and expand the sales of its products. This amount may increase if we decide to start clinical trials on new products. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our sales plan has been disrupted and our revenue was insufficient to cover our expenditures in 2020. We estimate that our sales revenue to be insufficient to meet our operating costs in 2021, albeit our sales revenue started to recover with the easing of pandemic restrictions in China. Therefore, we will continue to rely on external investments and shareholders loans to cover our cash shortage. While the Company has no outside sources of funding, the Companys shareholders have committed to advance the Company funds as needed. There is a Letter of Continuing Financial Support signed between the Company and one of its major shareholders, Titan Technology Development Ltd. The management team is continuously looking for fundraising possibilities for sales and marketing expansion, product improvement, machinery upgrades, facility expansions and continuous research and development. Estimate current production lines in full capacity Our facility is located in Shenzhen, China, which is built to meet the GMP standards. Our facility covers about 865 square meters, which includes the combined facilities of offices, laboratories, and workshops. There is one production line for the PA Screw and another production line for the PA Binding Wire. The annual production capabilities of each production line are 100,000 pieces for PA Screw, and 240,000 packs for the PA Binding Wires. Both production lines, at their maximum production capacities are capable of generating approximately $30,000,000 in annual revenue. Output Quantity (Max.) Price at ex-factory (US$) Total Turnover (US$) PA Screw 100,000 (piece) 180 18,000,000 PA Binding Wire 240,000 (pack) 50 12,000,000 Total: 30,000,000 Chinas Marketing Analysis Chinas market for PA devices depends on 3 major conditions: - Patients - Advanced technology level - Performance and price of the materials The demand for internal fixation medical devices has rapidly increased during the last decade. According to China Health Care Year Book 2013, the total revenue of Chinese orthopaedic hospitals in 2013 was US$1.28 billion with over 11.5 million patients. From 2009 to 2013, the market size of Chinas orthopaedic devices has grown from US$1.1 billion to US$1.92 billion, and China has overtaken Japan as the second largest market in the world. The size of the orthopaedic implant market in China continued to grow from US$2 billion in 2014 to US$3.2 billion in 2017. Even taken into account of the factors that have slowed down the growth, such as centralized procurement and domestic import substitution programs, the size of the Chinas orthopaedic implant medical device market was US$4.34 billion in 2019, a growth rate of 16.03% compared with 2018.(source: 2020 China NMPA Blue Book). China has gradually entered the Old Age Society. It is expected that there will be 245 million people over 60 years of age by 2020, and, according to the survey of 50 years old, the incidence of osteoporosis is as high as 60%, accompanied by osteoporosis, fracture, bone necrosis, disability and other diseases, resulting in continued high demand of orthopaedic implant medical devices. (Source: The UN; Shenwan Hongyuan Securities research report). Other factors such as new and improved medical technology will continue to rapidly grow throughout hospitals in China, and material optimization and product pricing is expected to directly stimulate double digits market growth rate in the near future in China. 19 The Company has advantages and more opportunities over others competitors due to: - No other similar patent registrations in China. - We are the only company received market approval and permitted to perform PA clinical trials by the NMPA to the best of our knowledge. - We have a timing advantage over other companies in China, which would have to go through the preclinical testing for the NMPA permit on clinical trials. - Under new regulations by the NMPA, it will take at least 5-10 years for clinical trials of new materials. - Our patented material enables us to rapidly diversify our product line according to market trend and demand. Number of Hospitals at the end of October 2020 Statistic and Census report by the National Health Commission of the Peoples Republic of China. Statistic and Census report by National Health Commission of the Peoples Republic of China (October 2020) October 2020 October 2019 Increase / (Decrease) Total No. of Hospitals 34,879 33,752 1,127 Public Hospital 11,876 11,914 (38 ) Private Hospital 23,003 21,838 1,165 Hospital Rating AAA 2,860 2,671 189 AA 10,059 9,410 649 A 11,545 11,011 534 Unrated 10,415 10,660 (245 ) In general, technological advancements and the marketing potential within Asia are the biggest factors in driving significant growth within the global orthopaedic devices market. Another major factor that positively influences this market is the growing number of aging baby boomers with active lifestyles. This sector represents a large portion of the total population. Distribution Model The Company will market its products through a hybrid sales force comprised of a managed network of independent regional distributors/sales agents (80%) and direct sales representatives (20%) in China. Dealer/Distributor System: We collaborate with dealers to sell and distribute our products to various hospitals and reach the consumers, i.e. bone fracture victims. The company will assist dealers to promote products to famous orthopaedic hospitals By utilizing a distributor, ABMT will further benefit from promotional activities by having a second party help with common objectives, and at the same time, increase our sales audience through their contacts. Currently, we have established contacts with various national and district distributors, every distributor covers a minimum of 50 hospitals, so our total coverage is 6,000 hospitals. We will provide ongoing after-sales service, technical supports and conventional meetings, etc., to help our distributors better promote our products. Direct Hospital Sales (DHS): Our Direct Hospital Sales (DHS) regions will include Guangdong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Xinjiang, Shanghai and Beijing at the beginning. We have already established close relationships with the 7 state-level hospitals where our clinical tests have been conducted. These hospitals are located in one of the fastest growing areas of China, with healthcare coverage for 20% of the Chinese population. These 7 State level hospitals are: 1. The First Affiliated Hospital of Hunan University of Traditional Chinese Medicine. 2. The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhongshan University. 3. The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi Traditional Chinese Medicine University. 4. The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi Medical University. 5. The Peoples Hospital of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. 6. The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangxi University of Traditional Chinese Medicine. 7. Luoyang Orthopaedic-Traumatological Hospital. 20 Apart from assisting in our sales, these 7 hospitals will also be assisting ABMT in future clinical applications and trials. In addition, we will receive up-to-date information directly from physicians to develop new products better suited for current patient needs and hence, speed up product commercialization. Appointment of Chief Medical Officer On March 9, 2020, the Company announced the appointment of Prof. Puyi Sheng, M.D., PhD, as its Chief Medical Officer. Prof. Sheng, age 53, is a professor and surgeon, specializing in Primary and Revision Arthroplasties, and Joint Surgery. Prof. Sheng currently serves as the vice director of the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, the vice director of the Department of Joint Surgery in the First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, professor and PhD student mentor of Sun Yat-sen University in Guangzhou, China. Prof. Sheng received his Bachelor and Master degrees from Sun Yat-Sen University of Medical Sciences, he received his PhD in Bone Science from Sun Yat-sen University in China and PhD in Surgery from Tampere University in Finland. During his career as an orthopaedic surgeon for over 20 years, Prof. Sheng has served in various capacities at different medical institutions including the First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen University in China, Coxa Hospital for Joint Replacement in Finland and Nagoya University in Japan. Prof. Sheng has published 48 science papers as author or co-author. Prof. Sheng will have an advisory role only and report directly to and take direction from the Companys Board of Directors. His scientific and strategic input and advice will help the Companys research and development projects. Research and Development Research and development costs related to both present and future products are expensed as incurred. Total expenditure on research and development charged to general and administrative expenses for the years ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 was $182,959 and $263,639. Compared to prior period, the research and development expenses for the years ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 were reduced by 30.6% and increased by 366.52%. The main component of research and development costs is staff costs of the technical personnel on product improvements to enhance industrial design. The Company started research projects on two new products in 2020. These products are Class II and Class III medical devices for treating Sports Trauma. We expect research and development expenses to grow as we continue to invest in basic research, clinical trials, product development and in our intellectual property. The Company will be working closely with medical institutions and research universities to expedite future clinical trials of upcoming series of polymer fixation devices, including Intramedullary Nailing Fixation, Binding Wires, Micromodule Screws & Plates, Maxillofacial & Craniofacial Plates, and Rib Pins. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic The Companys primary business is carried out through its subsidiary, Shenzhen Changhua Biomedical Engineering Co., Ltd. (Shenzhen Changhua), based in Shenzhen, China, where COVID-19 pandemic started in January 2020. 21 The Company has identified the following areas that had been adversely affected by COVID-19: 1. Operation: Our facilities in China were not fully staffed due to COVID-19 lockdown, travel restrictions and quarantine requirements. This affected our accounting and marketing departments mostly because a large number of staff could not come back to office as they were not allowed to travel or have 14-day quarantine before they came back to work. Our operation gradually came back to normal with the easing of COVID-19 restrictions in China during the third and fourth quarter of 2020. 2. Manufacturing: We had sufficient raw material stock for 2 months, however, our production was affected by staff shortage and facilities closure during lockdown. 3. Marketing: We launched our sales campaign in late 2019 and we generated revenue the first time in the history of the Company at the end of 2019 fiscal year. Our sales and marketing plans were disrupted by COVID-19 pandemic because almost all the hospitals in China were dealing with COVID-19 and non-essential operations were postponed or cancelled. The Company has been working with its business partners and workforce through crisis planning, effective communication and co-operation to minimize the negative impact of COVID-19. Finance Costs As of October 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company owed $880,108 and $824,705 respectively to a stockholder Titan Technology Development Limited, which is unsecured and repayable on demand. Interest is charged at 7% per annum on the amount owed. As of October 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company owed $2,068,471 and $1,802,625 to Chi Fung Yu, $2,327,850 and $2,835,785 to Tie Jun Chen, $41,742 and $37,701 to Que Feng, $267,449 and $240,527 to Shenzhen Hygeian Medical Device Company, Limited., which are unsecured and repayable on demand. Interest is charged at 7% per annum on the amount owed. Total interest expenses on advances from a stockholder accrued for the years ended October 31, 2020 and October 31, 2019 are $50,065 and $48,418 for Titan Technology Development Limited. Total interest expenses on advances from following related parties accrued for the years ended October 31, 2020 and October 31, 2019 are $92,625 and $93,742 for Chi Fung Yu; $152,606 and $155,444 for Tie Jun Chen; $2,007 and $2,032 for Que Feng; $13,899 and $14,067 for Shenzhen Hygeian Medical Device Company. As of October 31, 2020 and October 31, 2019, the Company owed the following amounts respectively to three directors for advances made - $283,627 and $256,469 to Hui Wang; $20,930 and $23,478 to Chi Ming Yu; $3,474 and $567 to Kai Gui. These advances were made on an unsecured basis, repayable on demand and interest free. Imputed interest charged at 5% per annum on the amounts owed to the directors for the years ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 respectively is $13,695 and $12,707 for Hui Wang; $0 and $0 for Chi Ming Yu and Kai Gui. Income Tax ABMT was incorporated in the United States and has incurred net operating loss for income tax purposes for 2020 and 2019. ABMT has net operating loss carry forwards for income taxes amounting to approximately $2,421,252 and $2,224,307 as of October 31, 2020 and 2019 respectively which may be available to reduce future years taxable income. These carry forwards, will expire, if not utilized, commencing in 2029. Management believes that the realization of the benefits from these losses appears uncertain due to the Companys limited operating history and continuing losses. Accordingly, a full, deferred tax asset valuation allowance has been provided and no deferred tax asset valuation allowance has been provided and no deferred tax asset benefit has been recorded. The valuation allowance at October 31, 2020 and 2019 was $797,623 and $756,265 respectively. The net change in the valuation allowance for 2020 was an increase of $41,358. Masterise was incorporated in the BVI and under current law of the BVI, is not subject to tax on income. 22 Shenzhen Changhua was incorporated in the PRC and is subject to PRC income tax which is computed according to the relevant laws and regulations in the PRC. The income tax rate has been 25%. No income tax expense has been provided by Shenzhen Changhua as it has only started to generated revenue at the end of fiscal year and it has incurred losses. Other Income/(Expenses) Other expenses for the years ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 were $225,376 and $344,082 respectively. Comparing with prior year, the other expenses were reduced by $118,706 or 34.5%. There were no substantial changes in other income/expenses except the added in government grants and interest on lease liabilities. During the year ended 31 October 2020, the Company was awarded a government grant equivalent to US$125,806 by the government of Shenzhen Longgang District where our facilities are located. The grant was a Biomedical Incentive Award recognizing the Companys achievement of obtaining a Class III medical device permit from Chinas NMPA. Net Loss As reflected in the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements, the Company has an accumulated deficit of $10,256,364 at October 31, 2020 that includes a net loss of $672,000 for the year ended October 31, 2020. We started to generate revenue at the end of 2019 fiscal year from inception, but our marketing campaign was disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Revenue income from our PA Screws sales was not sufficient to meet operating expenses for the upkeep of the Company and the clinical trials. Liquidity and Capital Resources We had a working capital deficit of $7,533,045 at October 31, 2020 compared to a working capital deficit of $6,577,273 as of October 31, 2019. Our working capital deficit increased as a result of the fact that we only started to market of our NMPA approved PA Screw in China at the end of 2019 fiscal year, and the company has to put resources to market its products, complete the clinical trials of other products. Although we began to generate revenues at the end of 2019 fiscal year, the first time in the Companys history, our marketing campaign was disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the revenue income was not sufficient. Our main source of financing during the year came in the form of PA Screws sales and loan from our related parties and stockholders. Cash Flows Net Cash Generated from Operating Activities Net cash generated from operating activities was $646,660 in the year ended October 31, 2020. This amount was attributable primarily to the net loss after adjustment for non-cash items, such as depreciation and imputed interest on advances from directors. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities We recorded $30,706 net cash used in investing activities in the year ended October 31, 2020. This amount reflected purchases of property and equipment, primarily for research and development to our facilities. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities in the year ended October 31, 2020 was $427,821, which represented advances from related parties. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements Our ability to continue as a going concern and support the commercialization of current products is dependent upon our ability to obtain additional financing in the near term. We anticipate that such funding will be in the form of marketing of our products and equity financing from sales of our common stock. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient funding from the sale of our products and common stock to fund our business plan should we decide to proceed. We anticipate our sales revenue will not meet our financial needs in 2021 and we need to rely on advances from our related parties and stockholders in order to continue to fund our business operations We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents at October 31, 2020, will be insufficient to meet our cash needs. The management is actively marketing its product, pursuing additional funding and strategic partners, which will enable the Company to implement our business plan, business strategy, to continue research and development, manufacturing and marketing our products, clinical trials or further development that may arise. 23 Going Concern As reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company has an accumulated deficit of $10,256,364 as of October 31, 2020 that includes a net loss of $672,000 for the year ended October 31, 2020. The Companys total current liabilities exceed its total current assets by $7,533,045. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In view of the matters described above, recoverability of a major portion of the recorded asset amounts shown in the accompanying balance sheet is dependent upon continued operations of the Company, which in turn is dependent upon the Companys ability to generating revenue, raise additional capital, obtain financing and succeed in its future operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Management has taken steps to revise its operating and financial requirements, which it believes are sufficient to provide the Company with the ability to continue as a going concern. The Company is now marketing its products, pursuing additional funding and potential merger or acquisition candidates, which would enhance stockholders investment. Management believes that the above actions will allow the Company to continue operations through the next fiscal year. As of October 31, 2020, loans from the Companys stockholder, three directors, three related parties and a non-related third party totaling $5,893,651 were provided to us for use as working capital. Management believes that such financing will allow us to continue operations through the next fiscal year. The Company is also actively pursuing a number of private placements funding which would ensure continued operations. The Company launched the sales campaign for its NMPA approved PA Screws at the end of fiscal year ended October 31, 2019 and continuously generated revenue since then. The Company believes its revenue will gradually increase during 2021. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to our investors. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including but not limited to those related to income taxes and impairment of long-lived assets. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions and factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Based on our ongoing review, we plan to adjust to our judgments and estimates where facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results could differ from our estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require our managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. 1. Property and equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Expenditures for additions, major renewals and betterments are capitalized and expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis, less estimated residual value over the assets estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives of the assets are 5 years. 24 2. Long-lived assets In accordance with FASB Codification Topic 360 (ASC Topic 360), Accounting for the impairment or disposal of Long-Lived Assets, long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets held and used by the Company are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. For purposes of evaluating the recoverability of long-lived assets, the recoverability test is performed using undiscounted net cash flows related to the long-lived assets. The Company reviews long-lived assets to determine that carrying values are not impaired. Long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of the asset may not be recoverable. Impairment of the carrying value of long-lived assets would be indicated if the best estimate of future undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset grouping is less than its carrying value. If an impairment is indicated, any loss is measured as the difference between estimated fair value and carrying value and is recognized in operating income. For the years ended October 31, 2020 and 2019, the company has not recognized any impairment charges. 3. Fair value of financial instruments FASB Codification Topic 825(ASC Topic 825), Disclosure About Fair Value of Financial Instruments, requires certain disclosures regarding the fair value of financial instruments. The carrying amounts of other receivables and prepaid expenses, other payables and accrued expenses, due to a stockholder, directors and related parties approximate their fair values because of the short-term nature of the instruments. The management of the Company is of the opinion that the Company is not exposed to significant interest or credit risks arising from these financial statements. 4. Government grant Government grants are recognized when there is reasonable assurance that the Company complies with any conditions attached to them and the grants will be received. 5. Revenue recognition Revenue from contract with customers is recognized when control of goods is transferred to a customer, at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods. Control is considered to be transferred when the customer has the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits of that good, generally on delivery of the goods. Revenues are generated from manufacturing and supply of biomaterial internal fixation devices, which are sold through its network of distributors/agents and direct sales channels. Our performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time. Our contracts have an anticipated duration of less than a year. Actual returns and claims in any future period are inherently uncertain and thus may differ from our estimates. If actual or expected future returns and claims are significantly greater or lower than the reserves that we have established, we will record a reduction or increase to net revenue in the period in which we make such a determination. 6. Income taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under the FASB Codification Topic 740-10-25 (ASC 740-10-25). Under ASC 740-10-25, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Under ASC 740-10-25, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized as income in the period included the enactment date. 25 7. Research and Development Research and development costs related to both present and future products are expensed as incurred. 8. Foreign currency translation The financial statements of the Companys subsidiary denominated in currencies other than US $ are translated into US $ using the closing rate method. The balance sheet items are translated into US $ using the exchange rates at the respective balance sheet dates. The capital and various reserves are translated at historical exchange rates prevailing at the time of the transactions while income and expenses items are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. All exchange differences are recorded within equity. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There has been no newly effective accounting pronouncement that has significance, or potential significance, to our consolidated financial statements. The Company has reviewed all recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements and does not believe the future adoptions of any such pronouncements may be expected to cause a material impact on the financial condition or the results of operations. The Company will carefully analyze these recently accounting pronouncements and take action to adopt them as required.