ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This section of the report includes a number of forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are often identified by words like: believe, expect, estimate, anticipate, intend, project and similar expressions, or words which, by their nature, refer to future events. You should not place undue certainty on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this annual report. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or our predictions. Overview The following discussion is an overview of the important factors that management focuses on in evaluating our businesses, financial condition and operating performance and should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of any number of factors, including those set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and elsewhere in our other public filings. Factors that may cause actual results, our performance or achievements, or industry results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements include without limitation: 1. The company's lack of funds in new R&D, especially in clinical testing; 2. The company's lack of funds in new equipment and the utilization of the production process after CFDA approval; 3. The company may need to seek funding through such vehicles as convertible notes and warrants, private placements, and/or convertible debentures; 4. The company needs funding for marketing and network build-up; 5. The company plans to seek approval for clinical testing and marketing on a worldwide basis, including US FDA approval for testing and marketing in the United States of America, and there is no guaranty that we will obtain any such approval; 6. While the company currently holds a patent originating in China, the patent does not protect our intellectual property in the United States, and the company is unsure of the validity of the patent in other countries. However, specific trade secrets are involved in the manufacturing of our product to help protect our technologies, and reverse engineering is unlikely for our types of products and technologies. Additionally, all machinery used to manufacture our products is protected by Chinese patents. The Company is subject to a number of risks similar to other companies in the medical device industry. These risks include rapid technological change, uncertainty of market acceptance of our products, uncertainty of regulatory approval, competition from substitute products from larger companies, the need to obtain additional financing, compliance with government regulations, protection of proprietary technology, product liability, and the dependence on key individuals. All written and oral forward-looking statements made in connection with this Form 10-K that are attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Given the uncertainties that surround such statements, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 13 Our Business We are engaged in the business of designing, developing, manufacturing and the planned future marketing of self-reinforced, re-absorbable biodegradable internal fixation devices. Our polyamide materials are protected by Patent no. ZL971190739, PRC, issued by the State Intellectual Property Office of the P.R.C., is used in producing screws, binding wires, rods and related products. These products are used in a variety of applications, which include orthopedic trauma, sports related medical treatment, or cartilage injuries, and reconstructive dental procedures. Our products are biodegradable internal fixation devices which are made of a very unique material called Polyamide ("PA"). Our PA products, such as screws, rods, and binding wires consist of enhanced fibers and high molecular polymers, which are designed to facilitate quick healing of complex fractures in many areas of the human skeletal system. Our products offer a number of significant advantages over existing metal implants and the first generation of degradable implants (i.e. PLLA) for patients, surgeons and other customers including: 1. A notably reduced need for a secondary surgery to remove implant due to post-operative complications, therefore avoiding unnecessary risk and expense on all patient care; 2. Enhancing the performance of the materials by manufacturing them to be easily fitted to each patient, forming an exact fit; 3. Improving the biological activity of materials. Clinical trial results have shown that as PA implants degrade, they promote a progressive shift of load to the new bone creating micro-motion and thereby avoiding bone atrophy due to 'stress shielding'; 4. Reducing the chance of post-operative infection; 5. Effectively controlling the degeneration speed, so that there will be no complications in treating repeat injuries; 6. Ease of post-operative care i.e. no distortion during x-ray imaging; 7. Simple and cost-effective to manufacture. Our products are designed to replace the traditional internal fixation device made of stainless steel and titanium and overcome the limitations of previous generations of products such as PLA and PLLA. Our laboratory statistics show that our PA products have a higher mechanical strength, last longer in degradation ratio and are more evenly absorbed form outer layer inwards as compared with similar materials such as PLA and PLLA. Thus PA allows increased restoration time for bone healing and re-growth. The Company's PA Degradable and Absorbable Screw ("PA Screw") and Degradable and Absorbable Binding Wire ("PA Binding Wire) are currently being tested in human trials under permit from the China Food and Drug Administration ("CFDA"). As of October 31, 2014, the Company completed 83 successful PA Screw trial cases, and 57 successful PA Binding Wire. Upon the completion of these trials the Company has already exceeded China CFDAs requirement on PA Screw trial. The Companys CFDA Application for its PA Screw is still in the CFDA Review Process. CFDA Application Process for PA Screws The Company first submitted its application for PA Screws to the CFDA, formally SFDA, in 2008. The application has been withheld by the CFDA pending additional clinical trial cases. This is due to the amended CFDA regulations, which unlike previous regulations require the applicant to specify the position on the body where the clinical trial is carried out. Our amended CFDA application has specified the ankle fracture as the body part of our clinical trial. This is because bones around this part carry most of the body weight. As of October 31, 2011, we have completed all additional clinical trials required by the CFDA with 100 percent success rate. As of October 31, 2014, the companys CFDA Application is still under the CFDA Review Process. In March 2013, The State Food and Drug Administration of the PRC (SFDA), Chinas medical device market regulatory agency, underwent a reorganization that saw much of China's food and drug regulatory powers consolidated into the agency, elevating it back to a ministerial-level agency directly under the State Council. The new name for the agency is China State Food and Drug Administration (CFDA). The name change meant the CFDA reports directly to Chinas State Council and has broader authority to oversee medical device as well as food and drug sectors. This reorganization leads to a more streamlined and efficient registration process for medical devices in China. Since the reorganization, the CFDA has issued series of circulars and guidelines to help applicants. Following the CFDA guidelines, the Company has improved its GMP facilities, updated its Technical Documentation System to cover key areas such as Clinical Trial, Manufacturing Process, R&D, Monitoring and Quality Control. Due to the uniqueness of our material, there are no established CFDA Product Standards that we can follow during our application process for our PA Screws. To establish our own Product Standards, the Company has been carrying out extra tests. The Company has submitted its Product Standards and supplementary reports to the CFDA in 2014. The Companys production lines are fully operational. We have been producing products for further researches, testing and product quality control improvements. Following the CFDA final approval, the company will be earning revenues in the same quarter upon when its application is approved. However, we are not able to anticipate the timeline for completion of the CFDA Review Process the CFDA Review Process. Clinical Trials on Other Products Currently, we have been conducting clinical trials for PA Binding Wires at the 6 state level hospitals authorized by the CFDA in cities throughout China, including Nanchang, Changsha, Luoyang, Nanning and Tianjin. We have successfully completed all 60 clinical human trial cases required by the CFDA, and we have completed 42 comparison cases. CFDA regulations require each successful clinical trial case to be accompanied by a trial case that uses a different product for comparison reasons. We intended to start CFDA Application Process for our PA Binding Wires when we complete the remaining 18 comparison cases. 14 The Company has setup a joint research project with Sichuan University. The Company has completed the design and production of testing mini-screws using its patented PA material. This project is currently under way. The Company is studying and test-producing Class II devices using our patented material on current production lines. Class II devices are generally subject to a lower level of regulatory control than Class III devices such as our PA Screws. The Company also plans to expend its GMP facilities in 2015. However, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to obtain any further clearances or approvals, if required, to market its products for their intended uses on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, regulatory approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. Delays in the receipt of or the failure to obtain such clearances or approvals, the need for additional clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, unfavorable limitations or conditions of approval, or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Government Regulation Medical implant devices/products manufactured or marketed by the company in China are subject to extensive regulations by the CFDA. Pursuant to the related laws and acts, as amended, and the regulations promulgated there under (the "CFDA Regulations"), the CFDA regulates the clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution and promotion of medical devices. The CFDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement, or refund of the cost of any device manufactured or distributed by the Company. Under the CFDA Regulations, medical devices are classified into three classes (class I, II or III), the basis of the controls deemed necessary by the CFDA to reasonably assure their safety and efficacy. Under the CFDA's regulations, class I devices are subject to general controls [for example, labeling and adherence to Good Manufacturing Practices ("GMP") requirements] and class II devices are subject to general and special controls. Generally, class III devices are those, which must receive premarket approval by the CFDA to ensure their safety and efficacy (for example, life-sustaining, life-supporting and certain implantable devices, or new devices which have not been found substantially equivalent to legally marketed class I or class II devices). The Company is classified as a manufacturer of class III medical devices. Current CFDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. Before a new device can be introduced into the market in China, the manufacturer generally must obtain CFDA marketing clearance through clinical trials. Since the company is classified as a manufacturer of Class III medical devices, the company must carry out all clinical trials in pre-selected CFDA approved hospitals. Manufacturers of medical devices for marketing in China are required to adhere to GMP requirements. Enforcement of GMP requirements has increased significantly in the last several years and the CFDA has publicly stated that compliance will be more strictly scrutinized. From time to time the CFDA has made changes to the GMP and other requirements that increase the cost of compliance. Changes in existing laws or requirements or adoption of new laws or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the company will not incur significant costs to comply with applicable laws and requirements in the future or that applicable laws and requirements will not have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulations regarding the development, manufacturing and sale of the company's products are subject to change. The company cannot predict the impact, if any, that such changes might have on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Results of Operations The Results of Operations discussed in this section merely reflect the information and results of Masterise and Shenzhen Changhua for the years ended October 31, 2014 and 2013. Revenues The Company is in its development stage and does not have any revenue. The management team is continuously looking for fundraising possibilities for product improvement, machinery upgrades, facility expansions, continuous research and development, and sales and marketing preparation. Our facility is located in Shenzhen, China, which is built to meet the GMP standards. Our facility covers about 865 square meters, which includes the combined facilities of offices, laboratories, and workshops. There is one production line for the PA Screw and another production line for the PA Binding Wire. The annual production capabilities of each production line are 100,000 pieces for PA Screw, and 240,000 packs for the PA Binding Wires. Both production lines, at their maximum production capacities are capable of generating approximately $30,000,000 in annual revenue. 15 Estimate current production lines in full capacity Output Quantity (Max.) Price at ex-factory (US$) Total Turnover (US$) PA Screw 100,000 (piece) 180 18,000,000 PA Binding Wire 240,000 (pack) 50 12,000,000 Total: 30,000,000 The Company will market its products through a hybrid sales force comprised of a managed network of independent regional distributors/sales agents (80%) and direct sales representatives (20%) in China. There are two ways the company will generate revenue, 1) through our nationwide and regional distributors and 2) through our direct sales channels. Funding Needs The Company estimates that it will need to raise minimum $750,000 over the next 12 months to bring its current products to market, and begin earning revenues. This amount may increase if we decide to start clinical trials on new products. Once we receive the CFDA permit for our PA Screw, our revenue will cover our expenditures. Otherwise, we will continue to rely on external investments and shareholder's loans to meet our cash needs. While the Company has no outside sources of funding, the Companys shareholders have committed to advance the Company funds as needed. There is a Letter of Continuing Financial Support signed between the Company and two of its major shareholders and related party, Titan Technology Development Ltd, Ms. Hui WANG and Mr. Chi Fung Yu. China's Marketing Analysis and Sales Strategy We have established long term relationships with many hospitals and national distributors in China. Ms. Hui WANG , the Company's CEO, has over 20 years sales experience in medical distribution. She will be in charge of our sales programs. Professor LIU, Shangli, our chief medical advisor for Greater China, is one of the highest ranked orthopedic doctors in China as well as being highly renowned in the rest of the world. He will assist the Company in nationwide product promotion and joint projects with associated academic institutions and medical schools. During product development and clinical trial stages we developed close relationships with many major national hospitals. We expect these relationships to boost our revenue generation following CFDA final approval. In order to better serve our customers, including hospitals, distributors, patients and the general public, the Company will set up Regional Service Offices to provide technical support, product information, and customer aid service. China's market for PA devices depends on 3 major conditions: - Patients - Advanced technology level - Performance and price of the materials The demand for internal fixation medical devices has rapidly increased during the last decade. According to China Health Care Year Book 2013, the total revenue of Chinese orthopaedic hospitals in 2013 was US$1.28 billion with over 11.5 million patients. From 2009 to 2013, the market size of Chinas orthopaedic devices has grown from US$1.1 billion to US$1.92 billion, and it is estimated to reach US$2.17 billion in 2014. The market size for trauma treatment implant devices such as our PA Screw and PA Wire was US$626.3 million or 32.6% of the total market value in 2013, and it is estimated to grow to US$1.164 billion in 2019. New and improved medical technology will continue to rapidly grow throughout hospitals in China, and material optimization and product pricing is expected to directly stimulate increased sales. The Company has advantages and more opportunities over others competitors due to: - No other similar patent registrations in China. - We are the only company qualified and permitted to perform PA clinical trials by the CFDA - We have a timing advantage over other companies in China, which would have to go through the preclinical testing for the CFDA permit on clinical trials. - Under new regulations by the CFDA, it will take at least 5-10 years for clinical trials. - Our patented material will enable us to rapidly diversify our product line according to market trend and demand. 16 Number of Hospitals in China in year 2014 Statistic and Census report by the National Health and Family Planning Commission of the People's Republic of China. Statistic and Census report by National Health and Family Planning Commission of the People's Republic of China (November 2014) November 2014 November 2013 Increase / (Decrease) Total No. of Hospitals 25,509 24,470 1,039 Public Hospital 13,343 13,441 (98 ) Private Hospital 12,166 11,029 1,137 Hospital Rating AAA 1,898 1,738 160 AA 6,807 6,692 115 A 6,853 6,385 468 In general, technological advancements and the marketing potential within Asia are the biggest factors in driving significant growth within the global orthopedic devices market. Another major factor that positively influences this market is the growing number of aging baby boomers with active lifestyles. This sector represents a large portion of the total population. Research and Development Research and development costs related to both present and future products are expensed as incurred. Total expenditure on research and development charged to general and administrative expenses for the years ended October 31, 2014 and 2013 was $47,700 and $30,749. We expect research and development expenses to grow as we continue to invest in basic research, clinical trials, product development and in our intellectual property. Pre-Market Research The Company has been conducting Pre-Market Research while its PA Screw Application is under CFDA review. The research is intended to estimate the potential market success of the companys products that can be expected. The research also looks beyond the Companys initial market - China, and covers international markets. Based on the results of our Pre-Market Research and the positive feedbacks, we have received from trade shows and industrial conferences, it is the Companys intention to apply for additional international regulatory approvals in due course. Finance Costs As of October 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company owed $459,131 and $349,911 respectively to a stockholder Titan Technology Development Limited, which is unsecured and repayable on demand. Interest is charged at 7% per annum on the amount owed. As of October 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company owed $1,618,333 and $1,395,501 respectively to Chi Fung Yu, $1,370,405 and $871,415 respectively to Tie Jun Chen, which are unsecured and repayable on demand. Interest is charged at 7% per annum on the amount owed. Total interest expenses on advances from a stockholder accrued for the year ended October 31, 2014 and October 31, 2013 are $26,081 and $20,755 for Titan Technology Development Limited. Total interest expenses on advances from following related parties accrued for the year ended October 31, 2014 and October 31, 2013 are $87,351 and $66,844 for Chi Fung Yu; $67,961 and $49,903 for Tie Jun Chen. As of October 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company owed the following amounts respectively to two directors for advances made - $382,280 and $435,344 to Hui Wang , $20,230 and $20,230 to Chi Ming Yu. These advances were made on an unsecured basis, repayable on demand and interest free. Imputed interest charged at 5% per annum on the amounts owed to two directors for the year ended October 31, 2014 and 2013 respectively is $20,079 and $22,936 for Hui Wang ; $0 and $0 for Chi Ming Yu. On November 10, 2014, the Company received cash advance from a related party, Tie Jun Chen, amounted to RMB250,000 (equivalent to approximately $41,000). 17 On November 28, 2014, the Company received cash advance from a related party, Chi Fung Yu, amounted to RMB250,000 (equivalent to approximately $41,000). On December 12, 2014, the Company received cash advance from a related party, Tie Jun Chen, amounted to RMB300,000 (equivalent to approximately $49,000). On January 20, 2015, the Company received cash advance from a related party, Chi Fung Yu, amounted to RMB250,000 (equivalent to approximately $41,000). Income Tax ABMT was incorporated in the United States and has incurred net operating loss for income tax purposes for 2014 and 2013. ABMT has net operating loss carry forwards for income taxes amounting to approximately $1,512,723 and $1,423,563 as of October 31, 2014 and 2013 respectively which may be available to reduce future years taxable income. These carry forwards, will expire, if not utilized, commencing in 2029. Management believes that the realization of the benefits from these losses appears uncertain due to the Companys limited operating history and continuing losses. Accordingly, a full, deferred tax asset valuation allowance has been provided and no deferred tax asset benefit has been recorded. The valuation allowance at October 31, 2014 and 2013 was $514,326 and $484,011 respectively. The net change in the valuation allowance for 2014 was an increase of $30,315. Masterise was incorporated in the BVI and under current law of the BVI, is not subject to tax on income. Shenzhen Changhua was incorporated in the PRC and is subject to PRC income tax which is computed according to the relevant laws and regulations in the PRC. The income tax rate has been charged at 25%. No income tax expense has been provided by Shenzhen Changhua as it is waiting for CFDA approval and it has incurred losses. Net Loss As reflected in the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements, the Company has an accumulated deficit of $5,400,107 at October 31, 2014 that includes a net loss of $827,756 for the year ended October 31, 2014. We are in Clinical Trial phase and do not have a CFDA permit to produce, market or sell in China. We therefore do not have any revenue from inception to October 31, 2014 but have to incur operating expenses for the upkeep of the Company and the clinical trials. Liquidity and Capital Resources We had a working capital deficit of $3,863,028 at October 31, 2014 compared to a working capital deficit of $3,062,153 as of October 31, 2013. Our working capital deficit increased as a result of the fact that we are in clinical trial phase, the company has put all resources to complete the clinical trials. We do not have a CFDA permit to produce, market or sell in China. We had no revenues during the year and that our sole source of financing came in the form of loans from our related parties and stockholders. Cash Flows Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $732,421 in the year ended October 31, 2014. This amount was attributable primarily to the net loss after adjustment for non-cash items, such as depreciation and imputed interest on advances from directors. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities We recorded $23,802 net cash used in investing activities in the year ended October 31, 2014. This amount reflected purchases of property and equipment, primarily for research and development to our facilities. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities in the year ended October 31, 2014 was $782,228, which represented advances from related parties. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements Our ability to continue as a going concern and support the commercialization of current products is dependent upon our ability to obtain additional financing in the near term. We anticipate that such funding will be in the form of equity financing from sales of our common stock. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient funding from the sale of our common stock to fund our business plan should we decide to proceed. We anticipate continuing to rely on advances from our related parties and stockholders in order to continue to fund our business operations We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents at October 31, 2014, will be insufficient to meet our cash needs. The management is actively pursuing additional funding and strategic partners, which will enable the Company to implement our business plan, business strategy, to continue research and development, clinical trials or further development that may arise. 18 Going Concern As reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company has an accumulated deficit of $5,400,107 as of October 31, 2014 that includes a net loss of $827,756 for the year ended October 31, 2014. The Companys total current liabilities exceed its total current assets by $3,863,028 and the Company used cash in operations of $732,421. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In view of the matters described above, recoverability of a major portion of the recorded asset amounts shown in the accompanying balance sheet is dependent upon continued operations of the Company, which in turn is dependent up the Company's ability to raise additional capital, obtain financing and succeed in its future operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Management has taken steps to revise its operating and financial requirements, which it believes are sufficient to provide the Company with the ability to continue as a going concern. The Company is now pursuing additional funding and potential merger or acquisition candidates, which would enhance stockholders' investment. Management believes that the above actions will allow the Company to continue operations through the next fiscal year. As of October 31, 2014, loans from the Company's stockholder, two directors, a related company and two related parties totaling $3,850,379 were provided to us for use as working capital. Management believes that such financing will allow us to continue operations through the next fiscal year. The Company is also actively pursuing a number of private placements funding which would ensure continued operations. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to our investors. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including but not limited to those related to income taxes and impairment of long-lived assets. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions and factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Based on our ongoing review, we plan to adjust to our judgments and estimates where facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results could differ from our estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require our management's most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. 1. Property and equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Expenditures for additions, major renewals and betterments are capitalized and expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis, less estimated residual value over the assets estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives of the assets are 5 years. 2. Long-lived assets In accordance with FASB Codification Topic 360 (ASC Topic 360), Accounting for the impairment or disposal of Long-Lived Assets", long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets held and used by the Company are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. For purposes of evaluating the recoverability of long-lived assets, the recoverability test is performed using undiscounted net cash flows related to the long-lived assets. The Company reviews long-lived assets to determine that carrying values are not impaired. Long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of the asset may not be recoverable. Impairment of the carrying value of long-lived assets would be indicated if the best estimate of future undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset grouping is less than its carrying value. If an impairment is indicated, any loss is measured as the difference between estimated fair value and carrying value and is recognized in operating income. For the year ended October 31, 2014 and 2013, the company has not recognized any impairment charges. 19 3. Fair value of financial instruments FASB Codification Topic 825 (ASC Topic 825), "Disclosure About Fair Value of Financial Instruments," requires certain disclosures regarding the fair value of financial instruments. The carrying amounts of other receivables and prepaid expenses, other payables and accrued expenses, due to a stockholder, directors and related parties approximate their fair values because of the short-term nature of the instruments. The management of the Company is of the opinion that the Company is not exposed to significant interest or credit risks arising from these financial statements. 4. Income taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under the FASB Codification Topic 740-10-25 (ASC 740-10-25). Under ASC 740-10-25, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Under ASC 740-10-25, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized as income in the period included the enactment date. 5. Research and Development Research and development costs related to both present and future products are expensed as incurred. 6. Foreign currency translation The financial statements of the Companys subsidiary denominated in currencies other than US $ are translated into US $ using the closing rate method. The balance sheet items are translated into US $ using the exchange rates at the respective balance sheet dates. The capital and various reserves are translated at historical exchange rates prevailing at the time of the transactions while income and expenses items are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. All exchange differences are recorded within equity. Recent Accounting Pronouncements On June 10, 2014, FASB issued a new accounting standard that reduces disclosure and reporting requirements for development stage entities. Among other things, development stage entities will no longer be required to report inception-to-date information. The change will be effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2014, with early adoption permitted. The Company has elected to early adopt these amendments. In August 2014, FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-15 Preparation of Financial Statements Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40), Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. Under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), continuation of a reporting entity as a going concern is presumed as the basis for preparing financial statements unless and until the entitys liquidation becomes imminent. Preparation of financial statements under this presumption is commonly referred to as the going concern basis of accounting. If and when an entitys liquidation becomes imminent, financial statements should be prepared under the liquidation basis of accounting in accordance with Subtopic 205-30, Presentation of Financial StatementsLiquidation Basis of Accounting. Even when an entitys liquidation is not imminent, there may be conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entitys ability to continue as a going concern. In those situations, financial statements should continue to be prepared under the going concern basis of accounting, but the amendments in this Update should be followed to determine whether to disclose information about the relevant conditions and events. The amendments in this Accounting Standards Update are effective for the annual period ending after December 15, 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter. Early application is permitted. The Company will evaluate the going concern considerations in this ASU, however, at the current period, management does not believe that it has met conditions which would subject these financial statements for additional disclosure.