Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents incorporated by reference herein, if any, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefore, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015, as well as other cautionary language in such Annual Report and this Quarterly Report, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Business Overview Geospace Technologies Corporation is a Texas corporation originally incorporated in Delaware on September 27, 1994. Unless otherwise specified, the discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refers to Geospace Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. We design and manufacture instruments and equipment used in the acquisition and processing of seismic data as well as in the characterization and monitoring of producing oil and gas reservoirs. Demand for our products has been, and will likely continue to be, vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the oil and gas industry in general. For more information, please refer to the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015. We have engaged in the seismic instrument and equipment business since 1980 and market our products primarily to the oil and gas industry. We also design, manufacture and distribute non-seismic equipment including thermal imaging equipment and industrial products. We report and categorize our customers and products into two different segments: Seismic and Non-Seismic. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SECs public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on their public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on our website at http://www.geospace.com. From time to time, we may post investor presentations on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or posted in the future, is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 15 Products and Produ ct Development Seismic Products Our seismic business segment has historically accounted for the majority of our revenue. Geoscientists use seismic data primarily in connection with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves to map potential and known hydrocarbon bearing formations and the geologic structures that surround them. Our seismic product lines currently consist of land and marine nodal data acquisition systems, permanent land and seabed reservoir monitoring products and services, geophones and geophone strings, hydrophones, leader wire, connectors, telemetry cables, marine streamer retrieval and steering devices and various other products. Our seismic products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. We believe that our seismic products are among the most technologically advanced instruments and equipment available for seismic data acquisition. Traditional Products An energy source and a data recording system are combined to acquire seismic data. We provide many of the components of seismic data recording systems, including geophones, hydrophones, multi-component sensors, leader wire, geophone strings, connectors, seismic telemetry cables and other seismic related products. On land, our customers use geophones, leader wire, cables and connectors to receive and measure seismic reflections resulting from an energy source into data recording units, which store the seismic information for subsequent processing and analysis. In the marine environment, large ocean-going vessels tow long seismic cables known as streamers containing hydrophones which are used to detect pressure changes. Hydrophones transmit electrical impulses back to the vessels data recording unit where the seismic data is stored for subsequent processing and analysis. Our marine seismic products help steer streamers while being towed and help recover streamers if they become disconnected from the vessel. Our seismic sensor, cable and connector products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. Sales result primarily from seismic contractors purchasing our products as components of new seismic data acquisition systems or to repair and replace components of seismic data acquisition systems already in use. Our products used in marine seismic data acquisition include our marine seismic streamer retrieval devices (SRDs). Occasionally, streamer cables are severed and become disconnected from the vessel as a result of obstacles, inclement weather, vessel traffic or human error. Our SRDs, which are attached to the streamer cables, contain air bags which are designed to inflate automatically at a given water depth, bringing the severed streamer cables to the surface. These SRDs save the seismic contractors significant time and money compared to the alternative of losing the streamer cable. We also produce seismic streamer steering devices, or birds, which are fin-like devices that attach to the streamer cable. These birds help maintain the streamer cable at a certain desired depth as it is being towed through the water. Our wholly-owned subsidiary in the Russian Federation manufactures international standard geophones, sensors, seismic leader wire, seismic telemetry cables and related seismic products for customers in the Russian Federation and other international seismic marketplaces. We have a branch office in Colombia that primarily rents seismic equipment to our customers in the South American market. Wireless Products We have developed a land-based wireless (or nodal) seismic data acquisition system called the GSX. Each GSX station operates independently and therefore can be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations. Rather than utilizing interconnecting cables as required by most traditional land data acquisition systems, each GSX station operates as an independent data collection system. As a result, our GSX system requires less maintenance, which we believe allows our customers to operate more effectively and efficiently because of its reduced environmental impact, lower weight and ease of operation. Our GSX system is designed into configurations ranging from one to four channels per station. Since its introduction in 2008 and through March 31, 2016, we have sold 332,000 GSX channels and we have 130,000 GSX channels in our rental fleet. Due to depressed seismic industry conditions, we do not expect to expand our GSX rental fleet in the foreseeable future. We have also developed a marine-based wireless seismic data acquisition system called the OBX. Similar to our GSX land-based wireless system, the marine OBX system can be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations and does not require interconnecting cables between each station. Our deep water versions of the OBX system can be deployed in depths of up to 3,450 meters. Through March 31, 2016, we have sold 460 OBX stations and we have 5,100 OBX stations in our rental fleet. 16 Reservoir Products Seismic surveys repeated over selected time intervals show dynamic changes within the reservoir and can be used to monitor the effects of oil and gas production. In this regard, we have developed permanently installed high-definition reservoir monitoring systems for land and ocean-bottom applications in producing oil and gas fields. We also produce a retrievable version of our ocean-bottom system for use on fields where permanently installed systems are not appropriate or economical. Utilizing these tools, producers can enhance the recovery of oil and gas deposits over the life of a reservoir. Our high-definition reservoir monitoring products include the HDSeis product line and a suite of borehole and reservoir monitoring products and services. Our HDSeis system is a high-definition seismic data acquisition system with flexible architecture that allows it to be configured as a borehole seismic system or as a subsurface system for both land and marine reservoir-monitoring projects. The scalable architecture of the HDSeis system enables custom designed system configuration for applications ranging from low-channel engineering and environmental-scale surveys requiring a minimum number of recording channels to high-channel surveys required to efficiently conduct permanent reservoir imaging and monitoring. Modular architecture allows virtually unlimited channel expansion. In addition, multi-system synchronization features make the HDSeis system well suited for multi-well or multi-site acquisition, simultaneous surface and downhole acquisition and continuous reservoir monitoring projects. Reservoir monitoring requires special purpose or custom designed systems in which portability becomes less critical and functional reliability assumes greater importance. This reliability factor helps assure successful operations in inaccessible locations over a considerable period of time. Additionally, reservoirs located in deep water or harsh environments require special instrumentation and new techniques to maximize recovery. Reservoir monitoring also requires high-bandwidth, high-resolution seismic data for engineering project planning and reservoir management. We believe our HDSeis system and tools, designed for cost-effective deployment and lifetime performance, will make borehole and seabed seismic acquisition a cost-effective and reliable process for the challenges of reservoir monitoring. Our multi-component seismic product developments include an omni-directional geophone for use in reservoir monitoring, a compact marine three-component or four-component gimbaled sensor and special-purpose connectors, connector arrays and cases. We have not delivered nor did we receive orders for any permanent reservoir monitoring systems during fiscal year 2015 or during the first six months of fiscal year 2016. In addition, we produce seismic borehole acquisition systems which employ a fiber optic augmented wireline capable of very high data transmission rates. These systems are used for several reservoir monitoring applications, including an application pioneered by us allowing operators and service companies to monitor and measure the results of fracturing operations. Non-Seismic Products Our non-seismic businesses leverage upon our existing manufacturing facilities and engineering capabilities. We have found that many of our seismic products, with little or no modification, have direct application to industries beyond those involved in oil and gas exploration and development. For example, our customers utilize our seismic borehole tools to monitor subsurface carbon dioxide injections and for mine safety applications. Our non-seismic products include thermal imaging products targeted at the commercial graphics industry as well as various industrial products including (i) sensors and tools for vibration monitoring, mine safety application and earthquake detection, (ii) cables for power and communication for the offshore oil and gas and offshore construction industries, and (iii) water meter cables and other specialty cable and connector products. 17 Consolidated Results of Operatio ns We report and evaluate financial information for two segments: Seismic and Non-Seismic. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 Seismic Traditional exploration product revenue $ 3,205 $ 9,569 $ 8,192 $ 17,290 Wireless exploration product revenue 4,714 12,085 6,604 17,779 Reservoir product revenue 582 1,127 1,279 3,305 Total revenue 8,501 22,781 16,075 38,374 Operating loss (11,834 ) (5,744 ) (23,969 ) (13,129 ) Non-Seismic Revenue 6,287 5,019 11,720 10,450 Operating income 848 502 1,410 1,360 Corporate Revenue 143 142 273 284 Operating loss (3,001 ) (3,307 ) (6,120 ) (6,668 ) Consolidated Totals Revenue 14,931 27,942 28,068 49,108 Operating loss (13,987 ) (8,549 ) (28,679 ) (18,437 ) Overview Early in calendar year 2014, we began to experience a softening in the demand for our seismic exploration products, particularly in North America, as capital budgets for oil and gas producers were trending away from exploration-focused activities toward production and exploitation activities. During this period oil production in North Americas unconventional shale reservoirs increased, as did oil production from other non-OPEC countries, resulting in an oversupply of crude oil in the world market. Market prices for a barrel of crude oil declined from over $100 in July 2014 to approximately $45 today. With the decline in oil and natural gas prices, oil and gas exploration and production companies experienced a significant reduction in cash flows, which resulted in sharp reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic activities. In addition, we have not received any orders for permanent reservoir monitoring systems since the Statoil order was completed in April 2014. We expect sales of our seismic products, and in particular our traditional and wireless products, to remain low until crude oil prices stabilize at higher levels and exploration-focused industry conditions improve. We expect these challenging industry conditions to negatively impact the demand for our seismic products throughout fiscal year 2016 and beyond. In January 2016, in light of the decrease in demand for our seismic products, we initiated a program to further reduce our operating costs. The program is expected to produce approximately $7 million of annualized cash savings in addition to savings from other cost-saving measures implemented in the first fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2015. The majority of savings was realized through a reduction of over 150 employees from our Houston-area workforce. In connection with the workforce reduction, the Company incurred $1.0 million of termination costs in its second fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2016, which are recorded to both cost of goods sold and to operating expenses. The remaining cost savings were realized through a facility consolidation as well as expense reductions in other areas. Three and six months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three and six months ended March 31, 2015 Consolidated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2016 decreased $13.0 million, or 46.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated revenue for the six months ended March 31, 2016 decreased $21.0 million, or 42.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in revenue for the three and six months ended March 31, 2016 was primarily attributable to substantially lower product demand in our seismic business segment driven by the substantial decline in oil and gas prices. 18 Consolidated gross profit (loss) for the three months ended March 31, 201 6 was ($ 4. 6) million, compared to $1.4 million for the corresponding period of prior fiscal year. Consolidated gross profit (loss) f or the six months ended March 31, 2016 was ($11.0) million, compared to $1.4 million for the corresponding period of prior fiscal year. The change in gross profit (loss) for the three and six months ended March 31, 2016 was caused by a number of factors, i ncluding (i) a sales mix containing a concentration of lower-margin products , (ii) fixed depreciation expenses from our rental equipment during periods of low utilization, (iii) unabsorbed fixed manufacturing costs due to lower factory utilization caused b y reduced demand for our seismic products and ( i v) increased inventory obsolescence expenses due to higher levels of slow-moving inventories. We expect our seismic product gross margins to be lower throughout fiscal year 2016 due to expected lower manufac turing activity caused by reduced seismic product demand. In light of current market conditions, we have evaluated the level of our inventories at March 31, 2016 and we continue to believe that our inventory balances far exceed levels considered appropriate for the current level of product demand, although we do expect inventory levels to continue to decline slowly throughout fiscal year 2016. During such periods of excessive inventory levels, our policy has been, and will continue to be, to record higher obsolescence expense in our consolidated income statement as we experience reduced levels of inventory turnover and as our inventories continue to age. Due to weak product demand which is expected to continue into the foreseeable future, we expect significantly higher levels of inventory obsolescence expense during fiscal year 2016 and beyond until product demand and resulting inventory turnover returns to acceptable levels. Consolidated operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2016 decreased $0.6 million, or 5.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated operating expenses for the six months ended March 31, 2016 decreased $2.1 million, or 10.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating expenses for both periods is attributable to the Companys cost reduction program implemented during the three months ended March 31, 2016, and such reductions are partially offset by $0.5 million of termination costs associated with the program. For the six months ended March 31, 2016, the decrease in operating expenses also reflects the collection of past due accounts receivable from a seismic customer, which resulted in a net bad debt recovery of $0.6 million compared to a bad debt expense of $1.0 million from the corresponding period of the prior year. Consolidated other income for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased $0.1 million, or 23.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in other income primarily resulted from an increase in foreign exchange gains attributable to U.S. dollar deposits held by our Russian subsidiary. Consolidated other income for the six months ended March 31, 2016 decreased $1.2 million, or 61.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in other income primarily resulted from a decrease in foreign exchange gains attributable to U.S. dollar deposits held by our Russian subsidiary. Our effective tax rates for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were (17.4)% and (34.9)%, respectively. Our effective tax rates for the six months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were (21.1)% and (35.2)%, respectively. The United States statutory rate for the same periods was 35%. The lower effective tax rates were caused by (i) the provision of a valuation allowance against our Canadian subsidiarys deferred tax assets of $0.5 million and $2.5 million, respectively, for the three months and six months ended March 31, 2016, to fully offset the value of its deferred tax assets, and (ii) a net adjustment totaling $1.2 million and $1.0 million, respectively, for the three months and six months ended March 31, 2016 to correct our fiscal year 2015 income tax benefit. We have concluded that the tax correction was immaterial to our fiscal year 2015 financial statements and, therefore, such adjustments were reported in our financial statements for each of the periods ended March 31, 2016. 19 Seismic Prod ucts Revenue Revenue from our seismic products for the three months ended March 31, 2016 decreased $14.3 million, or 62.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our seismic products for the six months ended March 31, 2016 decreased $22.3 million, or 58.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. In each of the product groups below, the decline in revenue resulted from lower demand for our seismic products due to the deterioration of industry conditions brought about by the substantial decline in oil and gas prices. The components of this decrease include the following: Traditional Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2016, revenue from our traditional products decreased $6.4 million, or 66.5% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the six months ended March 31, 2015, revenue from our traditional products decreased $9.1 million, or 52.6% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for both periods primarily reflects lower demand for most of our land and marine exploration products. Wireless Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2016, revenue from our GSX and OBX wireless products decreased by $7.4 million, or 61.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the six months ended March 31, 2016, revenue from our GSX and OBX wireless products decreased by $11.2 million, or 62.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The reduction in revenue for both periods reflect weak demand due to reduced seismic exploration projects and an over-abundance of unutilized customer-owned equipment in the marketplace. Rental revenue increased during each of the current year periods due to the commencement of a large OBX rental contract resulting in rental revenue of $3.3 million during the quarter. In addition, each of the prior year periods ended March 31, 2015 contained revenue of $3.0 million resulting from a non-refundable deposit received from a customer in connection with a cancelled OBX purchase order. Reservoir Product Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2016, revenue from our reservoir products decreased $0.5 million, or 48.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the six months ended March 31, 2016, revenue from our reservoir products decreased $2.0 million, or 61.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The revenue decrease for both periods resulted from lower borehole product sales and repairs. We have not delivered nor did we receive orders for any permanent reservoir monitoring systems during fiscal year 2015 or during the first six months of fiscal year 2016. We continue to actively market these products to our customers. During the six months ended March 31, 2016, demand for our seismic products has fallen to historic lows. In past periods when customer demand for our seismic products was greater, especially demand for large orders for our GSX wireless systems and our seabed permanent reservoir monitoring systems, orders for such products would generally occur irregularly making it difficult for us to predict our sales and production levels each quarter. Furthermore, product shipping dates are generally determined by our customers and are not at our discretion. As a result, these factors have caused past sales of our seismic products to be unpredictable, or lumpy, and if demand were to resume to historical levels, we would expect this trend to continue. Operating Loss Our operating loss associated with revenue from our seismic products for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased $6.1 million, or 106.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior year. Our operating loss associated with revenue from our seismic products for the six months ended March 31, 2016 increased $10.8 million, or 82.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior year. The increase in operating loss for the three and six months ended March 31, 2016 was due to the substantial decline in our product revenue which, in turn, resulted in a substantially higher cost of revenue (as a percentage of total revenue) due to the factors described above. Non-Seismic Products Revenue Revenue from our non-seismic products for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased $1.3 million, or 25.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our non-seismic products for the six months ended March 31, 2016 increased $1.3 million, or 12.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue for both periods was primarily attributable to higher demand for our industrial products. The revenue increase for the six month period ended March 31, 2016 was partially offset by lower sales of our offshore cable products. 20 Operating Income Our operating income associated with sales of our non-seismic products for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased by $0.3 million, or 68.9%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Our operating income associated with sales of our non-seismic products for the six months ended March 31, 2016 increased by $0.1 million, or 3.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating income for the three and six months ended March 31, 2016 was primarily the result of increased sales of our industrial products. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2016, we had approximately $28.4 million in cash and cash equivalents and $14.9 million in short-term investments. For the six months ended March 31, 2016, we generated $4.4 million of cash in operating activities. Sources of cash included our net loss of $22.0 million which was offset by (i) net non-cash charges of $20.0 million from deferred income taxes, depreciation, accretion, stock-based compensation, inventory obsolescence and bad debts, (ii) a $9.9 million decrease in income tax receivable primarily resulting from an $18.3 million income tax refund received in our second quarter, (iii) a $4.6 decrease in trade accounts and notes receivable resulting from collections and a continued decline in our quarterly revenue and (iii) a $2.2 million decrease in inventories caused by a drawdown of our excess levels of finished goods. These sources of cash were partially offset by (i) a $2.6 million decrease in accounts payable primarily due to declining inventory purchases resulting from reduced product demand, (ii) a $4.5 million decrease in accrued and other expenses primarily due to a $3.5 million payment of calendar year 2015 property taxes and (iii) $1.4 million in excess tax expense associated with the vesting of restricted stock. For the six months ended March 31, 2016, we generated cash of $2.1 million from investing activities. These sources of cash included (i) $3.2 million in net proceeds from purchases of short-term investments and (ii) $0.2 million in proceeds from the sale of used rental equipment. These sources of cash were partially offset by (i) $0.8 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment and (ii) $0.5 million to expand our rental equipment fleet primarily for the addition of OBX nodes for delivery to a customer under a rental contract. In this regard, we periodically respond to various customer inquiries for additional OBX rental systems. If our customers require additional OBX rental systems from us, we may need to execute a non-cash transfer of additional OBX nodes and related equipment from our inventories to our rental fleet. In addition, we may need to partially or completely manufacture additional OBX nodes and related equipment if our finished goods inventories do not contain sufficient quantities of completed OBX products to meet the requested customer demand. In the absence of additional customer orders for OBX systems, we expect fiscal year 2016 cash investments in our rental fleet to be approximately $1.0 million and additional non-cash transfers from our inventory account of up to $3.0 million. We estimate total fiscal year 2016 cash investments in property, plant and equipment will be approximately $2.0 million. We expect these capital expenditures to be funded from our cash on hand, internal cash flow, or from borrowings under our credit agreement. For the six months ended March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015, we had no cash flows from financing activities. With the continued decline in oil and natural gas prices, exploration and production companies have experienced a significant reduction in cash flows resulting in sharp reductions in their capital spending budgets for exploration-focused activities, including seismic activities. As a result, our seismic business segment has experienced a significant decline in product orders and associated revenue, resulting in substantial operating losses and the continued depletion of our cash balances. Due to the uncertainty concerning a recovery of crude oil prices to levels capable of sustaining increased seismic exploration activities, we expect these depressed market conditions to continue through fiscal year 2016. Our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $43.3 million at March 31, 2016, including $7.1 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries. We intend to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. If we were to repatriate the cash held by our foreign subsidiaries, we would be required to accrue and pay income taxes in the United States. Our credit agreement allows for borrowings of up to $30.0 million with such amounts available for borrowing determined by a borrowing base. At March 31, 2016, we had no outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement and our borrowing availability under the credit facility was $29.9 million. At March 31, 2016, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement and we expect to remain in compliance with all covenants throughout fiscal year 2016. We currently do not anticipate the need to borrow from the credit agreement during fiscal year 2016; however, we can make no assurance that we will not do so. In March 2016, we received an $18.3 million income tax refund from the U.S. Department of Treasury. The refund was a result of the significant tax losses we experienced in fiscal year 2015 which we elected to carryback to our fiscal year 2013 U.S. tax return to recoup taxes previously paid. In addition, should we continue to incur significant pretax losses in fiscal year 2016, we will be eligible for an additional tax refund of up to approximately $13 million upon the filing of our fiscal year 2016 U.S. tax return. We believe the 21 combination of our existing cash balances, expected cash proceeds from executed rental contracts, short-term investments , future tax refunds and available borrowings under the credit agreement will be sufficient to finance our operating losses and planned capital expenditures for the next twelve months . Critical Accounting Policies During the six months ended March 31, 2016, there has been no material change to our critical accounting policies discussed in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015.