Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2021. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents incorporated by reference herein contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, could, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the adoption, results and success of our rollout of our Aquana smart water valves and cloud-based control platform, future demand for our Quantum security solutions, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, potential tenders for permanent reservoir monitoring systems, future demand for OBX systems, the completion of new orders for channels of our GCL system, the fulfillment of customer payment obligations, the impact of and the recovery from the impact of the coronavirus (or COVID-19) pandemic, the impact of the current armed conflict between Russia and Ukraine, our ability to manage changes and the continued health or availability of management personnel, volatility and direction of oil prices, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefor, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and the provision of accounting reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our current judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021, as well as other cautionary language in such Annual Report and this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Such examples include, but are not limited to, the failure of the Quantum and OptoSeis or Aquana technology transactions to yield positive operating results, decreases in commodity price levels, and continued adverse impact of COVID-19 which could reduce demand for our products, the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance (despite substantial investment by us), our sensitivity to short term backlog, delayed or cancelled customer orders, product obsolescence resulting from poor industry conditions or new technologies, bad debt write-offs associated with customer accounts, inability to collect on promissory notes, lack of further orders for our OBX rental equipment, failure of our Quantum products to be adopted by the border and security perimeter market or a decrease in such market due to governmental changes, and infringement or failure to protect intellectual property. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Business Overview Unless otherwise specified, the discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refers to Geospace Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. We principally design and manufacture seismic instruments and equipment. These seismic products are marketed to the oil and gas industry and used to locate, characterize and monitor hydrocarbon producing reservoirs. We also market our seismic products to other industries for vibration monitoring, border and perimeter security and various geotechnical applications. We design and manufacture other products of a non-seismic nature, including water meter products, imaging equipment, offshore cables, remote shutoff water valves and Internet of Things (IoT) platform and provide contract manufacturing services. We report and categorize our customers and products into three different segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. Demand for our products targeted at customers in our Oil and Gas Markets segment has been, and will likely continue to be, vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the oil and gas industry in general. For more information, please refer to the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the internet at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on our website at www.geospace.com. From time to time, we may post investor presentations on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or 21 posted in the future, is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Products and Product Development Oil and Gas Markets Our Oil and Gas Markets business segment has historically accounted for the majority of our revenue. Geoscientists use seismic data primarily in connection with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves to map potential and known hydrocarbon bearing formations and the geologic structures that surround them. This segments products include wireless seismic data acquisition systems, reservoir characterization products and services, and traditional seismic exploration products such as geophones, hydrophones, leader wire, connectors, cables, marine streamer retrieval and steering devices and various other seismic products. We believe that our Oil and Gas Markets products are among the most technologically advanced instruments and equipment available for seismic data acquisition. Traditional Products An energy source and a data recording system are combined to acquire seismic data. We provide many of the components of seismic data recording systems, including geophones, hydrophones, multi-component sensors, leader wire, geophone strings, connectors, seismic telemetry cables and other seismic related products. On land, our customers use geophones, leader wire, cables and connectors to receive and measure seismic reflections resulting from an energy source into data recording units, which store the seismic information for subsequent processing and analysis. In the marine environment, large ocean-going vessels tow long seismic cables known as streamers containing hydrophones that are used to detect pressure changes. Hydrophones transmit electrical impulses back to the vessels data recording unit where the seismic data is stored for subsequent processing and analysis. Our marine seismic products also help steer streamers while being towed and help recover streamers if they become disconnected from the vessel. Our seismic sensor, cable and connector products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. Revenue from these products results primarily from seismic contractors purchasing our products as components of new seismic data acquisition systems or to repair and replace components of seismic data acquisition systems already in use. Wireless Products We have developed multiple versions of a land-based wireless (or nodal) seismic data acquisition system. Rather than utilizing interconnecting cables as required by most traditional land data acquisition systems, each of our wireless stations operate as an independent data collection system, allowing for virtually unlimited channel configurations. As a result, our wireless systems require less maintenance, which we believe allows our customers to operate more effectively and efficiently because of its reduced environmental impact, lower weight and ease of operation. Each wireless station is available in a single-channel or three-channel configuration. Since its introduction in 2008 and through June 30, 2022, we have sold 486,000 wireless channels and we currently have 74,000 wireless channels in our rental fleet. We have also developed a marine-based wireless seismic data acquisition system called the OBX. Similar to our land-based wireless systems, the marine OBX system may be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations and does not require interconnecting cables between each station. Our deepwater versions of the OBX system can be deployed in depths of up to 3,450 meters. Since its introduction in 2010 and through June 30, 2022, we have sold 12,000 OBX stations and we currently have 26,000 OBX stations in our rental fleet. Reservoir Products Seismic surveys repeated over selected time intervals show dynamic changes within a producing oil and gas reservoir, and operators can use these surveys to monitor the effects of oil and gas development and production. This type of reservoir monitoring requires special purpose or custom designed systems in which portability becomes less critical and functional reliability assumes greater importance. This reliability factor helps assure successful operations in inaccessible locations over a considerable period of time. Additionally, reservoirs located in deep water or harsh environments require special instrumentation and new techniques to maximize recovery. Reservoir monitoring also requires high-bandwidth, high-resolution seismic data for engineering project planning and reservoir management. Utilizing these reservoir monitoring tools, producers can enhance the recovery of oil and gas deposits over the life of a reservoir. We have developed permanently installed high-definition reservoir monitoring systems for land and ocean-bottom applications in producing oil and gas fields. Our electrical reservoir monitoring systems are currently installed on numerous offshore reservoirs in the North Sea and elsewhere. Through our acquisition of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology, we now offer both electrical and fiber optic reservoir monitoring systems. These high-definition seismic data acquisition systems have a flexible architecture allowing them to be configured as a subsurface system for both land and marine reservoir-monitoring projects. The scalable architecture 22 of these systems enables custom designed configuration for applications ranging from low-channel engineering and environmental-scale surveys requiring a minimum number of recording channels to high-channel surveys required to efficiently conduct permanent reservoir monitoring (PRM). The modular architecture of these products allows virtually unlimited channel expansion for these systems. In addition, we produce seismic borehole acquisition systems that employ a fiber optic augmented wireline capable of very high data transmission rates. These systems are used for several reservoir monitoring applications, including an application pioneered by us allowing operators and service companies to monitor and measure the results of hydraulic fracturing operations. We believe our reservoir characterization products make seismic acquisition a cost-effective and reliable process for reservoir monitoring. Our multi-component seismic product developments also include an omni-directional geophone for use in reservoir monitoring, a compact marine three-component or four-component gimbaled sensor and special-purpose connectors, connector arrays and cases. In September 2020, we received a request from a major oil and gas producer for a proposal to manufacture a large-scale seabed PRM system. Under the offered terms and conditions as initially presented, we decided not to provide a bid. In August 2021, we received a new request from the producer, however we have also decided not to bid under the new offered terms and conditions. We have also held discussions and received requests for information from other major oil and gas producers regarding PRM systems. We have not received any orders for a large-scale seabed PRM system since November 2012. Adjacent Markets Our Adjacent Markets businesses leverage upon existing manufacturing facilities and engineering capabilities utilized by our Oil and Gas Markets businesses. Many of the seismic products in our Oil and Gas Markets segment, with little or no modification, have direct application to other industries. Industrial Products Our industrial products include water meter products, remote shut-off water valves and IoT Platform, contract manufacturing products, offshore cables, and seismic sensors used for vibration monitoring and geotechnical applications such as mine safety applications and earthquake detection. Imaging Products Our imaging products include electronic pre-press products that employ direct thermal imaging and digital inkjet printing technologies targeted at the commercial graphics, industrial graphics, textile and flexographic printing industries. Emerging Markets Our Emerging Markets business segment consists entirely of our Quantum business. Quantums product line includes a proprietary detection system called SADAR , which detects, locates and tracks items of interest in real-time. Using the SADAR technology, Quantum designs and sells products used for border and perimeter security surveillance, cross-border tunneling detection and other products targeted at movement monitoring, intrusion detection and situational awareness. In addition to its commercial base of customers, Quantums customers primarily include various agencies of the U.S. government including the Department of Defense, Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security and other agencies. 23 Consolidated Results of Operations We report and evaluate financial information for three segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended June 30, 2022 June 30, 2021 June 30, 2022 June 30, 2021 Oil and Gas Markets Traditional exploration product revenue $ 1,592 $ 1,950 $ 3,428 $ 3,736 Wireless exploration product revenue 7,233 9,628 29,467 36,137 Reservoir product revenue 692 1,071 1,422 1,671 Total revenue 9,517 12,649 34,317 41,544 Operating loss (3,695 ) (1,807 ) (6,209 ) (13,258 ) Adjacent Markets Industrial product revenue 7,465 6,451 18,471 15,835 Imaging product revenue 3,473 2,922 9,841 8,033 Total revenue 10,938 9,373 28,312 23,868 Operating income 1,841 1,997 4,341 4,819 Emerging Markets Revenue 135 1,061 571 10,023 Operating income (loss) (1,405 ) (4 ) (3,609 ) 5,286 Corporate Revenue 101 182 Operating loss (3,275 ) (2,625 ) (9,592 ) (8,921 ) Consolidated Totals Revenue 20,691 23,083 63,382 75,435 Operating loss (6,534 ) (2,439 ) (15,069 ) (12,074 ) Overview Although in an already depressed oil and gas industry, demand further decreased in February 2020 because of the oversupply of crude oil due to failed OPEC negotiations that led to a dramatic drop in crude oil prices when combined with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. These declines in the demand for oil and gas have caused oil and gas exploration and production companies to experience a significant reduction in cash flows, which have resulted in reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic data acquisition activities. Recently, crude oil prices have rebounded and held above February 2020 levels; however, a lag in time typically occurs between higher oil prices and greater demand for our Oil and Gas Markets segment products. We believe this lag is the result of exploration and production (E&P) companies allocating their cash flow towards shareholder reward initiatives, such as stock buy-back programs and dividend payments, or in debt reduction. We believe this lag is a short-term trend that will continue until E&P companies decide to reinvest capital into exploration activities. As this lag persists, we expect the reduced levels of demand for our Oil and Gas Markets segment products and our rental marine wireless nodal products to continue. We also expect our land-based traditional and wireless products will continue to experience low levels of product demand until our customers consume their excess levels of underutilized equipment. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2022, we experienced increased rental demand for our marine nodal products in the form of additional rental contracts and requests for quotes from existing and new customers. In light of current market conditions, the inventory balances in our Oil and Gas Markets business segment at June 30, 2022 continued to exceed levels we consider appropriate for the current level of product demand. We are continuing to work aggressively to reduce these legacy inventory balances; however, we are also adding new inventories for new wireless product developments and for other product demand in our Adjacent Markets segment. During periods of excessive inventory levels, our policy has been, and will continue to be, to record obsolescence expense as we experience reduced product demand and as our inventories continue to age. As difficult market conditions continue for the products in our Oil and Gas Markets segment, we are recording additional expenses for inventory obsolescence and will continue to do so in the future until product demand and/or resulting inventory turnover return to acceptable levels. 24 Armed Conflict Between Russia and Ukraine A portion of our oil and gas product manufacturing is conducted through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Geospace Technologies Eurasia LLC, which is based in the Russian Federation. Consequently, our oil and gas business could be directly affected by the current war between Russia and Ukraine. Please see Part IIItem 1A.Risk Factors for more information. Coronavirus (COVID-19) The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted worldwide economic activity and continues to create challenges in our markets, such as uncertainties regarding the duration and extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will ultimately have a negative impact on the demand for our products and services or on our supply chain. We continue to closely monitor the situation as information becomes readily available. During the nine months ended June 30, 2022, our operations have, for the most part, remained open globally and the impact of the effects of COVID-19 to our personnel and operations has been limited. Our supply chain has become increasingly strained due to increased pricing for raw material and supplies coupled with longer than expected lead times. We initially experienced a reduction in demand for the rental of our OBX marine nodal products, which we believed was primarily the result of the pandemic; however, demand has increased in fiscal year 2022. We also believe our Adjacent Markets business segment has entered into a period of recovery from the initial effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, but we continue to be cautious about the pandemics effect on our other business segments and our supply chain. As a result, we continually communicate with our suppliers and customers as information is available to best manage this difficult situation. Three and nine months ended June 30, 2022 compared to the three and nine months ended June 30, 2021 Consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2022 was $20.7 million, a decrease of $2.4 million, or 10.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for the three months ended June 30, 2022 was primarily due to a decrease in revenue from our Oil and Gas Markets segment, primarily caused by lower wireless exploration product sales. The decrease in consolidated revenue was partially offset by increased rental revenue from our OBX rental fleet and increased revenue from our Adjacent Markets segment attributable to higher sales of our industrial and imaging products. Consolidated revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 was $63.4 million, a decrease of $12.1 million, or 16.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to a reduction in revenue from our Emerging Markets segment related to our contract with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (the "CBP") and a decrease in revenue from sales of our wireless seismic products. The decrease in revenue was partially offset by increased rental revenue from our OBX rental fleet and higher sales of our industrial and imaging products. Consolidated gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2022 was $3.7 million, a decrease of $2.0 million, or 35.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in consolidated gross profit was primarily due to a reduction in revenue and related gross profit from wireless exploration product sales. The decrease was partially offset by higher gross profit attributable to the increased utilization of our OBX rental fleet discussed above. Consolidated gross profit for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 was $12.2 million, a decrease of $1.0 million, or 7.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease resulted from the reduction in revenue and related gross profit from our contract with the CBP discussed above. The decrease largely offset by (i) higher gross profit attributable to the increased utilization of our OBX rental fleet and (ii) the higher profit margins generated on wireless exploration product sales. Consolidated operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2022 were $10.2 million, an increase of $2.1 million, or 26.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in consolidated operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2022 was due to (i) a $0.9 million increase in personnel costs, (ii) $0.4 million in incremental operating costs associated with our recent acquisition of Aquana, (iii) a $0.3 million increase in sales, marketing and other general business expenses and (iv) a $0.5 million decrease in a favorable non-cash adjustment to the estimated fair value of contingent consideration related to our Quantum and OptoSeis acquisitions when compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated operating expenses for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 were $27.2 million, an increase of $2.0 million, or 7.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was due to (i) a $1.5 million increase in research and development project costs, (ii) a $2.1 million increase in personnel costs, (iii) $0.9 million in incremental operating costs associated with our recent acquisition of Aquana and (iv) a $0.8 million increase in sales, marketing and other general business expenses. The increase was partially offset by a $3.3 million increase in a favorable non-cash adjustment to the estimated fair value of contingent consideration related to our Quantum and OptoSeis acquisitions when compared to same period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated other income for the three months ended June 30, 2022 was $28,000, compared to $1.8 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated other income for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 was $0.4 million compared to $3.3 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in other income for both periods was primarily due to (i) a gain recognized on the sale of our investment in a debt security in the third quarter of fiscal year 2021, (ii) foreign exchanges losses incurred in the third quarter of fiscal year 2022 and (iii) a decrease in interest income during the first six months of fiscal year 2022. 25 Segment Results of Operations Oil and Gas Markets Revenue Revenue from our Oil and Gas Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2022 decreased $3.1 million, or 24.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our Oil and Gas Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 decreased $7.2 million, or 17.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Our product revenue in this segment continues to be negatively impacted by a lack of capital spending by oil and gas exploration companies despite higher crude oil prices. The components of these decreases were as follows: Traditional Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2022, revenue from our traditional products decreased $0.4 million, or 18.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2022, revenue from our traditional products decreased $0.3 million, or 8.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for both periods primarily reflects lower demand for our sensor products. Wireless Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2022, revenue from our wireless exploration products decreased $2.4 million, or 24.9%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. This decrease in revenue was primarily due to a decrease in wireless product sales, largely attributable to a $2.9 million land-based seismic wireless product sale in the third quarter of fiscal year 2021. The decrease was partially offset by increased rental revenue attributable to higher utilization of our OBX rental fleet during the third quarter of fiscal year 2022. For the nine months ended June 30, 2022, revenue from our wireless exploration products decreased $6.7 million, or 18.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. This decrease was primarily due to the recognition of $12.5 million of revenue related to a land-based wireless system in the second quarter of fiscal year 2021 and a $9.9 million sale of used OBX rental equipment in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. The decrease was partially offset by a $10.0 million sale of used OBX rental equipment in the second quarter of fiscal year 2022 and increased OBX rental revenue during the nine months ended June 30, 2022. Reservoir Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2022, revenue from our reservoir products decreased $0.4 million, or 35.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2022, revenue from our reservoir products decreased $0.2 million, or 14.9%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in revenue for both periods was primarily due to lower reservoir monitoring service revenue. Operating Loss Operating loss associated with our Oil and Gas Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2022 was $(3.7) million, compared to an operating loss of $(1.8) million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating loss for the three months ended June 30, 2022 was primarily due to (i) a decrease in wireless product sales and related gross profits and (ii) an increase in operating expenses. The increase was partially offset by (i) higher OBX rental revenue and related gross profit and (ii) a $0.5 million increase to a favorable non-cash adjustment to the estimated fair value of contingent consideration related to our OptoSeis acquisition when compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Operating loss associated with our Oil and Gas Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 was $(6.2) million, compared to an operating loss of $(13.3) million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating loss for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 was primarily due to (i) higher gross profits generated on wireless exploration product sales, (ii) higher wireless rental revenue and related gross profits due to improved utilization of our OBX rental fleet, and (iii) a $4.4 million increase to a favorable non-cash adjustment to the estimated fair value of contingent consideration related to our OptoSeis acquisition when compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating loss for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 was partially offset by an increase in research and development costs and other operating expenses. Adjacent Markets Revenue Revenue from our Adjacent Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2022 increased $1.6 million, or 16.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our Adjacent Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 increased $4.4 million, or 18.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. While we experienced an increase in the demand for our Adjacent Markets products and services during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2022 despite global supply 26 chain shortages, we cannot reasonably determine the lasting affects of the supply chain shortages on this operating segment. The components of these increases were as follows: Industrial Product Revenue and Services For the three months ended June 30, 2022 revenue from our industrial products increased $1.0 million, or 15.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2022 revenue from our industrial products increased $2.6 million, or 16.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue for both periods was primarily due to higher demand for our water meter products, industrial sensor products and contract manufacturing services. Imaging Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2022, revenue from our imaging products increased $0.6 million, or 22.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2022, revenue from our imaging products increased $1.8 million, or 24.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for both periods was primarily due to higher demand for our imaging equipment and consumable film products. Operating Income The operating income from our Adjacent Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2022 was $1.8 million, a decrease of $0.2 million, or 7.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The operating income from our Adjacent Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 was $4.3 million, a decrease of $0.5 million, or 9.9%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating income for both periods was primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, mostly caused by higher research and development expense and incremental operating costs attributable to our acquisition of Aquana. The decrease in operating income for both periods was partially offset by an increase in revenue and related gross profits. Emerging Markets Revenue Revenue from our Emerging Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2022 was $0.1 million, compared to $1.1 million from the corresponding period in the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our Emerging Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 was $0.6 million, compared to $10.0 million from the corresponding period in the prior fiscal year. The decrease in revenue for both periods was due to revenue recognized on our contract with the CBP during the prior fiscal year. We were awarded this contract during fiscal year 2020 to provide a technology solution to the Department of Homeland Security. The majority of the revenue related to this contract was recognized in fiscal year 2021. The contract was completed in the second quarter of fiscal year 2022. On January 20, 2021, President Biden ordered a pause on construction of the wall at the U.S. Mexico border to assess the legality of the funding, contracting methods, as well as the consequences of stopping the construction. It remains uncertain at this time whether the executive order will result in a temporary halt or permanent cessation of the construction. The Biden administration may implement new or different policies or take further executive action regarding border security that could change the demand for our perimeter and security products. Operating Income (Loss) Operating loss from our Emerging Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2022 was $(1.4) million, compared to $(4,000) from the corresponding period in the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating loss for the three months ended June 30, 2022 was primarily due to a decrease in revenue and related gross profits. The increase in operating loss was also due to a $0.9 million decrease to a favorable non-cash adjustment to the estimated fair value of contingent consideration related to our Quantum acquisition when compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Operating loss from our Emerging Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 was $(3.6) million, compared to operating income of $5.3 million from the corresponding period in the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating income (loss) for the nine months ended June 30, 2022 was primarily due to the revenue and related gross profit recognized on our contract with the CBP in the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating income (loss) was also due to a $1.0 million decrease to a favorable non-cash adjustment to the estimated fair value of contingent consideration related to our Quantum acquisition when compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2022, we had approximately $9.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. For the nine months ended June 30, 2022, we used $13.3 million of cash from operating activities. Our net loss of $14.8 million was offset by net non-cash charges of $13.8 million resulting from deferred income taxes, depreciation, amortization, accretion, inventory obsolescence, stock-based compensation, bad debt expense and changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration. Other uses of cash in our operations primarily included (i) the removal of $10.8 million gross profit from the sale of used rental equipment as it is included in 27 investing activities, (ii) a $2.2 million decrease in accounts payable due to the timing of payments to suppliers, and (iii) a $1.7 million increase in inventories to meet an increase in demand for our Adjacent Markets products. Offsetting these uses of cash primarily included (i) a $1.5 million decrease in trade accounts and notes receivable primarily due to the timing of collections from customers and (ii) a $1.1 million decrease in unbilled receivables as a result of billings to the CBP. For the nine months ended June 30, 2022, we generated cash of $8.7 million in investing activities. Sources of cash included (i) net proceeds of $7.7 million for the sale of short-term investments and (ii) proceeds of $5.9 million from the sale of used rental equipment. Offsetting these sources were (i) $0.9 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment and (ii) $4.1 million for additions to our equipment rental fleet. We do not expect our cash investments in our rental fleet and property, plant and equipment during fiscal year 2022 to be significant for the remainder of fiscal year 2022. Our capital expenditures are expected to be funded from our cash on hand, internal cash flows, cash flows from our rental contracts or, if necessary, borrowings under our new credit agreement. For the nine months ended June 30, 2022, we used $1.7 million from financing activities. Uses of cash included (i) $0.8 million contingent consideration payments to the former shareholders of Quantum, (ii) debt issuance costs of $0.2 million incurred in connection with our new credit agreement and (iii) $0.7 million for the purchase of treasury stock pursuant to a stock buy-back program authorized by our board of directors. The stock buy-back program authorized us to repurchase up to $7.5 million of our common stock in open market transactions. The program was completed in November 2021. Our available cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $9.1 million at June 30, 2022, which included $2.6 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices, of which $1.4 million was held by our subsidiary in the Russian Federation. If we were to repatriate the cash held by our Russian subsidiary, we would be required to accrue and pay taxes on any amount repatriated. In May 2022, we entered into a credit agreement (the Agreement) with Amerisource Funding, Inc., as administrative agent and as a lender, and Woodforest National Bank, as a lender. Available borrowings under the Agreement are determined by a borrowing base with a maximum availability of $10 million. The borrowing base is determined based upon certain of our domestic assets which include (i) 70% loan to value of our property located at 6410 Langfield Road in Houston, Texas (the Property), (ii) 50% of forced liquidation value of equipment, (iii) 80% of certain accounts receivable and (iv) 50% of forced liquidation value of certain inventory (inventory borrowing base limited to 100% of borrowing base credit given toward accounts receivable). The Agreement is for a two-year term with all funds borrowed due at the expiration of the term. The interest rate on borrowed funds is the Wall Street prime rate (with a minimum of 3.25%) plus 4.00%. We are required to make monthly interest payments on borrowed funds. Borrowings under the Agreement will be principally secured by the Property and our domestic equipment, inventory and accounts receivables. In addition, certain of our domestic subsidiaries have guaranteed our obligations under the Agreement and such subsidiaries have secured the obligations by pledging certain assets. The Agreement requires us to maintain a minimum consolidated tangible net worth of $100 million. At June 30, 2022, we had no borrowings outstanding and were compliant with all covenants under the Agreement. Our borrowing availability at June 30, 2022 was $8.5 million. We do not currently anticipate the need to borrow under the Agreement, however, we may decide to do so in the future, if needed. Our available cash and cash equivalent and short-term investments decreased $14.5 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2022. In the absence of future profitable results of operations, we may need to rely on other sources of liquidity to fund our future operations, including executed rental contracts, available borrowings under our Agreement through its expiration in May 2024, leveraging or sales of real estate assets, sales of rental assets and other liquidity sources which may be available to us. We currently believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to finance any future operating losses and planned capital expenditures through the next twelve months. We do not have any obligations which meet the definition of an off-balance sheet arrangement and which have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial statements or the items contained therein that are material to investors. 28 Contractual Obligations Contingent Consideration We recorded an initial contingent consideration liability of $7.7 million in connection with our July 2018 acquisition of Quantum. Subsequent to the acquisition, we reduced the estimated liability to $0.2 million as of June 30, 2022 as a result of $2.3 million of earn-out payments made through June 2022 and $5.2 million in adjustments to reduce the value of expected future payments. Contingent payments, if any, may be paid in the form of cash or Company stock and will be derived from eligible revenue generated during the four-year post-acquisition period, which ended in July 2022. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.5 million. We recorded an initial contingent consideration liability of $4.3 million in connection with our November 2018 acquisition of all the intellectual property and related assets of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology. Subsequent to the acquisition, we decreased the estimated liability to zero as of June 30, 2022 as a result of the unlikelihood any eligible revenue will be generated during the earn-out period. Contingent cash payments, if any, will be derived from eligible revenue generated during a five-and-a-half year post-acquisition earn-out period ending in May 2024. In order for revenue to be considered eligible, sales contracts must be entered into during the first four years of the earn-out period ending in November 2022. No payments have been made to date related to the contingent consideration liability. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.2 million. We review and assess the fair value of our contingent consideration liabilities on a quarterly basis. Contingent Compensation Costs In connection with the acquisition of Aquana in July 2021, we are subject to additional contingent cash payments to the former members of Aquana over a six-year earn-out period. The contingent payments, if any, will be derived from certain eligible revenue generated during the earn-out period from products and services sold by Aquana. There is no maximum limit to the contingent cash payments that could be made. The merger agreement with Aquana requires the continued employment of a certain key employee and former member of Aquana for the first four years of the six year earn-out period for any of Aquanas former members to be eligible to any earn-out payments. In accordance with ASC 805, Business Combination s, due to the continued employment requirement, no liability has been recorded for the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out payments for this transaction. Earn-outs achieved, if any, will be recorded as compensation expense when incurred. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information on our contractual contingencies. Critical Accounting Estimates During the three months ended June 30, 2022, there has been no material change to our critical accounting estimates discussed in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.