Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2016. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents incorporated by reference herein, if any, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefore, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and the provision of accounting reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016, as well as other cautionary language in such Annual Report and this Quarterly Report, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Such examples include, but are not limited to, decreases in commodity price levels, which could reduce demand for our products, the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance, despite substantial investment by us, our sensitivity to short term backlog, delayed; or cancelled customer orders, product obsolescence resulting from poor industry conditions or new technologies, and bad debt write-offs associated with customer accounts. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Business Overview Geospace Technologies Corporation is a Texas corporation originally incorporated in Delaware on September 27, 1994. Unless otherwise specified, the discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refers to Geospace Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. We design and manufacture instruments and equipment used in the acquisition and processing of seismic data as well as in the characterization and monitoring of producing oil and gas reservoirs. Demand for our products has been, and will likely continue to be, vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the oil and gas industry in general. For more information, please refer to the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016. We have engaged in the seismic instrument and equipment business since 1980 and market our products primarily to the oil and gas industry. We also design, manufacture and distribute non-seismic equipment including imaging products and industrial products. We report and categorize our customers and products into two different segments: Seismic and Non-Seismic. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SECs public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on their public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on our website at http://www.geospace.com. From time to time, we may post investor presentations on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or posted in the future, is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 16 Products and Product Development Seismic Products Our seismic business segment has historically accounted for the majority of our revenue. Geoscientists use seismic data primarily in connection with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves to map potential and known hydrocarbon bearing formations and the geologic structures that surround them. Our seismic product lines currently consist of land and marine nodal data acquisition systems, permanent land and seabed reservoir monitoring products and services, geophones and geophone strings, hydrophones, leader wire, connectors, telemetry cables, marine streamer retrieval and steering devices and various other products. Our seismic products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. We believe that our seismic products are among the most technologically advanced instruments and equipment available for seismic data acquisition. Traditional Products An energy source and a data recording system are combined to acquire seismic data. We provide many of the components of seismic data recording systems, including geophones, hydrophones, multi-component sensors, leader wire, geophone strings, connectors, seismic telemetry cables and other seismic related products. On land, our customers use geophones, leader wire, cables and connectors to receive and measure seismic reflections resulting from an energy source into data recording units, which store the seismic information for subsequent processing and analysis. In the marine environment, large ocean-going vessels tow long seismic cables known as streamers containing hydrophones which are used to detect pressure changes. Hydrophones transmit electrical impulses back to the vessels data recording unit where the seismic data is stored for subsequent processing and analysis. Our marine seismic products help steer streamers while being towed and help recover streamers if they become disconnected from the vessel. Our seismic sensor, cable and connector products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. Sales result primarily from seismic contractors purchasing our products as components of new seismic data acquisition systems or to repair and replace components of seismic data acquisition systems already in use. Our products used in marine seismic data acquisition include our marine seismic streamer retrieval devices (SRDs). Occasionally, streamer cables are severed and become disconnected from the vessel as a result of obstacles, inclement weather, vessel traffic or human error. Our SRDs, which are attached to the streamer cables, contain air bags which are designed to inflate automatically at a given water depth, bringing the severed streamer cables to the surface. These SRDs save the seismic contractors significant time and money compared to the alternative of losing the streamer cable. We also produce seismic streamer steering devices, or birds, which are fin-like devices that attach to the streamer cable. These birds help maintain the streamer cable at a certain desired depth as it is being towed through the water. Wireless Products Our land-based wireless (or nodal) seismic data acquisition system is called the GSX. Each GSX station operates independently and therefore can be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations. Rather than utilizing interconnecting cables as required by most traditional land data acquisition systems, each GSX station operates as an independent data collection system. As a result, our GSX system requires less maintenance, which we believe allows our customers to operate more effectively and efficiently because of its reduced environmental impact, lower weight and ease of operation. Our GSX system is designed into configurations ranging from one to four channels per station. Since its introduction in 2008 and through March 31, 2017, we have sold 343,000 GSX channels and we have 127,000 GSX channels in our rental fleet. We do not expect to expand our GSX rental fleet in the foreseeable future. We have also developed a marine-based wireless seismic data acquisition system called the OBX. Similar to our GSX land-based wireless system, the marine OBX system can be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations and does not require interconnecting cables between each station. Our deep water versions of the OBX system can be deployed in depths of up to 3,450 meters. Through March 31, 2017, we have sold 490 OBX stations and we have 5,600 OBX stations in our rental fleet. In the absence of additional customer orders for OBX systems, we do not expect to make any cash investments into our OBX rental fleet during fiscal year 2017. Reservoir Products Seismic surveys repeated over selected time intervals show dynamic changes within the reservoir and can be used to monitor the effects of oil and gas production. In this regard, we have developed permanently installed high-definition reservoir monitoring systems for land and ocean-bottom applications in producing oil and gas fields. We also produce a retrievable version of our ocean- 17 bottom system for use on fields where permanently installed systems are not appropriate or economical. Utilizing these tools, producers can enhance the recovery of oil a nd gas deposits over the life of a reservoir. Our high-definition reservoir monitoring products include the HDSeis product line and a suite of borehole and reservoir monitoring products and services. Our HDSeis system is a high-definition seismic data acquisition system with flexible architecture that allows it to be configured as a borehole seismic system or as a subsurface system for both land and marine reservoir-monitoring projects. The scalable architecture of the HDSeis system enables custom designed system configuration for applications ranging from low-channel engineering and environmental-scale surveys requiring a minimum number of recording channels to high-channel surveys required to efficiently conduct permanent reservoir imaging and monitoring. Modular architecture allows virtually unlimited channel expansion. In addition, multi-system synchronization features make the HDSeis system well suited for multi-well or multi-site acquisition, simultaneous surface and downhole acquisition and continuous reservoir monitoring projects. Reservoir monitoring requires special purpose or custom designed systems in which portability becomes less critical and functional reliability assumes greater importance. This reliability factor helps assure successful operations in inaccessible locations over a considerable period of time. Additionally, reservoirs located in deep water or harsh environments require special instrumentation and new techniques to maximize recovery. Reservoir monitoring also requires high-bandwidth, high-resolution seismic data for engineering project planning and reservoir management. We believe our HDSeis system and tools, designed for cost-effective deployment and lifetime performance, will make borehole and seabed seismic acquisition a cost-effective and reliable process for the challenges of reservoir monitoring. Our multi-component seismic product developments include an omni-directional geophone for use in reservoir monitoring, a compact marine three-component or four-component gimbaled sensor and special-purpose connectors, connector arrays and cases. We have not delivered nor did we receive orders for any permanent reservoir monitoring systems during fiscal year 2016 or during the first six months of fiscal year 2017. In addition, we produce seismic borehole acquisition systems which employ a fiber optic augmented wireline capable of very high data transmission rates. These systems are used for several reservoir monitoring applications, including an application pioneered by us allowing operators and service companies to monitor and measure the results of fracturing operations. Non-Seismic Products Our non-seismic businesses leverage upon our existing manufacturing facilities and engineering capabilities. We have found that many of our seismic products, with little or no modification, have direct application to industries beyond those involved in oil and gas exploration and development. For example, our customers utilize our seismic borehole tools to monitor subsurface carbon dioxide injections and for mine safety applications. Our non-seismic products include electronic pre-press products that employ direct thermal imaging and digital inkjet printing technologies targeted at the commercial graphics, industrial graphics, textile and flexographic printing industries. Our other non-seismic products consist of (i) sensors and tools for vibration monitoring, mine safety application and earthquake detection, (ii) cables for power and communication for the offshore oil and gas and offshore construction industries, (iii) water meter cables and connectors, and (iv) other specialty industrial cable and connector products. 18 Consolidated Results of Operations We report and evaluate financial information for two segments: Seismic and Non-Seismic. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Seismic Traditional exploration product revenue $ 3,637 $ 3,205 $ 6,207 $ 8,192 Wireless exploration product revenue 9,601 4,714 15,924 6,604 Reservoir product revenue 706 582 1,219 1,279 Total revenue 13,944 8,501 23,350 16,075 Operating loss (9,156 ) (11,834 ) (18,609 ) (23,969 ) Non-Seismic Industrial product revenue 3,301 3,372 6,380 6,096 Imaging product revenue 3,167 2,915 5,824 5,624 Total revenue 6,468 6,287 12,204 11,720 Operating income 1,052 848 2,104 1,410 Corporate Revenue 146 143 289 273 Operating loss (2,956 ) (3,001 ) (5,866 ) (6,120 ) Consolidated Totals Revenue 20,558 14,931 35,843 28,068 Operating loss (11,060 ) (13,987 ) (22,371 ) (28,679 ) Overview Early in calendar year 2014, we began to experience a softening in the demand for our seismic exploration products, particularly in North America, as capital budgets for oil and gas producers were trending away from exploration-focused activities toward production and exploitation activities. During this period oil production in North Americas unconventional shale reservoirs increased, as did oil production from other non-OPEC countries, resulting in an oversupply of crude oil in the world market. Market prices for a barrel of crude oil declined from over $100 in July 2014 to approximately $27 in January 2016, and have recovered somewhat to approximately $50 today. With the decline in oil and natural gas prices, oil and gas exploration and production companies experienced a significant reduction in cash flows, which resulted in sharp reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic activities. In addition, we have not received any orders for permanent reservoir monitoring systems since the Statoil Order was completed in April 2014. We expect revenue from our seismic products, and in particular our traditional and wireless products, to remain low until crude oil prices stabilize at higher levels and exploration-focused industry conditions improve. We expect these challenging industry conditions to continue to negatively impact the demand for our seismic products throughout fiscal year 2017. In January 2016, in light of the decrease in demand for our seismic products, we initiated a program to further reduce our operating costs. The program was designed to produce approximately $7 million of annualized cash savings. The majority of savings were realized through a reduction of over 150 employees from our Houston-area workforce. In connection with the workforce reduction, the Company incurred $1.0 million of termination costs in its second fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2016, which are recorded to both cost of goods sold and to operating expenses. The remaining cost savings were realized through a facility consolidation as well as expense reductions in other areas. Three and six months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three and six months ended March 31, 2016 Consolidated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2017, increased $5.6 million, or 37.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated revenue for the six months ended March 31, 2017 increased $7.8 million, or 27.7% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily due to an increase in wireless exploration product sales and rental revenue in our seismic business segment. Consolidated gross profit (loss) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was a loss of ($2.6) million, compared to a loss of ($4.6) million for the corresponding period of prior fiscal year. Consolidated gross profit (loss) for the six months ended March 31, 2017 was a loss of ($5.9) million, compared to a loss of ($11.0) million for the corresponding period of prior fiscal year. The 19 improvement in gross profit (loss) for the three and six months ended March 31 , 201 7 was primarily the result of increased wireless product sales and rental revenue and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in manufacturing costs resulting from the Companys workforce reduction in the second fiscal quarter of 2016. These improvements were partially offset by an increase in inventory obsolescence expenses due to higher levels of slow-moving seismic inventories. Until seismic product demand increases to historical norms, we expect our consolidated gross margins to remain low. In light of current market conditions, we have evaluated the level of our seismic product inventories at March 31, 2017 and we continue to believe that those inventory balances far exceed levels considered appropriate for the current level of product demand. We expect our seismic product inventory levels to continue to decline slowly throughout fiscal year 2017 and beyond. During periods of excessive inventory levels, our policy has been, and will continue to be, to record higher obsolescence expense in our consolidated income statement as we experience reduced levels of inventory turnover and as our inventories continue to age. If current market conditions continue, we expect to record additional inventory obsolescence expense in fiscal year 2017 and beyond until seismic product demand and resulting seismic inventory turnover returns to acceptable levels. Consolidated operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were $8.5 million, a decrease of $0.9 million, or 9.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated operating expenses for the six months ended March 31, 2017 were $16.5 million, a decrease $1.2 million, or 6.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating expenses for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily attributable to the Companys cost reduction program implemented during the second fiscal quarter of 2016. Consolidated other income (expense) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was ($0.1) million, a decrease of $0.8 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated other income (expense) for the six months ended March 31, 2017 was ($0.1) million, a decrease of $0.9 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decreases for both periods primarily resulted from foreign exchange losses attributable to U.S. dollar deposits held by our Russian subsidiary. Consolidated income tax expense (benefit) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $0.3 million compared to ($2.3) million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated income tax expense (benefit) for the six months ended March 31, 2017 was $0.8 million compared to ($5.9) million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Our effective tax rates for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were (3.1)% and (17.4)%, respectively. Our effective tax rates for the six months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were (3.4)% and (21.1)%, respectively. The United States statutory tax rate for the same periods was 35%. Compared to the United States statutory rate, the lower effective tax rates for the three and six months ended March 31, 2016 resulted primarily from a valuation allowance against the Companys Canadian subsidiarys net deferred tax assets. The lower effective tax rates for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017 primarily resulted from our inability to recognize deferred tax assets and other tax benefits in connection with the losses we incurred in the United States and Canada due to the uncertainty surrounding our ability to utilize such deferred tax assets in the future to offset taxable income. Seismic Products Revenue Revenue from our seismic products for the three months ended March 31, 2017 increased $5.4 million, or 64.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our seismic products for the six months ended March 31, 2017 increased $7.3 million, or 45.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of these increases include the following: Traditional Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2017, revenue from our traditional products increased $0.4 million, or 13.5% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to higher demand for certain specialty sensor products. For the six months ended March 31, 2017, revenue from our traditional products decreased $2.0 million, or 24.2% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease primarily reflects lower demand for our sensor products due to lower seismic crew activities. Wireless Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2017, revenue from our wireless exploration products increased by $4.9 million, or 103.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the six months ended March 31, 2017, revenue from our wireless exploration products increased by $9.3 million, or 141.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for both periods was primarily due to higher demand for the sale of our GSX products and increased rental revenue attributable from our OBX products. We concluded two OBX rental contracts in the second quarter ended March 31, 2017. As a result, we expect lower levels of rental income during our third quarter ending June 30, 2017. 20 Reservoir Product Revenue For the three months ended March 31 , 201 7 , revenue from our reservoir products in creased $ 0.1 million, or 21.3 %, fr om the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to an increase in reservoir monitoring service revenue. For the six months ended March 31 , 201 7 , revenue from our reservoir products decreased $ 0.1 million, or 4.7 %, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year . The revenue decrease primarily resulted from lower borehole product rentals. We have not delivered nor did we receive orders for any permanent reservoir monitoring systems during fiscal year 2016 or during the first six months of fiscal year 2017. We continue to actively market these products to our customers. Operating Loss Our operating loss associated with revenue from our seismic products for the three months ended March 31, 2017 decreased $2.7 million, or 22.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior year. Our operating loss associated with revenue from our seismic products for the six months ended March 31, 2017 decreased $5.4 million, or 22.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior year. The decrease in operating loss for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily due to (i) increased wireless product sales and rental revenue and (ii) lower manufacturing and operating costs due to workforce reductions initiated in the second fiscal quarter of 2016. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in inventory obsolescence expense. Non-Seismic Products Revenue Revenue from our non-seismic products for the three months ended March 31, 2017 increased $0.2 million, or 2.9%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our non-seismic products for the six months ended March 31, 2017 increased $0.5 million, or 4.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of these increases included the following: Industrial Product Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2017, revenue from our industrial products decreased $0.1 million, or 2.1% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. We consider this small decrease to be normal and not indicative of any particular trend in product demand. For the six months ended March 31, 2017, revenue from our industrial products increased $0.3 million, or 4.7% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily attributable to higher demand for contract manufacturing services. Imaging Product Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2017, revenue from our imaging products increase $0.3 million, or 8.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase reflects higher demand for our print head and film products. For the six months ended March 31, 2017, revenue from our imaging products increased $0.2 million, or 3.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to higher demand for our thermal print head products. Operating Income Our operating income associated with sales of our non-seismic products for the three and six month periods ended March 31, 2017 increased by $0.2 million, or 24.1%, and $0.7 million, or 49.2%, respectively from the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating income for both periods primarily resulted from increased product sales and improved gross profit margins. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2017, we had approximately $19.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and $28.9 million in short-term investments. For the six months ended March 31, 2017, we generated $8.3 million of cash in operating activities. Sources of cash included our net loss of $23.2 million which was offset by (i) net non-cash charges of $20.3 million from deferred income taxes, depreciation, accretion, inventory obsolescence, stock-based compensation and bad debts, (ii) a $12.8 million decrease in income tax receivable resulting from a refund received in our second quarter, (iii) a $1.2 million decrease in inventories caused by a drawdown of our excess levels of finished goods due to increased product sales, (iv) a $0.2 million decrease in trade accounts and notes receivable resulting from collections and (v) a $0.8 million decrease in prepaid income taxes related to the depreciation of intercompany profits by our foreign subsidiary. These sources of cash were partially offset by (i) a $2.3 million decrease in accrued and other expenses primarily due to the payment of calendar year 2016 property taxes and (ii) the removal of a $1.5 million gross profit from the sale of used rental equipment since such gross profit is reflected in the proceeds from the sale of used rental equipment under investing activities. 21 For the six months ended March 31, 201 7 , we generated cash of $ 0.5 million from investing activities. Proceeds of $2.4 million were generated from the sale of used rental equipment. This source of cash was partially offset by (i) net disbursements of $1.4 million for the purchase of short-term investments, (ii) an investment of $ 0.3 million in property, plant and equipment and (i i i) $0.1 million to expand our rental fleet . We estimate total fiscal year 2017 cash investments in property, plant and equipment will be approximately $3. 5 million. We expect fiscal year 2017 cash investments in to our rental fleet to be minimal in the absence of any significant customer orders for OBX systems. O ur capital expenditures are expected to be funded from our cash on hand, internal cash flow or, if necessary, from borrowings under our credit agreement. For the six months ended March 31, 2017, we generated cash proceeds of $0.1 million from financing activities from the exercise of stock options by our employees. With the decline in oil and natural gas prices which have occurred since July 2014, exploration and production companies have experienced a significant reduction in cash flows resulting in sharp reductions in their capital spending budgets for exploration-focused activities, including seismic activities. As a result, our seismic business segment has experienced a significant decline in product orders and associated revenue, resulting in substantial operating losses and the continued depletion of our cash balances. Due to the uncertainty concerning a recovery of crude oil prices to levels capable of sustaining increased seismic exploration activities, we expect these depressed seismic market conditions to continue through fiscal year 2017. Our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $48.2 million at March 31, 2017, including $7.1 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. We intend to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. If we were to repatriate the cash held by our foreign subsidiaries, we would be required to accrue and pay income taxes in the United States. Our credit agreement allows for borrowings of up to $30.0 million with such amounts available for borrowing determined by a borrowing base. At March 31, 2017, we had no outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement and, after consideration of $0.4 million of outstanding letters of credit, our borrowing availability under the credit facility was $29.6 million. At March 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement, and we expect to remain in compliance with all covenants throughout fiscal year 2017. We currently do not anticipate the need to borrow from the credit agreement during fiscal year 2017, however, we can make no assurance that we will not do so. In March 2017, we received a $12.8 million income tax refund from the U.S. Department of Treasury. The refund was a result of the significant tax losses we experienced in fiscal year 2016 which we elected to carryback to our fiscal year 2014 U.S. tax return to recoup taxes previously paid. In addition, we expect to receive an additional $0.3 million income tax refund from the U.S. Department of Treasury later in fiscal year 2017. In March 2016, we received an $18.3 million income tax refund as result of our pretax loss in fiscal year 2015, which we elected to carryback to our fiscal year 2013 U.S. tax return. For U.S. income tax purposes, we are now in a loss carryforward position in regards to our fiscal year 2017 tax losses. As a result, we are not able to receive any additional U.S. federal income tax refunds in future years. The tax refunds we received in fiscal years 2016 and 2017 have been significant contributors to our overall liquidity. In the absence of future profitable results of operations, we may need to rely on other sources of liquidity to fund our future operating results, including liquidating short-term investments, executed rental contracts, available borrowings under our credit agreement, leveraging real estate assets, sales of rental assets and other liquidity sources which may be available to us. However, currently we believe that our cash and short-term investment balances will be sufficient to finance our operating losses and planned capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Critical Accounting Policies During the six months ended March 31, 2017, there has been no material change to our critical accounting policies discussed in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.