Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2015. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents incorporated by reference herein, if any, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefore, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015, as well as other cautionary language in such Annual Report and this Quarterly Report, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Business Overview Geospace Technologies Corporation is a Texas corporation originally incorporated in Delaware on September 27, 1994. Unless otherwise specified, the discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refers to Geospace Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. We design and manufacture instruments and equipment used in the acquisition and processing of seismic data as well as in the characterization and monitoring of producing oil and gas reservoirs. Demand for our products has been, and will likely continue to be, vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the oil and gas industry in general. For more information, please refer to the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015. We have engaged in the seismic instrument and equipment business since 1980 and market our products primarily to the oil and gas industry. We also design, manufacture and distribute non-seismic equipment including thermal imaging equipment and industrial products. We report and categorize our customers and products into two different segments: Seismic and Non-Seismic. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SECs public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on their public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on our website at http://www.geospace.com. From time to time, we may post investor presentations on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or posted in the future, is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 15 Products and Product Development Seismic Products Our seismic business segment has historically accounted for the majority of our revenue. Geoscientists use seismic data primarily in connection with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves to map potential and known hydrocarbon bearing formations and the geologic structures that surround them. Our seismic product lines currently consist of land and marine nodal data acquisition systems, permanent land and seabed reservoir monitoring products and services, geophones and geophone strings, hydrophones, leader wire, connectors, telemetry cables, marine streamer retrieval and steering devices and various other products. Our seismic products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. We believe that our seismic products are among the most technologically advanced instruments and equipment available for seismic data acquisition. Traditional Products An energy source and a data recording system are combined to acquire seismic data. We provide many of the components of seismic data recording systems, including geophones, hydrophones, multi-component sensors, leader wire, geophone strings, connectors, seismic telemetry cables and other seismic related products. On land, our customers use geophones, leader wire, cables and connectors to receive and measure seismic reflections resulting from an energy source into data recording units, which store the seismic information for subsequent processing and analysis. In the marine environment, large ocean-going vessels tow long seismic cables known as streamers containing hydrophones which are used to detect pressure changes. Hydrophones transmit electrical impulses back to the vessels data recording unit where the seismic data is stored for subsequent processing and analysis. Our marine seismic products help steer streamers while being towed and help recover streamers if they become disconnected from the vessel. Our seismic sensor, cable and connector products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. Sales result primarily from seismic contractors purchasing our products as components of new seismic data acquisition systems or to repair and replace components of seismic data acquisition systems already in use. Our products used in marine seismic data acquisition include our marine seismic streamer retrieval devices (SRDs). Occasionally, streamer cables are severed and become disconnected from the vessel as a result of obstacles, inclement weather, vessel traffic or human error. Our SRDs, which are attached to the streamer cables, contain air bags which are designed to inflate automatically at a given water depth, bringing the severed streamer cables to the surface. These SRDs save the seismic contractors significant time and money compared to the alternative of losing the streamer cable. We also produce seismic streamer steering devices, or birds, which are fin-like devices that attach to the streamer cable. These birds help maintain the streamer cable at a certain desired depth as it is being towed through the water. Our wholly-owned subsidiary in the Russian Federation manufactures international standard geophones, sensors, seismic leader wire, seismic telemetry cables and related seismic products for customers in the Russian Federation and other international seismic marketplaces. We have a branch office in Colombia that primarily rents seismic equipment to our customers in the South American market. Wireless Products We have developed a land-based wireless (or nodal) seismic data acquisition system called the GSX. Each GSX station operates independently and therefore can be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations. Rather than utilizing interconnecting cables as required by most traditional land data acquisition systems, each GSX station operates as an independent data collection system. As a result, our GSX system requires less maintenance, which we believe allows our customers to operate more effectively and efficiently because of its reduced environmental impact, lower weight and ease of operation. Our GSX system is designed into configurations ranging from one to four channels per station. Since its introduction in 2008 and through June 30, 2016, we have sold 335,000 GSX channels and we have 127,000 GSX channels in our rental fleet. Due to depressed seismic industry conditions, we do not expect to expand our GSX rental fleet in the foreseeable future. We have also developed a marine-based wireless seismic data acquisition system called the OBX. Similar to our GSX land-based wireless system, the marine OBX system can be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations and does not require interconnecting cables between each station. Our deep water versions of the OBX system can be deployed in depths of up to 3,450 meters. Through June 30, 2016, we have sold 460 OBX stations and we have 5,700 OBX stations in our rental fleet. 16 Reservoir Products Seismic surveys repeated over selected time intervals show dynamic changes within the reservoir and can be used to monitor the effects of oil and gas production. In this regard, we have developed permanently installed high-definition reservoir monitoring systems for land and ocean-bottom applications in producing oil and gas fields. We also produce a retrievable version of our ocean-bottom system for use on fields where permanently installed systems are not appropriate or economical. Utilizing these tools, producers can enhance the recovery of oil and gas deposits over the life of a reservoir. Our high-definition reservoir monitoring products include the HDSeis product line and a suite of borehole and reservoir monitoring products and services. Our HDSeis system is a high-definition seismic data acquisition system with flexible architecture that allows it to be configured as a borehole seismic system or as a subsurface system for both land and marine reservoir-monitoring projects. The scalable architecture of the HDSeis system enables custom designed system configuration for applications ranging from low-channel engineering and environmental-scale surveys requiring a minimum number of recording channels to high-channel surveys required to efficiently conduct permanent reservoir imaging and monitoring. Modular architecture allows virtually unlimited channel expansion. In addition, multi-system synchronization features make the HDSeis system well suited for multi-well or multi-site acquisition, simultaneous surface and downhole acquisition and continuous reservoir monitoring projects. Reservoir monitoring requires special purpose or custom designed systems in which portability becomes less critical and functional reliability assumes greater importance. This reliability factor helps assure successful operations in inaccessible locations over a considerable period of time. Additionally, reservoirs located in deep water or harsh environments require special instrumentation and new techniques to maximize recovery. Reservoir monitoring also requires high-bandwidth, high-resolution seismic data for engineering project planning and reservoir management. We believe our HDSeis system and tools, designed for cost-effective deployment and lifetime performance, will make borehole and seabed seismic acquisition a cost-effective and reliable process for the challenges of reservoir monitoring. Our multi-component seismic product developments include an omni-directional geophone for use in reservoir monitoring, a compact marine three-component or four-component gimbaled sensor and special-purpose connectors, connector arrays and cases. We have not delivered nor did we receive orders for any permanent reservoir monitoring systems during fiscal year 2015 or during the first nine months of fiscal year 2016. In addition, we produce seismic borehole acquisition systems which employ a fiber optic augmented wireline capable of very high data transmission rates. These systems are used for several reservoir monitoring applications, including an application pioneered by us allowing operators and service companies to monitor and measure the results of fracturing operations. Non-Seismic Products Our non-seismic businesses leverage upon our existing manufacturing facilities and engineering capabilities. We have found that many of our seismic products, with little or no modification, have direct application to industries beyond those involved in oil and gas exploration and development. For example, our customers utilize our seismic borehole tools to monitor subsurface carbon dioxide injections and for mine safety applications. Our non-seismic products include thermal imaging products targeted at the commercial graphics industry as well as various industrial products including (i) sensors and tools for vibration monitoring, mine safety application and earthquake detection, (ii) cables for power and communication for the offshore oil and gas and offshore construction industries, and (iii) water meter cables and other specialty cable and connector products. 17 Consolidate d Results of Operations We report and evaluate financial information for two segments: Seismic and Non-Seismic. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended June 30, 2016 June 30, 2015 June 30, 2016 June 30, 2015 Seismic Traditional exploration product revenue $ 2,519 $ 6,323 $ 10,711 $ 23,613 Wireless exploration product revenue 6,576 6,017 13,180 23,796 Reservoir product revenue 472 1,198 1,751 4,503 Total revenue 9,567 13,538 25,642 51,912 Operating loss (10,263 ) (10,253 ) (34,232 ) (23,382 ) Non-Seismic Revenue 7,967 6,098 19,687 16,548 Operating income 1,194 971 2,604 2,331 Corporate Revenue 144 115 417 399 Operating loss (2,946 ) (3,169 ) (9,066 ) (9,837 ) Consolidated Totals Revenue 17,678 19,751 45,746 68,859 Operating loss (12,015 ) (12,451 ) (40,694 ) (30,888 ) Overview Early in calendar year 2014, we began to experience a softening in the demand for our seismic exploration products, particularly in North America, as capital budgets for oil and gas producers were trending away from exploration-focused activities toward production and exploitation activities. During this period oil production in North Americas unconventional shale reservoirs increased, as did oil production from other non-OPEC countries, resulting in an oversupply of crude oil in the world market. Market prices for a barrel of crude oil declined from over $100 in July 2014 to approximately $40 in July 2016. With the decline in oil and natural gas prices, oil and gas exploration and production companies experienced a significant reduction in cash flows, which resulted in sharp reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic activities. In addition, we have not received any orders for permanent reservoir monitoring systems since the Statoil order was completed in April 2014. We expect sales of our seismic products, and in particular our traditional and wireless products, to remain low until crude oil prices stabilize at higher levels and exploration-focused industry conditions improve. We expect these challenging industry conditions to negatively impact the demand for our seismic products throughout fiscal year 2016 and beyond. In January 2016, in light of the decrease in demand for our seismic products, we initiated a program to further reduce our operating costs. The program is expected to produce approximately $7 million of annualized cash savings in addition to savings from other cost-saving measures implemented in the first fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2015. The majority of savings was realized through a reduction of over 150 employees from our Houston-area workforce. In connection with the workforce reduction, the Company incurred $1.0 million of termination costs in its second fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2016, which are recorded to both cost of goods sold and to operating expenses. The remaining cost savings were realized through a facility consolidation as well as expense reductions in other areas. Three and nine months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three and nine months ended June 30, 2015 Consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2016 decreased $2.1 million, or 10.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 decreased $23.1 million, or 33.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in revenue for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily attributable to substantially lower product demand in our seismic business segment driven by the low level of crude oil prices. While crude oil prices have recently rebounded to approximately $45/barrel, market conditions in the seismic industry continue to remain depressed due to reduced capital spending for seismic exploration-focused activities. Consolidated gross profit (loss) for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was ($2.9) million, compared to ($3.3) million for the corresponding period of prior fiscal year. The improvement in gross profit (loss) for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily caused by (i) a decrease in unabsorbed fixed manufacturing costs resulting from the Companys workforce reduction in the second fiscal quarter of 2016, (ii) a decrease in warranty expense due to a decline in product defects and (iii) increased rental revenue. 18 These improvements were partially offset by an increase in inventory obsolescence expenses related to our seismic products. Consolidated gross profit (loss) for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 was ($13.9) million, compared to ($1.9) million for the corresponding period of prior fiscal year. The change in gross profit (loss) for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 was caused by a number of factors, including (i) a substantial reduction in s eismic product revenue, (ii) fixed depreciation expenses from our rental equipment during periods of low utilization, (iii) unabsorbed fixed manufacturing costs due to lower factory utilization caused by reduced demand for our seismic products and (iv) inc reased inventory obsolescence expenses due to higher levels of slow-moving inventories. We expect our seismic product gross margins to be lower throughout fiscal year 2016 due to expected lower manufacturing activity caused by reduced seismic product dema nd. In light of current market conditions, we have evaluated the level of our seismic product inventories at June 30, 2016 and we continue to believe that those inventory balances far exceed levels considered appropriate for the current level of product demand, although we do expect our seismic product inventory levels to continue to decline slowly throughout fiscal year 2016 and beyond. During such periods of excessive inventory levels, our policy has been, and will continue to be, to record higher obsolescence expense in our consolidated income statement as we experience reduced levels of inventory turnover and as our inventories continue to age. Due to weak seismic product demand which is expected to continue into the foreseeable future, we expect significantly higher levels of inventory obsolescence expense during fiscal year 2016 and beyond until seismic product demand and resulting seismic inventory turnover returns to acceptable levels. Consolidated operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2016 decreased $30,000, or 0.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was attributable to the Companys cost reduction program implemented during the second fiscal quarter of 2016, partially offset by a $0.4 million increase in bad debt expense. Consolidated operating expenses for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 decreased $2.2 million, or 7.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating expenses was attributable to the cost reduction program, and such reductions were partially offset by $0.5 million of termination costs associated with the program. The decrease in operating expenses also reflects the collection of past due accounts receivable from a seismic customer, which contributed to a net bad debt recovery of $0.1 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 compared to a bad debt expense of $1.1 million for the corresponding period of the prior year. Consolidated other loss for the three months ended June 30, 2016 increased $0.1 or 26.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in other loss primarily resulted from an increase in foreign exchange losses attributable to U.S. dollar deposits held by our Russian subsidiary. Consolidated other income for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 decreased $1.4 million, or 88.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in other income primarily resulted from a decrease in foreign exchange gains attributable to U.S. dollar deposits held by our Russian subsidiary. Our effective tax rates for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were (7.7)% and (33.8)%, respectively. Our effective tax rates for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were (16.9)% and (34.6)%, respectively. The United States statutory tax rate for the same periods was 35%. The lower effective tax rates resulted from (i) the provision of a valuation allowance against the Companys U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets of $3.4 million recorded during the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2016, (ii) the provision of a valuation allowance against our Canadian subsidiarys deferred tax assets of $2.5 million recorded during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2016, and (iii) a net expense adjustment totaling $1.0 million recorded during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2016 to correct our fiscal year 2015 income tax benefit. Seismic Products Revenue Revenue from our seismic products for the three months ended June 31, 2016 decreased $4.0 million, or 29.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our seismic products for the nine months ended June 31, 2016 decreased $26.3 million, or 50.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. In each of the product groups below, the decline in revenue resulted from lower demand for our seismic products due to the deterioration of industry conditions brought about by the substantial decline in oil and gas prices which began in 2014. While crude oil prices have recently rebounded to approximately $45/barrel, market conditions in the seismic industry continue to remain depressed due to reduced capital spending for seismic exploration-focused activities. The components of this decrease include the following: Traditional Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2016, revenue from our traditional products decreased $3.8 million, or 60.2% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2015, revenue from our traditional products decreased $12.9 million, or 54.6% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for both periods primarily reflects lower demand for most of our land and marine exploration products due to lower seismic crew activities. 19 Wireless Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2016, revenue from our GSX and OBX wireless products increased by $0.6 million, or 9.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily due to an increase in rental revenue attributable to a large OBX rental contract (the OBX Contract). For the nine months ended June 30, 2016, revenue from our GSX and OBX wireless products decreased by $10.6 million, or 44.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue for the prior year includes $3.0 million resulting from the revenue recognition of a non-refundable deposit on a cancelled purchase order. In addition, the reduction in revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 re flects weak demand for product sales due to reduced seismic exploration projects and an abundance of unutilized customer-owned equipment in the marketplace. However, rental revenues increased slightly during the nine months ended June 30, 2016 due to the OBX Contract. Rental revenues from the OBX Contract were $4.1 million and $7.4 million for the three months and nine months ended June 30, 2016. We expect to recognize future revenues from the OBX Contract of approximately $6 to $9 million. Reservoir Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2016, revenue from our reservoir products decreased $0.7 million, or 60.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2016, revenue from our reservoir products decreased $2.8 million, or 61.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The revenue decrease for both periods resulted from lower borehole product sales and repairs. We have not delivered nor did we receive orders for any permanent reservoir monitoring systems during fiscal year 2015 or during the first nine months of fiscal year 2016. We continue to actively market these products to our customers. During the nine months ended June 30, 2016, demand for our seismic products has fallen to historic lows. In past periods when customer demand for our seismic products was greater, especially demand for large orders for our GSX wireless systems and our seabed permanent reservoir monitoring systems, orders for such products would generally occur irregularly making it difficult for us to predict our sales and production levels each quarter. Furthermore, product shipping dates are generally determined by our customers and are not at our discretion. As a result, these factors have caused past sales of our seismic products to be unpredictable, or lumpy, and if demand were to resume to historical levels, we would expect this trend to continue. Operating Loss Our operating loss associated with revenue from our seismic products for the three months ended June 30, 2016 increased $10,000, or 0.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior year. The increase in operating loss was primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence expense. This increase was partially offset by (i) workforce reductions, (ii) lower warranty expenses and (iii) increased rental revenues. Our operating loss associated with revenue from our seismic products for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 increased $10.9 million, or 46.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior year. The increase in operating loss for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 was due to the substantial decline in our product revenue combined with a high level of fixed manufacturing costs and rental equipment depreciation expenses. Non-Seismic Products Revenue Revenue from our non-seismic products for the three months ended June 30, 2016 increased $1.9 million, or 30.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our non-seismic products for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 increased $3.1 million, or 19.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue for both periods was primarily attributable to higher demand for our industrial products. The revenue increase for the both periods was partially offset by lower sales of our offshore cable products. Operating Income Our operating income associated with sales of our non-seismic products for the three months ended June 30, 2016 increased by $0.2 million, or 23.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Our operating income associated with sales of our non-seismic products for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 increased by $0.3 million, or 11.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating income for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily the result of increased sales of our industrial products. Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2016, we had approximately $11.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $27.3 million in short-term investments. For the nine months ended June 30, 2016, we used $1.1 million of cash in operating activities. These uses of cash included (i) our net loss of $33.7 million, (ii) a $1.8 million decrease in accounts payable primarily due to declining inventory purchases resulting from 20 reduced product demand, (ii) a $2. 1 million decrease in accrued and other expenses primarily due to the payment of calendar year 2015 property taxes, (iii) a $4.4 million increase in prepaid a nd other current assets primarily attributable to straight-line rent receivable associated with an OBX rental contract and (iv) $1.4 million in excess tax expense associated with the vesting of restricted stock. These uses of cash were partially offset b y (i) net non-cash charges of $31. 4 million from deferred income taxes, depreciation, accretion, stock-based compensation, inventory obsolescence, write-down of inventories and bad debts, (ii) a $6.9 million decrease in income tax receivable primarily resu lting from an $18.3 million income tax refund received in our second quarter, (ii) a $3.1 million decrease in inventories caused by a drawdown of our excess levels of finished goods. For the nine months ended June 30, 2016, we used cash of $9.6 million from investing activities. These uses of cash included (i) net disbursements of $9.1 million from the purchase and sale of short-term investments, (ii) $1.2 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment and (iii) $0.5 million to expand our rental equipment fleet primarily for the addition of OBX nodes (this amount excludes approximately $3.0 million of non-cash transfers of inventories to our rental fleet). . These uses of cash were partially offset by $1.3 million in proceeds from the sale of used rental equipment. We periodically respond to various customer inquiries for additional OBX rental systems. If our customers order additional OBX rental systems, we may need to execute a non-cash transfer of additional OBX nodes and related equipment from our inventories to our rental fleet. In addition, we may need to partially or completely manufacture additional OBX nodes and related equipment if our finished goods inventories do not contain sufficient quantities of completed OBX products to meet customer demand. In the absence of additional customer orders for OBX systems, we expect fiscal year 2016 cash investments in our rental fleet to be approximately $0.5 million and additional non-cash transfers from our inventory account of up to $3.5 million. We estimate total fiscal year 2016 cash investments in property, plant and equipment will be approximately $2.0 million. We expect these capital expenditures to be funded from our cash on hand, internal cash flow, or, if necessary, from borrowings under our credit agreement. For the nine months ended June 30, 2016 and June 30, 2015, we had no cash flows from financing activities. With the decline in oil and natural gas prices which have occurred since July 2014, exploration and production companies have experienced a significant reduction in cash flows resulting in sharp reductions in their capital spending budgets for exploration-focused activities, including seismic activities. As a result, our seismic business segment has experienced a significant decline in product orders and associated revenue, resulting in substantial operating losses and the continued depletion of our cash balances. Due to the uncertainty concerning a recovery of crude oil prices to levels capable of sustaining increased seismic exploration activities, we expect these depressed market conditions to continue through fiscal year 2016 and beyond. Our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $38.8 million at June 30, 2016, including $6.6 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. We intend to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. If we were to repatriate the cash held by our foreign subsidiaries, we would be required to accrue and pay income taxes in the United States. Our credit agreement allows for borrowings of up to $30.0 million with such amounts available for borrowing determined by a borrowing base. At June 30, 2016, we had no outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement and our borrowing availability under the credit facility was $29.5 million due to outstanding letters of credit. At June 30, 2016, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement and we expect to remain in compliance with all covenants throughout fiscal year 2016. We currently do not anticipate the need to borrow from the credit agreement during fiscal year 2016 and for the foreseeable future; however, we can make no assurance that we will not do so. In March 2016, we received an $18.3 million income tax refund from the U.S. Department of Treasury. The refund was a result of the significant tax losses we experienced in fiscal year 2015 which we elected to carryback to our fiscal year 2013 U.S. tax return to recoup taxes previously paid. In addition, should we continue to incur significant pretax losses in fiscal year 2016, we will be eligible for a maximum tax refund of up to approximately $13 million upon the filing of our fiscal year 2016 U.S. tax return. We believe the combination of our existing cash balances, expected cash proceeds from executed rental contracts, short-term investments, future tax refunds and available borrowings under the credit agreement will be sufficient to finance our operating losses and planned capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Critical Accounting Policies During the nine months ended June 30, 2016, there has been no material change to our critical accounting policies discussed in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015. 21