Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The following equity plan information is provided as of September 30, 2019: Equity Compensation Plan Information Plan Category Number of Securities to be Issued upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights (a) Weighted-average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights (b) Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in Column (a)) (c) (In shares) (In dollars per share) (In shares) Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Security Holders (1) 302,890 19.15 (2) 477,015 Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security Holders Total 302,890 19.15 (2) 477,015 16 (1) The number of securities shown in column (c) represents number of securities remaining available for issuance under the Companys 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan (the 2014 Plan), which was approved by the Board and shareholders in February 2014. The 2014 Plan allows for the issuance of restricted stock awards, performance stock awards, performance stock unit awards, restricted stock unit awards (the foregoing, Full Value Awards), stock options and stock appreciation rights. For purposes of calculating the number of securities remaining under the 2014 Plan in column (c), Full Value Awards are counted as 1.5 shares for each share awarded. The number of securities shown in column (a) of the table above represents 120,600 stock options and 137,290 restricted stock unit awards outstanding under the 2014 Plan and 45,000 stock options outstanding under the 1997 Key Employee Stock Option Plan. (2) The calculation of the weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights excludes restricted stock unit awards. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities and Use of Proceeds None. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Not Required. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including under the heading Risk Factors. The discussion of our financial condition and results of operations includes various forward-looking statements about our markets, the demand for our products and services and our future plans and results. These statements are based on assumptions that we consider to be reasonable, but that could prove to be incorrect. For more information regarding our assumptions, you should refer to the section entitled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Assumptions below. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Assumptions This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein, if any, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the results and success of our transactions with Quantum and the OptoSeis technology, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, potential tenders for PRM systems, future demand for OBX systems, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefor, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and the provision of accounting reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our current judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors, as well as cautionary language in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Such examples include, but are not limited to, the failure of the Quantum or OptoSeis technology transactions to yield positive operating results, decreases in commodity price levels, which could reduce demand for our products, the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance, despite substantial investment by us, our sensitivity to short term backlog, delayed or cancelled customer orders, product obsolescence resulting from poor industry conditions or new technologies, bad debt write-offs associated with customer accounts, lack of further orders for our OBX systems, failure of our Quantum products to be adopted by the border and perimeter security market, infringement or failure to protect intellectual property. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current 17 expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Background We design and manufacture seismic instruments and equipment and primarily market these products to the oil and gas industry to locate, characterize and monitor hydrocarbon producing reservoirs. We also market our seismic products to other industries for vibration monitoring, border and perimeter security and various geotechnical applications. We design and manufacture other products of a non-seismic nature, including water meter products, imaging equipment and offshore cables. See the information under the heading Business in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Consolidated Results of Operations As we have reported in the past, our revenue and operating profits have varied significantly from quarter-to-quarter, and even year-to-year, and are expected to continue that trend in the future, especially when our quarterly or annual financial results are impacted by the presence or absence of relatively large, but somewhat erratic, sales of our oil and gas PRM systems and/or wireless seismic data acquisition systems for land and marine applications. Our revenue and results of operations have not been materially impacted by inflation or changing prices in the past two fiscal years. We report and evaluate financial information for three segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 2018 Oil and Gas Markets Traditional exploration product revenue $ 9,504 $ 12,855 Wireless exploration product revenue 52,770 27,254 Reservoir product revenue 2,692 4,842 Total revenue 64,966 44,951 Operating income (loss) 3,095 (14,070 ) Adjacent Markets Industrial product revenue 18,324 18,352 Imaging product revenue 11,832 11,580 Total revenue 30,156 29,932 Operating income 6,234 5,345 Emerging Markets Revenue 159 286 Operating loss (2,306 ) (718 ) Corporate Revenue 528 579 Operating loss (5,990 ) (11,300 ) Consolidated Totals Revenue 95,809 75,748 Operating loss 1,033 (20,743 ) Overview Early in calendar year 2014, our Oil and Gas Markets segment experienced a softening in the demand for its traditional exploration products, particularly in North America, as capital budgets for oil and gas producers were trending away from exploration-focused activities toward production and exploitation activities. During this period oil production in North Americas unconventional shale reservoirs increased, as did oil production from other non-OPEC countries, resulting in an oversupply of crude oil in the world market. Market prices for a barrel of West Texas Intermediate crude oil declined from over $100 in July 2014 to approximately $26 in February 2016, and have recovered to approximately $55 today. With this decline in oil prices, oil and gas exploration and production companies experienced a significant reduction in cash flows, which resulted in sharp reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic data acquisition activities. Our Oil and Gas Markets segment is now seeing significant demand for the rental of our marine wireless nodal products; however, the demand for new land-based seismic equipment in recent fiscal years has remained restrained due to capital limitations affecting many of our customers, along with their excess levels of underutilized equipment. As a result, revenue from the sale and rental of our land-based traditional and wireless 18 products has remained low due to reduced investment in exploration-focused seismic acti vities. We expect these challenging industry conditions will improve somewhat in fiscal year 2020, however, we expect revenue from our traditional and land-based wireless products to remain below historical norms. In light of current market conditions, the inventory balances in our Oil and Gas Markets business segment at September 30, 2019 continued to exceed levels we consider appropriate for the current level of product demand. While we are aggressively working to reduce these legacy inventory balances, we are also adding new inventories for new wireless product developments and for other product demand in our Adjacent Markets segment. During periods of excessive inventory levels, our policy has been, and will continue to be, to record obsolescence expense as we experience reduced product demand and as our inventories continue to age. If difficult market conditions continue for the products in our Oil and Gas Markets segment, we expect to record additional inventory obsolescence expense in fiscal year 2020 and beyond until product demand and/or resulting inventory turnover return to acceptable levels. In December 2017, we initiated a program to reduce operating costs in light of expected and continuing low levels of oil and gas product demand. The program produced approximately $6 million of annualized cash savings. The majority of these future cost reductions were realized through the reduction of over 60 employees from our Houston area workforce. In connection with the workforce reductions, we incurred $0.7 million of termination costs in our first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The termination costs were recorded to both cost of revenue and operating expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. There are no outstanding liabilities related to this program as of September 30, 2019. Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018 Consolidated revenue for fiscal year 2019 increased $20.1 million, or 26.5%, from fiscal year 2018. The increase in revenue primarily resulted from increased rental revenue in our Oil and Gas Markets segment from our OBX marine nodal products. Consolidated gross profit for fiscal year 2019 was $31.4 million, compared to $11.0 million for fiscal year 2018. The increase in gross profit primarily resulted from a significant increase in wireless product rental revenue caused by the high utilization of our expanding OBX rental fleet and a decline in unutilized factory costs due to higher manufacturing productivity from production of OBX nodes. While factory utilization has recently increased due to demand for the rental of our OBX marine nodal products, we expect our consolidated gross margins from the sale of our Oil and Gas Markets products to remain below historic norms until demand increases significantly for our land-based traditional and wireless seismic products. Consolidated operating expenses for fiscal year 2019 were $37.4 million, an increase of $5.7 million, or 18.1%, from fiscal year 2018. The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to incremental operating costs associated with our recent acquisitions of the Quantum and OptoSeis businesses. For fiscal year 2019, operating expenses increased $7.1 million due to acquisition-related operating costs, inclusive of intangible asset amortization expenses of $1.5 million. These acquisition-related increases in operating expenses were partially offset by a $2.1 million net non-cash reduction in the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out consideration related to our Quantum and OptoSeis acquisitions. The balance of the increased operating expenses relates to personnel wage increases and other general expense increases related to our business operations. In August 2019, we sold our real property located at 7334-7340 N. Gessner Road in Houston, Texas for a cash sales price of $8.3 million. We recognized a gain of $7.0 million from the sale of this property in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. The buyer had previously occupied the property as a tenant under a long-term lease. Consolidated other income for fiscal year 2019 increased $0.3 million from fiscal year 2018, or 30.2% from fiscal year 2018. This increase was primarily due to (i) an increase in interest charged to a customer for the late payment of our invoices and (ii) a decrease in foreign currency hedge financing fees. These increases in other income were partially offset by a decrease in foreign exchange gains. Consolidated income tax expense for fiscal year 2019 was $2.4 million compared to a tax benefit of $0.6 million for fiscal year 2018. The income tax expense in fiscal year 2019 primarily reflects foreign withholding tax assessed on our rental income. The income tax benefit for fiscal year 2018 primarily reflects a $0.7 million refund resulting from the filing of an amended U.S. tax return. We are currently unable to record any tax benefits from the tax losses we incur in the U.S. and Canada due to the uncertainty surrounding our ability to utilize such losses in the future to offset taxable income. 19 Segment Results of Operations Oil and Gas Markets Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018 Revenue Revenue from our Oil and Gas Markets products for fiscal year 2019 increased $20.0 million, or 44.5%, from the prior fiscal year. The components of this increase include the following: Traditional Exploration Product Revenue Revenue from our traditional products decreased $3.4 million, or 26.1% from the prior fiscal year. The decrease primarily reflects lower demand for our specialty sensor products and customer product repairs. The decrease was partially offset by higher demand for our marine products. Wireless Exploration Product Revenue Revenue from our wireless exploration products increased $25.5 million, or 93.6%, from the prior fiscal year. The increase resulted from higher rental demand for our OBX systems. The increase was partially offset by a decline in demand for sales and rental of our GSX wireless products. Reservoir Product Revenue Revenue from our reservoir products decreased $2.2 million, or 44.4%, from the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in sales of our borehole products and lower service revenue. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income associated with our Oil and Gas Markets products for fiscal year 2019 was $3.1 million, compared to an operating loss of $(14.1) million from the prior fiscal year. The improvement in our operating income primarily resulted from (i) an increase in wireless rental revenue and gross profits from our OBX systems and (ii) a decline in unutilized factory costs due to higher productivity. Partially offsetting these operating income improvements is an $0.8 million adjustment to increase our operating expenses due to an increase in the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out consideration related to our recent OptoSeis acquisition. Adjacent Markets Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018 Revenue Revenue from our Adjacent Markets products for fiscal year 2019 increased $0.2 million, or 0.7%, from the prior fiscal year. The components of this increase included the following: Industrial Product Revenue and Services Revenue from our industrial products decreased $28,000, or 0.2% from the prior fiscal year. The decrease in revenue primarily attributable to lower demand for our water meter products. These decreases were partially offset by increased demand for our industrial sensor products. Imaging Product Revenue Revenue from our imaging products increased $0.3 million, or 2.2%, from the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to higher demand for our equipment and film products. We consider this small change in revenue to be normal and not indicative of any particular trend in product demand. Operating Income The operating income from our Adjacent Markets products for fiscal year 2019 increased $0.9 million or 16.6%, from the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating income resulted from efficiencies gained in our manufacturing efforts and lower operating personnel costs. Emerging Markets Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018 Revenue On July 27, 2018, we entered the border and perimeter security market through our acquisition of Quantum. In connection with the Quantum acquisition, we established the Emerging Markets business segment, which currently includes only Quantum. Revenue from our Emerging Markets products for fiscal year 2019 decreased $0.1 million, or 44.4%, from the prior fiscal year. The 20 decrease in revenue prima rily resulted from the completion of contracts that existed when Quantum was acquired. Quantum did not receive any significant border and perimeter security contracts during fiscal year 2019. Operating Loss Our operating loss from our Emerging Markets products for fiscal year 2019 increased $1.6 million, or 221.2% from the prior fiscal year. Since its acquisition in July 2018, Quantum has primarily focused on product development activities, and the marketing of its technologies to government agencies and other end users. Fiscal year 2018 includes approximately two months of Quantums operating activities while fiscal year 2019 includes a full year of operating activities. Included in Quantums operating expenses for fiscal years 2019 and 2018 are intangible asset amortization expenses of $1.2 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Also included in Quantums operating expenses for fiscal year 2019 is a $2.9 million adjustment to decrease Quantums operating expenses caused by a decrease in the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out consideration related to our acquisition of Quantum. We expect Quantum to incur operating losses into the future until it obtains revenue-generating contracts that are sufficiently able to support its current cost structure. Liquidity and Capital Resources Fiscal Year 2019 At September 30, 2019, we had approximately $18.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. For fiscal year 2019, we generated $5.6 million of cash from operating activities. Our net loss of $0.1 million included net non-cash charges of $24.6 million resulting from deferred income taxes, depreciation, amortization, accretion, inventory obsolescence, stock-based compensation, bad debt expense and changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration. These net non-cash charges were partially offset by (i) a $9.2 million increase in trade accounts and financing receivables resulting from the increase in revenue and delays in collecting funds owed from a rental customer, (ii) a $1.9 million increase in inventories for the production of recently introduced land-based wireless seismic products, (iii) the removal of a $7.1 million gain from the sale of real property and equipment since such gains are reflected in the proceeds from the sale of property and equipment under investing activities and (iv) a $1.0 decrease in deferred revenue due to the revenue recognition of customer deposits on rental contracts. For fiscal year 2019, we generated cash of $1.6 million from investing activities. Sources of cash included (i) $25.6 million of proceeds from the sale of short-term investments, (ii) $8.3 million of proceeds from the sale of a real property (iii) $4.9 million of proceeds from the sale of rental equipment and (iv) $0.5 million of proceeds, net of payments, from a property-related insurance claim. These sources of cash were partially offset by (i) $34.1 million investment in our rental equipment primarily to expand our OBX rental fleet, (ii) $1.9 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment and (iii) $1.8 million for the acquisition of the intellectual property and related assets of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology business. Depending on demand for our marine OBX rental equipment, we expect fiscal year 2020 cash investments into our rental fleet to be approximately $6 million. We estimate total fiscal year 2020 cash investments in property, plant and equipment could be up to $5 million. Our capital expenditures are expected to be funded from our cash on hand, internal cash flows, cash flows from our rental contracts or, if necessary, from borrowings under our credit agreement. For fiscal year 2019, we generated cash proceeds of $0.2 million from financing activities from the exercise of stock options by our employees. We had no long-term debt outstanding throughout the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019. The significant crude oil price volatility that began in 2014 continues today, stifling budgets targeted at the oil and gas exploration industry, including the seismic industry. OPEC and other crude oil producing/exporting nations appear united in their efforts to maintain equilibrium between current worldwide crude oil supply and demand. If worldwide crude oil supplies and associated prices stabilize, these factors and developing trends bode well for the oil and gas industry and we expect to participate in any resurgence in demand for new seismic equipment that may be forthcoming. While we are seeing some signs of increased seismic activity in certain areas around the world, the need for new seismic equipment remains restrained due to capital limitations affecting many of our customers along with excessive on-hand quantities of under-utilized seismic equipment. We expect product sales of our Oil and Gas Markets products, and in particular our legacy land-based traditional and wireless products, to remain low until exploration-focused seismic activities increase, which we believe will eventually result from the ongoing depletion of existing reservoirs prompting the need to find new sources of oil and gas. We expect these challenging industry conditions facing our land-based traditional and legacy wireless products will continue in fiscal year 2020. Our trade accounts receivable at September 30, 2019 include $8.5 million due from an international seismic marine customer that, as of September 30, 2019 rented a significant amount of our marine nodal equipment. We experienced cash collection difficulties with this customer throughout fiscal year 2019 due to the customers inability to generate enough cash flow to pay its obligations to us in a timely manner. In November 2019, we accepted from the customer a plan to bring our current and future unpaid invoices to a satisfactory status. This plan contemplates completion during our second fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2020, and is premised upon the customers (i) projections of free cash flows from an existing contract with a third-party and (ii) potential access to capital transactions and/or future borrowing availability from its bank. While we have significant concerns about the ultimate collection of this customers accounts receivable, we have not, and do not currently intend to, provide any significant bad debt 21 reserves toward this customers outstanding accounts receivable balance unless and until it becomes probable (in our judgement) that the customer cannot (i) generate free cash flows from its existing contract and (ii) complete capital tr ansactions and/or borrow from its bank. Our available cash and cash equivalents totaled $18.9 million at September 30, 2019, which included $7.0 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law on December 22, 2017, creates new taxes on certain foreign earnings and also requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on undistributed earnings of their foreign subsidiaries which were previously tax deferred. We have determined that we are not required to pay any transition tax on the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries since we had no accumulated earnings on a consolidated basis. Our credit agreement allows for borrowings of up to $30.0 million with such amounts available for borrowing determined by a borrowing base. In November 2018, we extended the maturity of the credit agreement from April 2019 to April 2020. In March 2019, we entered into an amendment to the credit agreement that altered the unencumbered liquid assets covenant to (i) reduce the minimum threshold from $10 million to $5 million and (ii) include unencumbered liquid assets held outside the United States. The amendment also added another financial covenant that requires us to maintain a tangible net worth of not less than $140 million. Additionally, pursuant to the amendment, our principal place of business and the related real estate, located at 7007 Pinemont Drive, Houston, Texas was added as collateral securing our obligations under the credit agreement. In November 2019, we further amended the credit agreement to (i) extend the maturity date from April 2020 to April 2022, (ii) increase the unencumbered liquid assets covenant threshold from $5 million to $10 million effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, (iii) to increase the tangible net worth requirement from $140 million to $145 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and (iv) remove the requirement that we obtain the consent of Frost Bank prior to paying dividends or repurchasing stock so long as we are in compliance with the covenants of the credit agreement. At September 30, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement and our borrowing availability under the credit facility was $27.0 million. At September 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement. We currently do not anticipate the need to borrow under the credit agreement; however, we can make no assurance that we will not do so. In August 2019, we sold our real property located at 7334 N. Gessner in Houston, Texas for $8.3 million. We recognized a $7.0 million gain on the disposal of the property in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. The buyer occupied the property as a tenant under a long-term lease. The property was not strategic to our ongoing operations. In fiscal years 2016, 2017 and 2018, we received income tax refunds of $18.3 million, $12.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively, from the U.S. Department of Treasury. These refunds were a result of the significant tax losses we experienced in fiscal years 2016 and 2015, which we elected to carryback and recoup taxes previously paid. For U.S. income tax purposes, we are now in a loss carryforward position in regards to our tax losses occurring in fiscal year 2017 and beyond. As a result, our current tax losses will not result in any additional U.S. federal income tax refunds. The tax refunds we received in fiscal years 2016 and 2017 were significant contributors to our overall liquidity. In the absence of future profitable results of operations, we may need to rely on other sources of liquidity to fund our future operations, including executed rental contracts, available borrowings under our credit agreement through its expiration in April 2020, leveraging or sale of real estate assets, sales of rental assets and other liquidity sources which may be available to us. However, currently we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to finance any future operating losses and planned capital expenditures through the next twelve months. Fiscal Year 2018 At September 30, 2018, we had approximately $11.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and $25.5 million in short-term investments. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, we used $10.4 million of cash in operating activities. In addition to our net loss of $19.2 million, we incurred other uses of cash in our operations including (i) a $5.1 million increase in trade accounts receivable resulting from the timing of collections from customers, (ii) a $4.3 million increase in inventories for the production of OBX products and recently introduced land-based wireless seismic products and (iii) the removal of a $6.8 million gross profit from the sale of used rental equipment since such gross profit is reflected in the proceeds from the sale of used rental equipment under investing activities. These uses of cash were offset by (i) net non-cash charges of $22.7 million from deferred income taxes, depreciation, amortization, impairment, accretion, inventory obsolescence, stock-based compensation and bad debt expense, (ii) a $1.3 million increase in accounts payable associated with inventory purchases and the timing of payments to suppliers, (iii) a $3.1 million increase in deferred revenue due to the receipt from customers of deposits for rental contracts and (iv) an increase of $1.0 million in accrued and other expenses. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, we generated cash of $7.8 million from investing activities. Sources of cash included (i) $10.5 million of net proceeds from the sale of short-term investments, (ii) $9.9 million of proceeds from the sale of rental equipment and (iii) $2.1 million in insurance proceeds and claims receivable related to a property insurance claim. These sources of cash were partially offset by (i) a down payment of $4.4 million for the Quantum acquisition, (ii) $6.5 million to expand our rental 22 fleet, (iii) $1.7 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment and ( iv) $2.4 million in payments for damages related to the insurance claim. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, we generated cash proceeds of $63,000 from financing activities from the exercise of stock options by our employees. We had no long-term debt outstanding throughout the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any obligations which meet the definition of an off-balance sheet arrangement and which have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial statements or the items contained therein that are material to investors. Contractual Obligations Contingent Consideration We recorded an initial contingent earn-out liability of $7.7 million in connection with our July 2018 acquisition of Quantum. Contingent payments, if any, may be paid in the form of cash or Company stock and will be derived from eligible revenue generated during a four-year earn-out period subsequent to the closing of the acquisition. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.5 million over the earn-out period. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, we recorded a $2.9 million adjustment to decrease the initial earn-out liability to its estimated fair value. We recorded an initial contingent earn-out liability of $4.3 million in connection with our November 2018 acquisition of all the intellectual property and related assets of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology. Contingent cash payments, if any, will be derived from eligible revenue generated during a five-and-a-half year earn-out period subsequent to the closing of the acquisition from products and services utilizing the OptoSeis fiber optic technology. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.2 million over the earn-out period. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, we recorded an $0.8 million adjustment to increase the initial earn-out liability to its estimated fair value. We will reassess the earn-out calculations related to this contingent consideration in future periods. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. We consider many factors in selecting appropriate operational and financial accounting policies and controls, and in developing the estimates and assumptions that are used in the preparation of these financial statements. We continually evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debt reserves, inventory obsolescence reserves, self-insurance reserves for medical expenses, product warranty reserves, contingent consideration, stock-based compensation and deferred income tax assets. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other factors, including the impact from the current economic conditions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different conditions or assumptions. Our normal credit terms for trade receivables are 30 days. In certain situations, credit terms for trade receivables may be extended to 60 days or longer and such receivables generally do not require collateral. Additionally, we provide long-term financing in the form of promissory notes and sales-type leases when competitive conditions require such financing and, in such cases, we may require collateral. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our accounts and financing receivables, and allowances are recognized for potential credit losses. Our long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever an event or change in circumstances indicates the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. The impairment review, if necessary, includes a comparison of expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) to be generated by an asset group with the associated carrying value of the related assets. If the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the expected future cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying value of the asset group exceeds its fair value. Management makes judgments regarding the interpretation of tax laws that might be challenged upon an audit and cause changes to previous estimates of tax liability. In addition, we operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in these jurisdictions as well as by the Internal Revenue Service. In managements opinion, adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all open tax years. The potential outcomes of examinations are regularly assessed in determining the adequacy of the provision for income taxes and income tax liabilities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for reasonable and foreseeable outcomes related to uncertain tax matters. 23 We record a write-down of our inventories when the cost basis of any manufactured product, including any estimated future costs to complete the manufacturing process, exceeds its net realizable value. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net rea lizable value. Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out method, except that our subsidiaries in the Russian Federation and the United Kingdom use an average cost method to value their inventories. We periodically review the composition of our inventories to determine if market demand, product modifications, technology changes, excessive quantities on-hand and other factors hinder our ability to recover our investment in such inventories. Managements assessment is based upon historical product demand, estimated future product demand and various other judgments and estimates. Inventory obsolescence reserves are recorded when such assessments reveal that portions or components of our inventory investment will not be realized in our operating activities. The value of our inventories not expected to be realized in cash, sold or consumed during our next operating cycle are classified as non-current assets in our consolidated balance sheets. We recognize revenue from product sales and services in accordance with ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . This standard applies to contracts for the sale of products and services and does not apply to contracts for the rental or lease of products. Under this standard, we recognize revenue when performance of contractual obligations are satisfied, generally when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Revenue from product sales is recognized when obligations under the terms of a contract are satisfied, control is transferred and collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. Transfer of control generally occurs with shipment or delivery, depending on the terms of the underlying contract. Our products are generally sold without any customer acceptance provisions, and our standard terms of sale do not allow customers to return products for credit. Most of our products do not require installation assistance or sophisticated instruction. We offer a standard product warranty, which obligates us to repair or replace our products having manufacturing defects. We maintain a reserve for future warranty costs based on historical experience or, in the absence of historical experience, management estimates. Revenue from engineering services is recognized as services are rendered over the duration of a project or as billed on a per hour basis. Field service revenue is recognized when services are rendered and is generally priced on a per day rate. We recognize rental revenue as earned over the rental period. Rentals of our equipment generally range from daily rentals to rental periods of up to six months or longer. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Managements Current Outlook and Assumptions Regarding our Oil and Gas Markets business segment, prices for a barrel of WTI crude oil declined from over $100 in July 2014 to approximately $26 in February 2016, and have recovered to approximately $55 today. With this substantial net decline in crude oil prices, oil and gas exploration and production companies experienced a significant reduction in cash flows, which resulted in sharp reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic data acquisition activities. While we are now seeing some signs of increased oil and gas exploration activity around the world, the need for new seismic equipment, particularly land-based equipment, remains restrained due to our customers (i) limited capital resources, (ii) lack of visibility into future demand for their seismic services and (iii) in some cases, under-utilized legacy equipment. Many of our traditional seismic products are damaged, destroyed or otherwise consumed during field operations. We expect fiscal year 2020 demand for our land-based traditional seismic products to increase slightly over fiscal year 2019 levels. We have recently introduced the GCL which is a new version of our land-based wireless data recorder. This version contains several unique features not found in competitive models and we have received positive customer feedback regarding these features and its overall functionality. We recently sold 5,000 GCL stations to a European customer and we recently received an order to deliver 30,000 stations to another customer. While we believe the GCL will be a market leader similar to our GSX wireless unit, beyond the recently received order for 30,000 stations it is uncertain what revenue impact this product will have during fiscal year 2020 in light of the tepid market demand for oil and gas seismic services and equipment. However, we expect our fiscal year 2020 land-based wireless product revenue to exceed the levels we achieved in fiscal year 2019. The vast majority of our oil and gas rental revenue in fiscal year 2019 was derived from short-term rentals of our OBX ocean-bottom recorder. We believe our OBX rental revenue will increase further in fiscal year 2020 as a result of rental contracts we executed in fiscal year 2019 and from additional demand we continue to see for this product. We believe that fiscal year 2020 revenue from our oil and gas reservoir products, and principally our borehole tools and services, will be similar to the revenues we achieved in fiscal year 2019. We have not received any orders for large-scale seabed PRM systems since November 2012 and we currently do not have any indication that such an order will be received in fiscal year 2020, 24 although we do believe opportunities for PRM orders do exist in todays market. If a large-scale order were received in fiscal year 202 0, it could significantly impact our fiscal year 2020 revenue and profits. We expect fiscal year 2020 revenue from our Adjacent Markets products to increase over fiscal year 2019 levels. We expect our industrial products to contribute the majority of this increase as a result of expanded market acceptance of these products. We expect fiscal year 2020 revenue from our Emerging Markets products to increase over fiscal year 2019 as a result of anticipated market acceptance of our border and perimeter security surveillance products.