Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2017. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents incorporated by reference herein, if any, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefore, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and the provision of accounting reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, as well as other cautionary language in such Annual Report and this Quarterly Report, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Such examples include, but are not limited to, decreases in commodity price levels, which could reduce demand for our products, the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance, despite substantial investment by us, our sensitivity to short term backlog, delayed or cancelled customer orders, product obsolescence resulting from poor industry conditions or new technologies, bad debt write-offs associated with customer accounts, lack of further orders for our OBX systems, failure of our non-seismic products to be adopted by the border and security perimeter market, infringement or failure to protect intellectual property, the failure of the acquisition transaction to yield positive operating results, and any negative impact from our restatement of our financial statements regarding current assets. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Business Overview Geospace Technologies Corporation reincorporated as a Texas corporation on April 16, 2015. We originally incorporated as a Delaware corporation on September 27, 1994. Unless otherwise specified, the discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refers to Geospace Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. We design and manufacture instruments and equipment used in the oil and gas industry to acquire seismic data in order to locate, characterize and monitor hydrocarbon producing reservoirs. We also design and manufacture non-seismic products, including industrial products, offshore cables and imaging equipment. We report and categorize our customers and products into two different segments: Seismic and Non-Seismic. We have engaged in the seismic instrument and equipment business since 1980 and market our products primarily to the oil and gas industry. Demand for our products has been, and will likely continue to be, vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the oil and gas industry in general. For more information, please refer to the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SECs public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on their public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on our website at http://www.geospace.com. From time to time, we may post investor presentations on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or posted in the future, is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 15 Products and Product Development Seismic Products Our seismic business segment has historically accounted for the majority of our revenue. Geoscientists use seismic data primarily in connection with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves to map potential and known hydrocarbon bearing formations and the geologic structures that surround them. Our seismic product lines currently consist of land and marine nodal data acquisition systems, permanent land and seabed reservoir monitoring products and services, geophones and geophone strings, hydrophones, leader wire, connectors, telemetry cables, marine streamer retrieval and steering devices and various other products. Our seismic products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. We believe that our seismic products are among the most technologically advanced instruments and equipment available for seismic data acquisition. Traditional Products An energy source and a data recording system are combined to acquire seismic data. We provide many of the components of seismic data recording systems, including geophones, hydrophones, multi-component sensors, leader wire, geophone strings, connectors, seismic telemetry cables and other seismic related products. On land, our customers use geophones, leader wire, cables and connectors to receive and measure seismic reflections resulting from an energy source into data recording units, which store the seismic information for subsequent processing and analysis. In the marine environment, large ocean-going vessels tow long seismic cables known as streamers containing hydrophones which are used to detect pressure changes. Hydrophones transmit electrical impulses back to the vessels data recording unit where the seismic data is stored for subsequent processing and analysis. Our marine seismic products also help steer streamers while being towed and help recover streamers if they become disconnected from the vessel. Our seismic sensor, cable and connector products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. Revenue from these products results primarily from seismic contractors purchasing our products as components of new seismic data acquisition systems or to repair and replace components of seismic data acquisition systems already in use. Our products used in marine seismic data acquisition include our seismic streamer retrieval devices (SRDs). Occasionally, streamer cables are severed and become disconnected from the vessel as a result of obstacles, inclement weather, vessel traffic or human error. Our SRDs, which are attached to the streamer cables, contain air bags which are designed to inflate automatically at a given water depth, bringing the severed streamer cables to the surface. These SRDs save the seismic contractors significant time and money compared to the alternative of losing the streamer cable. We also produce seismic streamer steering devices, or birds, which are fin-like devices that attach to the streamer cable. These birds help maintain the streamer cable at a certain desired depth as it is being towed through the water. Wireless Products We have developed a land-based wireless (or nodal) seismic data acquisition system called the GSX. Rather than utilizing interconnecting cables as required by most traditional land data acquisition systems, each GSX station operates as an independent data collection system, allowing our GSX stations to be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations. As a result, our GSX system requires less maintenance, which we believe allows our customers to operate more effectively and efficiently because of its reduced environmental impact, lower weight and ease of operation. Our GSX system is designed into configurations ranging from one to four channels per station. Since its introduction in 2008 and through June 30, 2018, we have sold 417,000 GSX channels and we have 92,000 GSX channels in our rental fleet. We have also developed a marine-based wireless seismic data acquisition system called the OBX. Similar to our GSX land-based wireless system, the marine OBX system can be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations and does not require interconnecting cables between each station. Our deep water versions of the OBX system can be deployed in depths of up to 3,450 meters. Through June 30, 2018, we have sold approximately 600 OBX stations and we have 13,000 OBX stations in our rental fleet. Reservoir Products Seismic surveys repeated over selected time intervals show dynamic changes within the reservoir and can be used to monitor the effects of oil and gas development and production. In this regard, we have developed permanently installed high-definition reservoir monitoring systems for land and ocean-bottom applications in producing oil and gas fields. We also produce a retrievable version of our ocean-bottom system for use on fields where permanently installed systems are not appropriate or economical. Utilizing these tools, producers can enhance the recovery of oil and gas deposits over the life of a reservoir. 16 Our high-definition reservoir monitoring products include the HDSeis product line and a suite of borehol e and reservoir monitoring products and services. Our HDSeis system is a high-definition seismic data acquisition system with flexible architecture that allows it to be configured as a borehole seismic system or as a subsurface system for both land and m arine reservoir-monitoring projects. The scalable architecture of the HDSeis system enables custom designed system configuration for applications ranging from low-channel engineering and environmental-scale surveys requiring a minimum number of recording channels to high-channel surveys required to efficiently conduct permanent reservoir monitoring (PRM). Modular architecture allows virtually unlimited channel expansion. In addition, multi-system synchronization features make the HDSeis system well s uited for multi-well or multi-site acquisition, simultaneous surface and downhole acquisition and continuous reservoir monitoring projects. Reservoir monitoring requires special purpose or custom designed systems in which portability becomes less critical and functional reliability assumes greater importance. This reliability factor helps assure successful operations in inaccessible locations over a considerable period of time. Additionally, reservoirs located in deep water or harsh environments require special instrumentation and new techniques to maximize recovery. Reservoir monitoring also requires high-bandwidth, high-resolution seismic data for engineering project planning and reservoir management. We believe our HDSeis System and tools, designed for cost-effective deployment and lifetime performance, will make borehole and seabed seismic acquisition a cost-effective and reliable process for the challenges of reservoir monitoring. Our multi-component seismic product developments include an omni-directional geophone for use in reservoir monitoring, a compact marine three-component or four-component gimbaled sensor and special-purpose connectors, connector arrays and cases. We have not received orders for any permanent reservoir monitoring systems since November 2012. In addition, we produce seismic borehole acquisition systems which employ a fiber optic augmented wireline capable of very high data transmission rates. These systems are used for several reservoir monitoring applications, including an application pioneered by us allowing operators and service companies to monitor and measure the results of fracturing operations. Non-Seismic Products Our non-seismic businesses leverage upon our existing manufacturing facilities and engineering capabilities. We have found that many of our seismic products, with little or no modification, have direct application to industries beyond those involved in oil and gas exploration and development. For example, our customers utilize our borehole tools to monitor subsurface carbon dioxide injections and for mine safety applications. Our non-seismic products include electronic pre-press products that employ direct thermal imaging and digital inkjet printing technologies targeted at the commercial graphics, industrial graphics, textile and flexographic printing industries. Our other non-seismic products consist of (i) sensors and tools for vibration monitoring, mine safety, earthquake detection and security applications, (ii) cables for power and communication for the offshore oil and gas and offshore construction industries, (iii) water meter cables and connectors, and (iv) other specialty industrial cable and connector products. 17 Consolidated Results of Operations We report and evaluate financial information for two segments: Seismic and Non-Seismic. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended June 30, 2018 June 30, 2017 June 30, 2018 June 30, 2017 Seismic Traditional exploration product revenue $ 2,582 $ 3,604 $ 9,559 $ 9,811 Wireless exploration product revenue 7,890 2,681 17,560 18,605 Reservoir product revenue 1,873 1,023 4,552 2,242 Total revenue 12,345 7,308 31,671 30,658 Operating loss (4,122 ) (11,972 ) (15,552 ) (30,581 ) Non-Seismic Industrial product revenue 5,674 3,873 14,061 10,253 Imaging product revenue 3,104 2,868 8,997 8,692 Total revenue 8,778 6,741 23,058 18,945 Operating income 1,428 1,004 3,841 3,108 Corporate Revenue 147 146 432 435 Operating loss (2,442 ) (2,806 ) (8,252 ) (8,672 ) Consolidated Totals Revenue 21,270 14,195 55,161 50,038 Operating loss (5,136 ) (13,774 ) (19,963 ) (36,145 ) Overview Early in calendar year 2014, we experienced a softening in the demand for our seismic exploration products, particularly in North America, as capital budgets for oil and gas producers were trending away from exploration-focused activities toward production and exploitation activities. During this period oil production in North Americas unconventional shale reservoirs increased, as did oil production from other non-OPEC countries, resulting in an oversupply of crude oil in the world market. Market prices for a barrel of crude oil declined from over $100 in July 2014 to approximately $27 in January 2016, and have recovered to approximately $69 today. With this decline in oil and natural gas prices, oil and gas exploration and production companies experienced a significant reduction in cash flows, which resulted in sharp reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic activities. While we are seeing some signs of increased seismic activity around the world, the need for new seismic equipment remains restrained due to capital limitations affecting many of our customers along with excess unutilized equipment. We expect revenue from our seismic products, and in particular our traditional and wireless products, to remain low until exploration-focused seismic activities increase which we believe will result from the ongoing depletion of existing reservoirs prompting the need to find new sources of oil and gas. We expect these challenging industry conditions will continue for the remaining months of fiscal year 2018 and into fiscal year 2019. In September 2017, we were notified by Statoil that it would soon request quotes for two new PRM systems which were required to utilize fiber optic sensor technology. This contract was subsequently awarded to Alcatel in January 2018. Since our PRM designs utilize electrical sensor technology, we were not able to participate with a quotation for the design and manufacture of these PRM systems. We believe that our PRM system designs, which utilize electrical sensor technology, provide the best long-term functionality and performance of any PRM system, and we continue to aggressively market our PRM systems to major oil and gas companies. However, the occurrence of this notice from Statoil, combined with the absence of any new PRM orders of any technology type since November 2012, caused us to record $5.1 million of obsolescence reserves and $5.3 million of impairment reserves in September 2017 related to our PRM inventories and manufacturing equipment, respectively. In December 2017, we initiated a program to reduce operating costs in light of expected and continuing low levels of seismic product demand. The program is expected to produce approximately $6 million of annualized cash savings. The majority of the future cost reductions will be realized through the reduction of over 60 employees from our Houston area workforce. In connection with the workforce reductions, we incurred $0.7 million of termination costs in our first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The termination costs were recorded to both cost of revenue and operating expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. No further termination costs are expected and there are no outstanding liabilities related to this program as of June 30, 2018. 18 Three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017 Consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased $7.1 million, or 49.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. This increase was due to significant increases in both our seismic and non-seismic product revenue. Consolidated revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2018, increased $5.1 million, or 10.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in our non-seismic product revenue. Consolidated gross profit (loss) for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was $4.7 million, compared to a loss of ($5.1) million for the corresponding period of prior fiscal year. Consolidated gross profit (loss) for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was $5.7 million, compared to a loss of ($11.0) million for the corresponding period of prior fiscal year. The improvement in gross profit (loss) for both periods resulted from (i) an increase in revenue, and principally an increase in rental revenue combined with declining depreciation expense associated with rental equipment, (ii) a $3.0 and $8.1 million decrease in inventory obsolescence expense for the three months and nine months ended June 30, 2018, and (iii) a reduction in fixed manufacturing costs derived from workforce reductions occurring in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. Until seismic product demand increases resulting in increased utilization of our factory, we expect our consolidated gross margins to remain below historic norms. In light of current market conditions, our seismic product inventories at June 30, 2018 continue to exceed levels considered appropriate for our current level of product demand. While we are aggressively working to reduce these legacy inventory balances, we are also adding new inventories for recent product developments and other product demand. During periods of excessive inventory levels, our policy has been, and will continue to be, to record obsolescence expense in our consolidated income statement as we experience reduced levels of inventory turnover and as our inventories continue to age. If difficult market conditions continue, we expect to record additional inventory obsolescence expense in fiscal year 2018 and beyond until seismic product demand and resulting seismic inventory turnover returns to acceptable levels. Consolidated operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 were $9.8 million, an increase of $1.2 million, or 13.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated operating expenses for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 were $25.7 million, an increase of $0.5 million, or 2.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating expenses for both periods was primarily due to a $2.6 million bad debt expense attributable to a trade accounts receivable from a customer which filed for bankruptcy protection during the quarter ended June 30, 2018. Excluding bad debt expense (recovery), operating expenses decreased $1.6 million and $3.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018. This decrease was primarily due to lower stock-based compensation expense, workforce reductions and a decline in research and development project costs. Consolidated other income for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was $0.4 million, compared to $46,000 from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in other income was primarily due to an increase in foreign exchange gains and foreign currency hedge financing fees offset by an increase in interest income resulting from increased financing receivables. Consolidated other income (expense) for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was $0.3 million, compared to ($16,000) from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to an increase in interest income resulting from increased financing receivables and a decrease in foreign exchange losses, and was partially offset by an increase in foreign currency hedge financing fees. Consolidated income tax expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was $0.1 million compared to $0.6 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Consolidated income tax expense (benefit) for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was $(0.6) million compared to $1.4 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Our effective tax rates for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were (1.1)% and (4.7)%, respectively. Our effective tax rates for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were 3.1% and (3.9)%, respectively. The United States statutory tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were 24.5% (blended) and 35%, respectively. Compared to the United States statutory rate, the lower effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 primarily resulted from our inability to recognize any tax benefits for the tax losses we incurred in the U.S. and Canada due to the uncertainty surrounding our ability to utilize these losses in the future to offset taxable income. In addition, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company amended its prior year U.S. tax return to claim a $0.7 million refund. Seismic Products Revenue Revenue from our seismic products for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased $5.0 million, or 68.9%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our seismic products for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 19 $1.0 million, or 3.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of these increases include the following: Traditional Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2018, revenue from our traditional products decreased $1.0 million, or 28.4% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, revenue from our traditional products decreased $0.3 million, or 2.6% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in both periods primarily reflects lower demand for our specialty sensor products. Wireless Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2018, revenue from our wireless exploration products increased by $5.2 million, or 194.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. This increase primarily resulted from an increase in rentals of our OBX wireless products. For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, revenue from our wireless exploration products decreased by $1.0 million, or 5.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. This decrease was primarily due to lower OBX product sales, partially offset by an increase in both OBX and GSX wireless rental revenue. Reservoir Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2018, revenue from our reservoir products increased $0.9 million, or 83.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, revenue from our reservoir products increased $2.3 million, or 103.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for both periods primarily reflects revenue received from the sale of borehole tools from our rental fleet and higher service revenue. Operating Loss Our operating loss associated with our seismic products for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased $7.9 million, or 65.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior year. Our operating loss associated with our seismic products for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 decreased $15.0 million, or 49.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior year. The decrease in operating loss for both periods resulted from increased revenue and both cash and non-cash cost reductions. These cost improvements were partially offset by increased bad debt expense in both periods. Non-Seismic Products Revenue Revenue from our non-seismic products for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased $2.0 million, or 30.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our non-seismic products for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased $4.1 million, or 21.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of these increases included the following: Industrial Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2018, revenue from our industrial products increased $1.8 million, or 46.5% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, revenue from our industrial products increased $3.8 million, or 37.1% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for both periods was primarily attributable to higher demand for our water meter products as well as higher revenue contributions from contract manufacturing and industrial sensor products. Imaging Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2018, revenue from our imaging products increased $0.2 million, or 8.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, revenue from our imaging products increased $0.3 million, or 3.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for both periods was primarily attributable to higher demand for our film products. Operating Income Our operating income associated with revenue from our non-seismic products for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased $0.4 million, or 42.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Our operating income associated with sales of our non-seismic products for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased $0.7 million, or 23.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for both periods primarily resulted from increased industrial product revenue. 20 Liquidit y and Capital Resources At June 30, 2018, we had approximately $12.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $27.0 million in short-term investments. For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, we used $12.1 million of cash in operating activities. Our net loss of $19.0 million was offset by (i) net non-cash charges of $20.0 million from deferred income taxes, depreciation, impairment, accretion, inventory obsolescence, stock-based compensation and bad debt expense and (ii) a $1.4 million increase in accounts payable associated with inventory purchases and the timing of payments to suppliers. Other uses of cash in our operations included (i) a $3.9 million increase in trade accounts receivable resulting from the timing of collections from customers, (ii) a $5.7 increase in inventories for the production of OBX products and recently introduced land-based wireless seismic products, (iii) a $1.2 million increase in prepaid and other assets primarily due an increase in deferred rent receivable and (iv) the removal of a $5.0 million gross profit from the sale of used rental equipment since such gross profit is reflected in the proceeds from the sale of used rental equipment under investing activities. For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, we generated cash of $9.8 million from investing activities. Sources of cash included (i) $9.0 million of net proceeds from the sale of short-term investments and (ii) $4.3 million of proceeds from the sale of rental equipment and (iii) $1.7 million in insurance proceeds and claims receivable related to a property insurance claim. These sources of cash were partially offset by (i) $2.5 million to expand our rental fleet, (ii) $1.0 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment and (iii) $2.0 in payments for damages related to the insurance claim. We expect fiscal year 2018 cash investments into our rental fleet to be approximately $4 million. We estimate total fiscal year 2018 cash investments in property, plant and equipment will be approximately $2 million. Our capital expenditures are expected to be funded from our cash on hand, internal cash flow or, if necessary, from borrowings under our credit agreement. For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, we generated cash proceeds of $19,000 from financing activities from the exercise of stock options by our employees. We had no long-term debt outstanding throughout the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 or for the nine months ended June 30, 2018. Crude oil prices have recently increased to their highest level in three years, although the current price level of crude oil remains significantly below the peak price levels seen in 2014. OPEC and other crude oil producing/exporting nations appear united in their efforts to maintain agreed-upon supply cuts aimed at reducing the glut of crude oil in storage around the world. If these efforts to obtain an economic equilibrium in worldwide crude oil supplies are successful, crude oil prices may stabilize or even drift higher in the months to come. These factors and developing trends bode well for the oil and gas geophysical industry and we expect to participate in any resurgence in seismic equipment demand that may be forthcoming. While we are seeing some signs of increased seismic activity around the world, the need for new seismic equipment remains restrained due to capital limitations affecting many of our customers along with excess unutilized equipment. We expect revenue from our seismic products, and in particular our traditional and wireless products, to remain low until exploration-focused seismic activities increase which we believe will result from the ongoing depletion of existing reservoirs prompting the need to find new sources of oil and gas. We expect these challenging industry conditions will continue for the remaining months of fiscal year 2018 and into fiscal year 2019. Our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $39.5 million at June 30, 2018, including $8.1 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. In light of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law on December 22, 2017 which requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, we are currently re-evaluating our prior intent to permanently reinvest these undistributed earnings. If we were to repatriate the cash held by our foreign subsidiaries, we would be required to accrue and pay taxes on any amounts repatriated. Our credit agreement allows for borrowings of up to $30.0 million with such amounts available for borrowing determined by a borrowing base. In October 2017, we extended the maturity of the credit agreement from May 2018 to April 2019. At June 30, 2018, we had no outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement and, after consideration of $0.3 million of outstanding letters of credit, our borrowing availability under the credit facility was $21.9 million. At June 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement. We currently do not anticipate the need to borrow under the credit agreement; however, we can make no assurance that we will not do so. In fiscal years 2016 and 2017, we received income tax refunds of $18.3 million and $12.8 million, respectively, from the U.S. Department of Treasury. These refunds were a result of the significant tax losses we experienced in fiscal year 2016 and 2015, which we elected to carryback and recoup taxes previously paid. For U.S. income tax purposes, we are now in a loss carryforward position in regards to our tax losses for fiscal year 2017 and beyond. As a result, our current tax losses will not result in any additional U.S. federal income tax refunds. The tax refunds we received in fiscal years 2016 and 2017 have been significant contributors to our overall liquidity. In the absence of future profitable results of operations, we may need to rely on other sources of liquidity to fund our future operating results, including liquidating short-term investments, executed rental contracts, available borrowings under our credit agreement through its expiration in April 2019, leveraging or sale of real estate assets, sales of rental assets and other liquidity sources which may be available to us. However, currently we believe that our cash and short-term investment balances will be sufficient to finance our operating losses and planned capital expenditures through the next twelve months. 21 Critical Accounting Policies During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, there has been no material change to our critical accounting policies discussed in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 other than the adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting and 2016-16, Accounting for Income Taxes: Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.