Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2019. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents incorporated by reference herein contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, could, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the results and success of our transactions with Quantum and the OptoSeis technology, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, potential tenders for permanent reservoir monitoring systems, future demand for OBX systems, the completion of new orders for our channels of our GCL system, the fulfillment of customer payment obligations, the impact of the coronavirus (or COVID-19) pandemic, the Companys ability to manage changes and the continued health or availability of management personnel, volatility and direction of oil prices, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefor, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and the provision of accounting reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 and this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as other cautionary language in such Annual Report and this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Such examples include, but are not limited to, the failure of the Quantum or OptoSeis technology transactions to yield positive operating results, decreases in commodity price levels, including risks related to the recent collapse in oil prices, which could reduce demand for our products, the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance (despite substantial investment by us) our sensitivity to short term backlog, delayed or cancelled customer orders, product obsolescence resulting from poor industry conditions or new technologies, bad debt write-offs associated with customer accounts, lack of further orders for our OBX rental equipment, failure of our Quantum products to be adopted by the border and security perimeter market and infringement or failure to protect intellectual property. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Business Overview Geospace Technologies Corporation reincorporated as a Texas corporation on April 16, 2015. We originally incorporated as a Delaware corporation on September 27, 1994. Unless otherwise specified, the discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refers to Geospace Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. We principally design and manufacture seismic instruments and equipment. These seismic products are marketed to the oil and gas industry and used to locate, characterize and monitor hydrocarbon producing reservoirs. We also market our seismic products to other industries for vibration monitoring, border and perimeter security and various geotechnical applications. We design and manufacture other products of a non-seismic nature, including water meter products, imaging equipment and offshore cables. We report and categorize our customers and products into three different segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. Demand for our products targeted at customers in our Oil and Gas Markets segment has been, and will likely continue to be, vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the oil and gas industry in general. For more information, please refer to the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 and in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the internet at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Our SEC 24 filings are also available to the public on our website at www.geospace.com. From time to time, we may post investor presentations on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or posted in the future, is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Products and Product Development Oil and Gas Markets Our Oil and Gas Markets business segment has historically accounted for a majority of our revenue. Geoscientists use seismic data primarily in connection with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves to map potential and known hydrocarbon bearing formations and the geologic structures that surround them. This segments products include wireless seismic data acquisition systems, reservoir characterization products and services, and traditional seismic exploration products such as geophones, hydrophones, leader wire, connectors, cables, marine streamer retrieval and steering devices and various other seismic products. We believe that our Oil and Gas Markets products are among the most technologically advanced instruments and equipment available for seismic data acquisition. Traditional Products An energy source and a data recording system are combined to acquire seismic data. We provide many of the components of seismic data recording systems, including geophones, hydrophones, multi-component sensors, leader wire, connectors, telemetry cables and other related products. On land, our customers use geophones, leader wire, cables and connectors to receive and measure seismic reflections resulting from an energy source into data recording units, which store the seismic information for subsequent processing and analysis. In the marine environment, large ocean-going vessels tow long seismic cables known as streamers containing hydrophones that are used to detect pressure changes. Hydrophones transmit electrical impulses back to the vessels data recording unit where the seismic data is stored for subsequent processing and analysis. Our marine products also help steer streamers while being towed and help recover streamers if they become disconnected from the vessel. Our sensor, cable and connector products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. Revenue from these products results primarily from seismic contractors purchasing our products as components of new seismic data acquisition systems or to repair and replace components of seismic data acquisition systems already in use. Wireless Products We have developed multiple versions of a land-based wireless (or nodal) seismic data acquisition system. Rather than utilizing interconnecting cables as required by most traditional land data acquisition systems, each of our wireless stations operate as an independent data collection system, allowing for virtually unlimited channel configurations. As a result, our wireless systems require less maintenance, which we believe allows our customers to operate more effectively and efficiently because of its reduced environmental impact, lower weight and ease of operation. Each wireless station is available in a single-channel or three-channel configuration. Since its introduction in 2008 and through June 30, 2020, we have sold 472,000 wireless channels and we currently have 84,000 wireless channels in our rental fleet. We have also developed a marine-based wireless seismic data acquisition system called the OBX. Similar to our land-based wireless systems, the marine OBX system may be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations and does not require interconnecting cables between each station. Our deepwater versions of the OBX system can be deployed in depths of up to 3,450 meters. At June 30, 2020 we had 34,000 OBX stations in our rental fleet. Cash invested into our wireless product rental fleet was approximately $5.4 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2020. We do not expect cash investments into our wireless product rental fleet to be significant for the remainder of fiscal year 2020. Reservoir Products Seismic surveys repeated over selected time intervals show dynamic changes within a producing oil and gas reservoir, and operators can use these surveys to monitor the effects of oil and gas development and production. This type of reservoir monitoring requires special purpose or custom designed systems in which portability becomes less critical and functional reliability assumes greater importance. This reliability factor helps assure successful operations in inaccessible locations over a considerable period of time. Additionally, reservoirs located in deep water or harsh environments require special instrumentation and new techniques to maximize recovery. Reservoir monitoring also requires high-bandwidth, high-resolution seismic data for engineering project planning and reservoir management. Utilizing these reservoir monitoring tools, producers can enhance the recovery of oil and gas deposits over the life of a reservoir. 25 We have developed permanently installed high-definition reservoir monitoring systems for land and ocean-bottom applications in producing oil and gas fields. Our electrical reservoir monitoring systems are currently installed on numerous offshore reservoirs in the North Sea and elsewhere. Through our recent acquisition of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology, we now offer both electrical and fiber optic reservoir monitoring systems. These high-definition seismic data acquisition systems have a flexible architecture allowing them to be configured as a subsurface system for both land and marine reservoir-monitoring projects. The scalable architecture of these systems enable custom designed configuration for applications ranging from low-channel engineering and environmental-scale surveys requiring a minimum number of recording channels to high-channel surveys required to efficiently conduct permanent reservoir monitoring (PRM). The modular architecture of these products allows virtually unlimited channel expansion for these systems. In addition, we produce seismic borehole acquisition systems that employ a fiber optic augmented wireline capable of very high data transmission rates. These systems are used for several reservoir monitoring applications, including an application pioneered by us allowing operators and service companies to monitor and measure the results of hydraulic fracturing operations. We believe our reservoir characterization products make seismic acquisition a cost-effective and reliable process for reservoir monitoring. Our multi-component seismic product developments also include an omni-directional geophone for use in reservoir monitoring, a compact marine three-component or four-component gimbaled sensor and special-purpose connectors, connector arrays and cases. We have not received any orders for large-scale seabed PRM systems since November 2012. There are currently no open tenders in the industry for a PRM system, although we believe a tender offering is likely to come out in calendar year 2020. Adjacent Markets Our Adjacent Markets businesses leverage upon existing manufacturing facilities and engineering capabilities utilized by our Oil and Gas Markets businesses. Many of the seismic products in our Oil and Gas Markets segment, with little or no modification, have direct application to other industries. Industrial Products Our industrial products include water meter products, contract manufacturing products, offshore cables, and seismic sensors used for vibration monitoring and geotechnical applications such as mine safety applications and earthquake detection. Imaging Products Our imaging products include electronic pre-press products that employ direct thermal imaging and digital inkjet printing technologies targeted at the commercial graphics, industrial graphics, textile and flexographic printing industries. Emerging Markets Our Emerging Markets business segment consists of our recent acquisition of Quantum. Quantums product line includes a proprietary detection system called SADAR , which detects, locates and tracks items of interest in real-time. Using the SADAR technology, Quantum designs and sells products used for border and perimeter security surveillance, cross-border tunneling detection and other products targeted at movement monitoring, intrusion detection and situational awareness. Quantums customers include various agencies of the U.S. government including the Department of Defense, Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security and other agencies. 26 Consolidated Results of Operations We report and evaluate financial information for three segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended June 30, 2020 June 30, 2019 June 30, 2020 June 30, 2019 Oil and Gas Markets Traditional exploration product revenue $ 1,169 $ 2,150 $ 5,553 $ 8,904 Wireless exploration product revenue 16,069 11,852 41,073 32,778 Reservoir product revenue 271 447 826 2,440 Total revenue 17,509 14,449 47,452 44,122 Operating income (loss) 1,496 (280 ) (1,088 ) 451 Adjacent Markets Industrial product revenue 3,403 5,363 11,185 13,046 Imaging product revenue 1,703 2,871 7,121 9,082 Total revenue 5,106 8,234 18,306 22,128 Operating income 605 1,717 2,670 4,350 Emerging Markets Revenue 88 11 557 145 Operating loss (1,170 ) (1,388 ) (5,035 ) (3,760 ) Corporate Revenue 179 476 Operating loss (3,495 ) (3,384 ) (10,423 ) (9,417 ) Consolidated Totals Revenue 22,703 22,873 66,315 66,871 Operating loss (2,564 ) (3,335 ) (13,876 ) (8,376 ) Overview In 2014, our Oil and Gas Markets segment experienced a softening in the demand for its traditional exploration products, particularly in North America, as capital budgets for oil and gas producers were trending away from exploration-focused activities toward production and exploitation activities. During this period oil production in North Americas unconventional shale reservoirs increased, as did oil production from other non-OPEC countries, resulting in an oversupply of crude oil in the world market and a resulting drop in energy prices. Early in 2020, decreased demand again caused by the oversupply of crude oil due to failed OPEC negotiations and the impact of the COVID19 pandemic led to a dramatic drop in crude oil prices which have subsequently recovered to some extent. With this recent decline in oil prices, oil and gas exploration and production companies are expected to experience a significant reduction in cash flows, which will likely result in reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic data acquisition activities. Our Oil and Gas Markets segment has historically experienced strong demand for the rental of our marine wireless nodal products; however, this demand could significantly diminish during fiscal year 2020 or beyond as a result of significant uncertainty in the outlook for oil and gas exploration. Demand for new land-based seismic equipment in recent fiscal years has remained restrained due to capital limitations affecting many of our customers, along with their excess levels of underutilized equipment. As a result, revenue from the sale and rental of our land-based traditional and wireless products has remained low due to reduced investment in exploration-focused seismic activities. We expect these challenging industry conditions will result in revenue from our traditional and land-based wireless products to remain below historical norms. In light of current market conditions, the inventory balances in our Oil and Gas Markets business segment at June 30, 2020 continued to exceed levels we consider appropriate for the current level of product demand. While we are aggressively working to reduce these legacy inventory balances, we are also adding new inventories for new wireless product developments and for other product demand in our Adjacent Markets segment. During periods of excessive inventory levels, our policy has been, and will continue to be, to record obsolescence expense as we experience reduced product demand and as our inventories continue to age. If difficult market conditions continue for the products in our Oil and Gas Markets segment, we expect to record additional inventory obsolescence expense in fiscal year 2020 and beyond until product demand and/or resulting inventory turnover return to acceptable levels. Coronavirus (COVID-19) In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global pandemic and recommended containment and mitigation measures worldwide. The spread of COVID-19 has resulted in most governments issuing restrictive orders, including shelter in place orders around the globe to assist in mitigating the spread of the virus. 27 While we continue to support our customers, there remains uncertainties regarding the duration and, to what extent the COVID-19 pandemic will ultimately have on the demand for our products and services or with our supply chain. We continue to closely monitor the situation as information becomes readily available. As of the date of this filing, our operations have, for the most part, remained open globally and the impact of the effects of COVID-19 to our personnel and operations has been limited. We have experienced lower than expected sales in our Adjacent Markets segment which we believe are primarily the result of the pandemic. We have also experienced a reduction in demand for certain products, cancellation of rental contracts and difficulty with field employees and salespeople traveling domestically and abroad to conduct our business. Subsequent to the end of our third fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2020, we have taken cost reducing steps (reduction of force) to adjust operating and manufacturing expenses in response to the reduction in sales as an effect of the COVID-19 pandemic . The current low oil and gas price environment may be intensified and prolonged by the COVID-19 pandemic and is increasing the risk and financial stress placed on our customers. We cannot reasonably estimate the length or severity of this pandemic, or the extent to which COVID-19 will affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in fiscal year 2020 and beyond. Three and nine months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 Consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $22.7 million, a decrease of $0.2 million, or 0.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in revenue was due to (i) a decrease in demand for our industrial and imaging products from Adjacent Markets segment which we believe was caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and (ii) a decrease in demand for our traditional exploration products from our Oil and Gas Markets segment due to lower demand for crude oil. The decrease in revenue was offset by an increase in rental revenue in our Oil and Gas Markets segment from our OBX marine nodal products. Consolidated revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was $66.3 million, a decrease of $0.6 million, or 0.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to (i) a decrease in the recognition of rental revenue from an international seismic marine customer in our Oil and Gas Markets segment, (ii) a decrease in demand for both our industrial and imaging products in our Adjacent Markets segment primarily caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and (iii) decrease in demand for our traditional exploration products in our Oil and Gas Markets segment. This decrease was offset by improved rental revenue in our Oil and Gas Markets segment from our OBX marine nodal products. Consolidated gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $8.1 million, an increase of $0.5 million, or 6.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was primarily due to an increase in marine wireless product rental revenue. The increase in gross profit was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from both our industrial and imaging products. Consolidated gross profit for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was $18.5 million, a decrease of $2.6 million, or 12.2% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to (i) a decrease in revenue from our industrial and imaging products, (ii) a decrease in revenue from our traditional exploration products and (iii) a decrease in the recognition of OBX marine nodal rental revenue from an international seismic marine customer. The decrease in gross profit was partially offset by an increase in wireless product rental revenue caused by the high utilization of our OBX rental fleet. Consolidated operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2020 were $10.6 million, a decrease of $0.3 million, or 2.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior year fiscal. The decrease was due to (i) a $0.6 million decrease in personnel costs and other general expenses related to our business operations and (ii) a $0.4 million decrease in bad debt expense. The decrease was partially offset by a $0.7 million net non-cash increase in the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out consideration related to our Quantum and OptoSeis acquisitions. Consolidated operating expenses for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 were $32.3 million, an increase of $2.9 million, or 10.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior year fiscal. The increase in operating costs for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was due to (i) a $1.6 million net non-cash increase in the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out consideration related to our Quantum and OptoSeis acquisitions, (ii) $0.4 million of incremental research and development costs associated with our acquisition of the OptoSeis business in November 2018 and (iii) a $1.1 million increase in other general expense increases related to our business operations. These increases in operating expenses were partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in bad debt expense. Consolidated other income for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $0.9 million compared to $0.4 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was primarily caused by an increase in foreign exchange gains and an increase in interest income. Consolidated other income for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was $1.1 million compared to $0.8 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was primarily caused by an increase in foreign exchange gains. Consolidated income tax expense for the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 was $0.6 million and $0.7 million, respectively. This decrease in income tax expense was primarily the result of a decrease in rental revenue earned in foreign jurisdictions requiring tax withholding. Consolidated income tax expense for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 was $2.6 million and $1.3 million, respectively. This increase in income tax expense was primarily the result of an increase in rental revenue 28 earned in foreign jurisdictions requiring tax withholding . We are currently unable to record any tax benefits from the tax losses we incur in the U.S ., Canada and Russian Federation due to the uncertainty surrounding our ability to utilize such losses in the future to offset taxable income. Segment Results of Operations Oil and Gas Markets Revenue Revenue from our Oil and Gas Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2020 increased $3.1 million, or 21.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our Oil and Gas Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 increased $3.3 million, or 7.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of these increases included the following: Traditional Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2020, revenue from our traditional products decreased $1.0 million, or 45.7% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2020, revenue from our traditional products decreased $3.4 million, or 37.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for both periods reflects lower demand for our sensor products and a decrease in customer product repair and support service revenue. Wireless Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2020, revenue from our wireless exploration products increased $4.2 million, or 35.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2020, revenue from our wireless exploration products increased $8.3 million, or 25.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase for both periods resulted from higher rental demand for our OBX systems, partially offset by a decrease in the recognition of revenue from an international seismic marine customer. Reservoir Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2020, revenue from our reservoir products decreased $0.2 million, or 39.4%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2020, revenue from our reservoir products decreased $1.6 million, or 66.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for both periods was primarily due to a decrease in sales of our borehole products and lower service revenue. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, we partially financed a $12.5 million product sale by entering into a $10.0 million promissory note with a customer. The promissory note is for a three-year term with monthly principal and interest payments of $0.3 million. Due to the financial condition of the customer, we have concerns over the probable collectability of the promissory note. As a result, we did not recognize any revenue or cost of revenue on the product sale. We have received payments from the customer totaling $3.8 million (exclusive of interest) as of June 30, 2020 related to the sale, which are reflected on our accompanying consolidated balance sheet as non-current deferred revenue. Management does not intend to recognize the revenue and cost of revenue from the sale until it becomes probable that the customer will satisfy its financial obligation under the promissory note. 29 Operating Income (l oss ) Operating income (loss) associated with our Oil and Gas Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $1.5 million, compared to a loss of $(0.3) million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in our operating income for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was primarily due to a net increase in wireless rental revenue and related gross profits from the rental of our OBX systems. The increase in our operating income was partially offset by a $0.8 million non-cash charge related to the increase in the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out consideration related to our OptoSeis acquisition. Operating income (loss) associated with our Oil and Gas Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was a loss of $(1.1) million, compared to income of $0.5 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decline in our operating income for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was primarily the result of a decrease in gross profit as a result of costs associated with upgrading OBX marine nodal equipment and rental equipment depreciation expense. These expense were partially offset by an increase in OBX rental revenue. Adjacent Markets Revenue Revenue from our Adjacent Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2020 decreased $3.1 million, or 38.0%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our Adjacent Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 decreased $3.8 million, or 17.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of these decreases included the following: Industrial Product Revenue and Services For the three months ended June 30, 2020, revenue from our industrial products decreased $2.0 million, or 36.5% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2020, revenue from our industrial products decreased $1.9 million, or 14.3% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in revenue for both periods was due to lower demand for our industrial sensor products and contract manufacturing services primarily as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. For the three months ended June 30, 2020, the decrease in revenue was also attributable to a decline in demand for our water meter products. We cannot reasonably estimate the impact the COVID-19 will have on the future demand for our industrial products and services. Imaging Product Revenue For the three months ended June 30, 2020, revenue from our imaging products decreased $1.2 million, or 40.7%, from the corresponding period of the fiscal year. For the nine months ended June 30, 2020, revenue from our imaging products decreased $2.0 million, or 21.6%, from the corresponding period of the fiscal year. The decrease for both periods was primarily due to a decline in sales of our film products as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The decrease for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was also attributable to unforeseen delays in the production of certain imaging equipment. We cannot reasonably estimate the impact COVID-19 will have on the future demand for our imaging products. Operating Income The operating income from our Adjacent Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $0.6 million, a decrease of $1.1 million, or 64.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The operating income from our Adjacent Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was $2.7 million, a decrease of $1.7 million or 38.6%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating income for both periods was primarily due to the decrease in industrial and imaging product revenue. Emerging Markets Revenue On July 27, 2018, we entered the border and perimeter security market through our acquisition of Quantum. In connection with our Quantum acquisition, we established the Emerging Markets business segment, which currently includes only Quantum. Revenue from our Emerging Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $0.1 million, compared to $11,000 from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was due to site preparation and engineering related to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection U.S. Border Patrol contract. Revenue from our Emerging Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was $0.6 million, compared to $0.1 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was primarily attributable to the sale of border and perimeter security products to a commercial customer. In April 2020, Quantum was awarded a $10 million contract with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection U.S. Border Patrol to provide a technology solution to the 30 Department of Homeland Security. The Company does not expect any significant revenue from this contract to be recognized until the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Operating Loss Our operating loss from our Emerging Markets products for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $1.2 million, a decrease of $0.2 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating loss for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was primarily due to a decrease in project development costs. Our operating loss from our Emerging Markets products for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was $5.0 million, an increase of $1.3 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating loss for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was primarily due to a $1.3 million non-cash charge for the estimated increase in the fair value of contingent earn-out consideration related to our Quantum acquisition. During the nine months ended June 30, 2020, Quantum also experienced an increase in product development costs which were offset by an increase in gross profits attributable to its higher revenue. Quantums operating expenses for each of the three and nine months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 include intangible asset amortization expenses of $0.3 million and $0.9 million, respectively. Since its acquisition in July 2018, Quantum has primarily focused on product development activities, and the marketing of its technologies to government agencies and other end users. We expect Quantum to incur operating losses until revenue from its recently awarded contract is recognized, most of which is not expected to occur until the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2020, we had approximately $26.7 million in cash and cash equivalents. For the nine months ended June 30, 2020, we generated $12.4 million of cash from operating activities. Our net loss of $15.3 million was offset by net non-cash charges of $31.1 million resulting from deferred income taxes, depreciation, amortization, inventory obsolescence, stock-based compensation, bad debt expense, change in estimate of collectability of rental revenue and changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration. Other sources of cash included (i) a $0.9 million decrease in inventories caused by a drawdown of our excess levels of finished goods, (ii) a $2.8 million increase in deferred revenue and other liabilities primarily due to the deferral of revenue on a significant product sale occurring in our second fiscal quarter and partially offset by a decrease in customer deposits and (iii) an $2.1 million decrease in trade and other receivables resulting from the timing of collections from customers. Offsetting these sources of cash were (i) a $1.6 million decrease in accounts payable resulting from the timing of payments to our suppliers, (ii) an $8.2 million increase in deferred cost of revenue and other assets primarily due to the deferral of cost on a product sale and an increase in the prepayment of certain expenses and (iii) the removal of a $0.7 million gross profit from the sale of used rental equipment since such gross profit is reflected in the proceeds from the sale of used rental equipment under investing activities. For the nine months ended June 30, 2020, we used cash of $4.5 million from investing activities. Uses of cash included (i) a $5.4 million investment in our rental equipment primarily to expand our OBX rental fleet and (ii) $2.6 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment. These uses of cash were partially offset by (i) $3.3 million of proceeds from the sale of rental equipment and (ii) $0.2 million of proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment. We do not expect significant cash investments to be made into our OBX rental fleet or our property, plant and equipment for the remainder of fiscal year 2020. Our capital expenditures are expected to be funded from our cash on hand, internal cash flows, cash flows from our rental contracts or, if necessary, from borrowings under our credit agreement. For the nine months ended June 30, 2020, we had no cash flows from financing activities. Since 2014, the oil and gas industry has experienced a sustained downturn due to low oil and gas prices. Recently, the unprecedented sharp decline in crude oil prices since February 2020 has further impacted the overall condition of the oil and gas industry, stifling budgets targeted at the oil and gas exploration industry, including the seismic industry. Prior to the recent downturn we saw some signs of increased seismic activity in certain areas around the world; however, we expect the need for new seismic equipment to remain restrained due to current industry conditions, capital limitations affecting many of our customers and excessive on-hand quantities of under-utilized seismic equipment. Further, we expect product sales of our Oil and Gas Markets productsspecifically our legacy land-based traditional and wireless productsto remain low until the oil and gas industry begins to show signs of recovery and exploration-focused seismic activities increase. However, oil and gas pricing and the resultant economic conditions may not recover meaningfully in the near term, and we expect these challenging industry conditions facing our land-based traditional and legacy wireless products will continue in fiscal year 2020. During fiscal year 2020, we recorded an impairment charge of $8.0 million to fully reserve a receivable owed to us from an international seismic marine customer that continues to rent from us a significant amount of our marine nodal equipment. We have experienced cash collection difficulties with this customer throughout fiscal year 2019 and through the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 due to the customers inability to generate enough cash flows to pay its obligations in a timely manner. As a result of the customers failure to adhere to an agreed-upon payment plan, in late November 2019, we ceased recognizing revenue from this customer and expect to continue to do so until the customer demonstrates its ability to routinely service its debts owed to us in the ordinary course of business. At June 30, 2020, the total debt contractually owed by the customer to us was $14.0 million although our balance sheet at June 30, 2020 reflected a balance of zero due to $5.7 million of unrecognized revenue and $8.0 million of write- 31 offs. During the nine months ended June 30, 2020, we received cash payments of $6.2 million from this customer, of which $3.6 million was recognized as revenue during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. We have received cash payments in excess of $24 million from this customer since the beginning of fiscal year 2018. We had significant concerns about the customers ability to ultimately settle the debts owed to us because of (i) its distressed financial condition, (ii) the customers inability to generate sufficient cash flows to fund its past operations, (iii) the customers failure to make payments in accordance with its promises, (iv) the belief that the distressed state of the oil and gas exploration industry caused by the recent oversupply of crude oil on the world market will further compound the difficulties facing the customer and (v) the failure by the customer to present a plausible plan to overcome the difficulties it currently faces. During fiscal year 2020, we recorded a reversal of an operating lease receivable and rental revenue of $8.0 million to reduce the carrying value of the receivable owed by the customer to zero. On May 26, 2020 we entered into an agreement with the customer to transition $13 million of unpaid invoices and late fees into a 24-month term debt security. The debt is secured by a third in line lien on the assets owned by the customer and has an 8% interest rate with bi-annual interest and principal payments. Principal payments can be made either in cash or in-kind payments in the form of additional debt security. In-kind principal payments require a 10% premium of interest. Subsequent to June 30, 2020, the customer completed their reorganization plan and issued the debt security on July 15, 2020 with a July 14, 2022 maturity date. The customer is required to list the debt instrument on Oslo Stock Exchange or Nordic ABM within 6 months. However, the actual marketability of the debt security is unknown at this time. Our available cash and cash equivalents totaled $26.7 million at June 30, 2020, which included $6.0 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. The 2017 Tax Act creates new taxes on certain foreign earnings and also requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on undistributed earnings of their foreign subsidiaries which were previously tax deferred. We have determined that we are not required to pay any transition tax on the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries since we had no accumulated foreign earnings on a consolidated basis. Our credit agreement allows for borrowings of up to $30.0 million with such amounts available for borrowing determined by a borrowing base. In November 2019, we amended the credit agreement to (i) extend the maturity date from April 2020 to April 2022, (ii) increase the unencumbered liquid assets covenant threshold from $5 million to $10 million commencing with the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2020 and for each fiscal quarter thereafter, (iii) increase the tangible net worth requirement from $140 million to $145 million commencing with the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2020 and for each fiscal quarter thereafter and (iv) remove the requirement that we obtain the consent of Frost Bank prior to paying dividends or repurchasing stock so long as we are in compliance with the covenants of the credit agreement. At June 30, 2020, we had no outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement and our borrowing availability under the credit facility was $17.9 million. At June 30, 2020, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement. We currently do not anticipate the need to borrow under the credit agreement; however, we can make no assurance that we will not do so. In the absence of future profitable results of operations, we may need to rely on other sources of liquidity to fund our future operations, including executed rental contracts, available borrowings under our credit agreement through its expiration in April 2022, leveraging or sale of real estate assets, sales of rental assets and other liquidity sources which may be available to us. However, currently we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to finance any future operating losses and planned capital expenditures through the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any obligations which meet the definition of an off-balance sheet arrangement and which have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial statements or the items contained therein that are material to investors. 32 Contractual Obligations Contingent Consideration We recorded an initial contingent earn-out liability of $7.7 million in connection with our July 2018 acquisition of Quantum. Subsequent to the acquisition, we reduced the estimated contingent earn-out liability to $6.2 million as of June 30, 2020. Contingent payments, if any, may be paid in the form of cash or Company stock and will be derived from eligible revenue generated during the four-year post-acquisition earn-out period ending in July 2022. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.5 million. We recorded an initial contingent earn-out liability of $4.3 million in connection with our November 2018 acquisition of all the intellectual property and related assets of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology. Subsequent to the acquisition, we increased the estimated contingent earn-out liability to $5.4 million as of June 30, 2020. Contingent cash payments, if any, will be derived from eligible revenue generated during a five-and-a-half year post acquisition earn-out period ending in May 2024. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.2 million. We review and assess the fair value of our contingent earn-out liabilities on a quarterly basis. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information on our contractual contingencies. Critical Accounting Policies During the nine months ended June 30, 2020, there has been no material change to our critical accounting policies discussed in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.