Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis o f Finan cial Condition and Results of Operations The following is managements discussion and analysis of the major elements of our consolidated financial statements. You should read this discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes, and other detailed information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2019. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents incorporated by reference herein contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, intend, expect, plan, budget, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue, evaluating or similar words. Statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial position or state other forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that we make regarding our expected operating results, the results and success of our transactions with Quantum and the OptoSeis technology, the adoption and sale of our products in various geographic regions, potential tenders for permanent reservoir monitoring systems, future demand for OBX systems, the completion of new orders for our channels of our GCL system, the fulfillment of customer payment plans, or value of the security associated with such plans, anticipated levels of capital expenditures and the sources of funding therefor, and our strategy for growth, product development, market position, financial results and the provision of accounting reserves. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. However, there will likely be events in the future that we are not able to predict or control. The factors listed under the caption Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, as well as other cautionary language in such Annual Report and this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Such examples include, but are not limited to, the failure of the Quantum or OptoSeis technology transactions to yield positive operating results, decreases in commodity price levels, which could reduce demand for our products, the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance (despite substantial investment by us) our sensitivity to short term backlog, delayed or cancelled customer orders, product obsolescence resulting from poor industry conditions or new technologies, bad debt write-offs associated with customer accounts, lack of further orders for our OBX rental equipment, failure of our Quantum products to be adopted by the border and security perimeter market and infringement or failure to protect intellectual property. The occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Business Overview Geospace Technologies Corporation reincorporated as a Texas corporation on April 16, 2015. We originally incorporated as a Delaware corporation on September 27, 1994. Unless otherwise specified, the discussion in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refers to Geospace Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. We principally design and manufacture seismic instruments and equipment. These seismic products are marketed to the oil and gas industry and used to locate, characterize and monitor hydrocarbon producing reservoirs. We also market our seismic products to other industries for vibration monitoring, border and perimeter security and various geotechnical applications. We design and manufacture other products of a non-seismic nature, including water meter products, imaging equipment and offshore cables. We report and categorize our customers and products into three different segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. Demand for our seismic products targeted at customers in our Oil and Gas Markets segment has been, and will likely continue to be, vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the oil and gas industry in general. For more information, please refer to the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the internet at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on our website at www.geospace.com. From time to time, we may post investor presentations on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or 18 posted in the future, is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Products and Product Development Oil and Gas Markets Our Oil and Gas Markets business segment has historically accounted for the majority of our revenue. Geoscientists use seismic data primarily in connection with the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves to map potential and known hydrocarbon bearing formations and the geologic structures that surround them. This segments products include wireless seismic data acquisition systems, reservoir characterization products and services, and traditional seismic exploration products such as geophones, hydrophones, leader wire, connectors, cables, marine streamer retrieval and steering devices and various other seismic products. We believe that our Oil and Gas Markets products are among the most technologically advanced instruments and equipment available for seismic data acquisition. Traditional Products An energy source and a data recording system are combined to acquire seismic data. We provide many of the components of seismic data recording systems, including geophones, hydrophones, multi-component sensors, leader wire, geophone strings, connectors, seismic telemetry cables and other seismic related products. On land, our customers use geophones, leader wire, cables and connectors to receive and measure seismic reflections resulting from an energy source into data recording units, which store the seismic information for subsequent processing and analysis. In the marine environment, large ocean-going vessels tow long seismic cables known as streamers containing hydrophones that are used to detect pressure changes. Hydrophones transmit electrical impulses back to the vessels data recording unit where the seismic data is stored for subsequent processing and analysis. Our marine seismic products also help steer streamers while being towed and help recover streamers if they become disconnected from the vessel. Our seismic sensor, cable and connector products are compatible with most major competitive seismic data acquisition systems currently in use. Revenue from these products results primarily from seismic contractors purchasing our products as components of new seismic data acquisition systems or to repair and replace components of seismic data acquisition systems already in use. Wireless Products We have developed multiple versions of a land-based wireless (or nodal) seismic data acquisition system. Rather than utilizing interconnecting cables as required by most traditional land data acquisition systems, each of our wireless stations operate as an independent data collection system, allowing for virtually unlimited channel configurations. As a result, our wireless systems require less maintenance, which we believe allows our customers to operate more effectively and efficiently because of its reduced environmental impact, lower weight and ease of operation. Each wireless station is available in a single-channel or three-channel configuration. Since its introduction in 2008 and through December 31, 2019, we have sold 442,000 wireless channels and we currently have 84,000 wireless channels in our rental fleet. We have also developed a marine-based wireless seismic data acquisition system called the OBX. Similar to our land-based wireless systems, the marine OBX system may be deployed in virtually unlimited channel configurations and does not require interconnecting cables between each station. Our deepwater versions of the OBX system can be deployed in depths of up to 3,450 meters. At December 31, 2019, we had 33,000 OBX stations in our rental fleet, and additional OBX stations under construction in order to meet expected rental demand. We expect fiscal year 2020 cash investments into our wireless product rental fleet to be $8 million, or more, based on the current level of demand. Reservoir Products Seismic surveys repeated over selected time intervals show dynamic changes within a producing oil and gas reservoir, and operators can use these surveys to monitor the effects of oil and gas development and production. This type of reservoir monitoring requires special purpose or custom designed systems in which portability becomes less critical and functional reliability assumes greater importance. This reliability factor helps assure successful operations in inaccessible locations over a considerable period of time. Additionally, reservoirs located in deep water or harsh environments require special instrumentation and new techniques to maximize recovery. Reservoir monitoring also requires high-bandwidth, high-resolution seismic data for engineering project planning and reservoir management. Utilizing these reservoir monitoring tools, producers can enhance the recovery of oil and gas deposits over the life of a reservoir. 19 We have developed permanently installed high-definition reservoir monitoring systems for land and ocean-bottom applications in producing oil and gas fields. Our electrical reservoir monitoring systems are currently installed on numerous offshore reservoirs in the North Sea and elsewhere. Through our recent acquisition of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology, we now offer both electric al and fiber optic reservoir monitoring systems. These high-definition seismic data acquisition systems have a flexible architecture allowing them to be configured as a subsurface system for both land and marine reservoir-monitoring projects. The scalabl e architecture of these systems enable custom designed configuration for applications ranging from low-channel engineering and environmental-scale surveys requiring a minimum number of recording channels to high-channel surveys required to efficiently cond uct permanent reservoir monitoring (PRM). The modular architecture of these products allows virtually unlimited channel expansion for these systems. In addition, we produce seismic borehole acquisition systems that employ a fiber optic augmented wireline capable of very high data transmission rates. These systems are used for several reservoir monitoring applications, including an application pioneered by us allowing operators and service companies to monitor and measure the results of hydraulic fracturing operations. We believe our reservoir characterization products make seismic acquisition a cost-effective and reliable process for reservoir monitoring. Our multi-component seismic product developments also include an omni-directional geophone for use in reservoir monitoring, a compact marine three-component or four-component gimbaled sensor and special-purpose connectors, connector arrays and cases. We have not received any orders for large-scale seabed PRM systems since November 2012. There are currently no open tenders in the industry for a PRM system, although we believe a tender offering is likely to come out in fiscal year 2020. Adjacent Markets Our Adjacent Markets businesses leverage upon existing manufacturing facilities and engineering capabilities utilized by our Oil and Gas Markets businesses. Many of the seismic products in our Oil and Gas Markets segment, with little or no modification, have direct application to other industries. Industrial Products Our industrial products include water meter products, contract manufacturing products, offshore cables, and seismic sensors used for vibration monitoring and geotechnical applications such as mine safety applications and earthquake detection. Imaging Products Our imaging products include electronic pre-press products that employ direct thermal imaging and digital inkjet printing technologies targeted at the commercial graphics, industrial graphics, textile and flexographic printing industries. Emerging Markets Our Emerging Markets business segment consists of our recent acquisition of Quantum. Quantums product line includes a proprietary detection system called SADAR , which detects, locates and tracks items of interest in real-time. Using the SADAR technology, Quantum designs and sells products used for border and perimeter security surveillance, cross-border tunneling detection and other products targeted at movement monitoring, intrusion detection and situational awareness. Quantums customers include various agencies of the U.S. government including the Department of Defense, Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security and other agencies. 20 Consolidated Results of Operations We report and evaluate financial information for three segments: Oil and Gas Markets, Adjacent Markets and Emerging Markets. Summary financial data by business segment follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Oil and Gas Markets Traditional exploration product revenue $ 2,354 $ 2,785 Wireless exploration product revenue 16,930 7,282 Reservoir product revenue 218 937 Total revenue 19,502 11,004 Operating income (loss) 4,099 (2,601 ) Adjacent Markets Industrial product revenue 3,596 3,561 Imaging product revenue 2,503 3,074 Total revenue 6,099 6,635 Operating income 851 982 Emerging Markets Revenue 97 88 Operating loss (1,365 ) (1,192 ) Corporate Revenue 148 Operating loss (3,415 ) (3,252 ) Consolidated Totals Revenue 25,698 17,875 Operating income (loss) 170 (6,063 ) Overview Early in calendar year 2014, our Oil and Gas Markets segment experienced a softening in the demand for its traditional exploration products, particularly in North America, as capital budgets for oil and gas producers were trending away from exploration-focused activities toward production and exploitation activities. During this period oil production in North Americas unconventional shale reservoirs increased, as did oil production from other non-OPEC countries, resulting in an oversupply of crude oil in the world market. Market prices for a barrel of West Texas Intermediate crude oil declined from over $100 in July 2014 to approximately $26 in February 2016, and have recovered to approximately $61 at December 31, 2019. With this decline in oil prices, oil and gas exploration and production companies experienced a significant reduction in cash flows, which resulted in sharp reductions in their capital spending budgets for oil and gas exploration-focused activities, including seismic data acquisition activities. Our Oil and Gas Markets segment is now seeing significant demand for the rental of our marine wireless nodal products; however, the demand for new land-based seismic equipment in recent fiscal years has remained restrained due to capital limitations affecting many of our customers, along with their excess levels of underutilized equipment. As a result, revenue from the sale and rental of our land-based traditional and wireless products has remained low due to reduced investment in exploration-focused seismic activities. We expect these challenging industry conditions will improve to some extent in fiscal year 2020, however, we expect revenue from our traditional and land-based wireless products to remain below historical norms. In light of current market conditions, the inventory balances in our Oil and Gas Markets business segment at December 31, 2019 continued to exceed levels we consider appropriate for the current level of product demand. While we are aggressively working to reduce these legacy inventory balances, we are also adding new inventories for new wireless product developments and for other product demand in our Adjacent Markets segment. During periods of excessive inventory levels, our policy has been, and will continue to be, to record obsolescence expense as we experience reduced product demand and as our inventories continue to age. If difficult market conditions continue for the products in our Oil and Gas Markets segment, we expect to record additional inventory obsolescence expense in fiscal year 2020 and beyond until product demand and/or resulting inventory turnover return to acceptable levels. Three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 Consolidated revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was $25.7 million, an increase of $7.8 million, or 44%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue primarily resulted from increased rental revenue in our Oil and Gas Markets segment from our OBX marine nodal products. 21 Consolidated gross profit for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was $10.5 million, compared to $3.1 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in g ross profit primarily resulted from a significant increase in wireless product rental revenue caused by the high utilization of our expanding OBX rental fleet Consolidated operating expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2019 were $10.3 million, an increase of $1.2 million, or 12.8%, from the corresponding period of the prior year fiscal. Approximately $0.5 million of the increase in operating expenses was due to incremental research and development costs associated with our recent acquisition of the OptoSeis business in November 2018. The balance of the increase in operating expenses was primarily due to additional research and development expenditures for our other products. Consolidated other income (loss) for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was $(39,000) compared to $0.2 million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily caused by foreign exchange losses and a decline in interest income. Consolidated income tax expense for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was $1.4 million compared to $7,000 for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in income tax expense for the three months ended December 31, 2019 substantially reflects foreign withholding tax assessed on our rental income earned in Nigeria and Brunei which did not exist in the corresponding quarter of the prior year. During the three months ended December 31, 2019, a substantial portion of our rental activities were in international locations. We are currently unable to record any tax benefits from the tax losses we incur in the U.S. and Canada due to the uncertainty surrounding our ability to utilize such losses in the future to offset taxable income. Segment Results of Operations Oil and Gas Markets Revenue Revenue from our Oil and Gas Markets products for the three months ended December 31, 2019 increased $8.5 million, or 77.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of this increase include the following: Traditional Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2019, revenue from our traditional products decreased $0.4 million, or 15.5% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease primarily reflects lower demand for our sensor products. The decrease was partially offset by higher demand for our marine products. Wireless Exploration Product Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2019, revenue from our wireless exploration products increased $9.6 million, or 132.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase resulted from higher rental demand for our OBX systems. 22 Reservoir Product Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2019, revenue from our reservoir products decreased $0.7 million, or 76.7%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in sales of our borehole products. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income associated with our Oil and Gas Markets products for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was $4.1 million, compared to an operating loss of $(2.6) million from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The improvement in our operating income primarily resulted from an increase in wireless rental revenue and gross profits from our OBX systems, partially offset by a decrease in rental revenue from an international seismic marine customer. Adjacent Markets Revenue Revenue from our Adjacent Markets products for the three months ended December 31, 2019 decreased $0.5 million, or 8.1%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The components of this decrease included the following: Industrial Product Revenue and Services For the three months ended December 31, 2019, revenue from our industrial products increased $35,000, or 1.0% from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue was primarily due to higher demand for our water meter products. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in demand for our industrial sensor products. Imaging Product Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2019, revenue from our imaging products decreased $0.6 million, or 18.6%, from the corresponding period of the fiscal year. This decrease was caused by unforeseen delays in the production of certain imaging equipment and a decline in sales of our films products. While this decline is larger than we anticipated, we do not expect a trend of lower revenue in the future. Operating Income The operating income from our Adjacent Markets products for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was $0.9 million, a decrease of $0.1 million or 13.3%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating income was primarily due to the decrease in imaging product revenue. Emerging Markets Revenue On July 27, 2018, we entered the border and perimeter security market through our acquisition of Quantum. In connection with the Quantum acquisition, we established the Emerging Markets business segment, which currently includes only Quantum. Revenue from our Emerging Markets products for the three months ended December 31, 2019 increased $9,000, or 10.2%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. We do not consider this small increase to be indicative of any particular trend in product demand. Quantum did not receive any significant border and perimeter security contracts during fiscal year 2019 or for the three months ended December 31, 2019. Operating Loss Our operating loss from our Emerging Markets products for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was $1.4 million, an increase of $0.2 million or 14.5%, from the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to an increase in product development costs and other general business expenses. Since its acquisition in July 2018, Quantum has primarily focused on product development activities, and the marketing of its technologies to government agencies and other end users. Quantums operating expenses for each of the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 include intangible asset amortization expenses of $0.3 million. We expect Quantum to incur operating losses into the future until it obtains revenue-generating contracts that are sufficiently able to support its current cost structure. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2019, we had approximately $10.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. For the three months ended December 31, 2019, we used $3.4 million of cash from operating activities. Our net loss of $1.3 million included net non-cash charges of $7.8 million resulting from deferred income taxes, depreciation, amortization, inventory 23 obsolescence, stock-based compensation and bad debt expense. After adjusting our net loss for the non-cash charges, oth er sources of cash included (i) a $3.1 million increase in accounts payable associated with the increase of our inventories and (ii) a $0.9 million increase in deferred revenue and customer deposits due to a deposit for a large product order. Offsetting t hese sources of cash were (i) an $8.3 million increase in trade accounts and other receivables resulting from the increase in revenue and delays in collecting funds owed from a rental customer, (ii) a $3.7 million increase in inventories associated with th e production of a large product order and (iii) $0.9 million for the prepayment of certain expenses. For the three months ended December 31, 2019, we used cash of $5.6 million from investing activities. Uses of cash included (i) $5.2 million investment in our rental equipment primarily to expand our OBX rental fleet and (ii) $1.7 million for additions to our property, plant and equipment. These uses of cash were partially offset by $1.1 million of proceeds from the sale of rental equipment. Depending on demand for our marine OBX rental equipment, we expect fiscal year 2020 cash investments into our rental fleet to be $8 million, or more. We estimate total fiscal year 2020 cash investments in property, plant and equipment could be up to $5 million. Our capital expenditures are expected to be funded from our cash on hand, internal cash flows, cash flows from our rental contracts or, if necessary, from borrowings under our credit agreement. For the three months ended December 31, 2019, we had no cash flows from financing activities. The significant crude oil price volatility that began in 2014 continues today, stifling budgets targeted at the oil and gas exploration industry, including the seismic industry. OPEC and other crude oil producing/exporting nations appear united in their efforts to maintain equilibrium between current worldwide crude oil supply and demand. If worldwide crude oil supplies and associated prices stabilize, these factors and developing trends bode well for the oil and gas industry and we expect to participate in any resurgence in demand for new seismic equipment that may be forthcoming. While we are seeing some signs of increased seismic activity in certain areas around the world, the need for new seismic equipment remains restrained due to capital limitations affecting many of our customers along with excessive on-hand quantities of under-utilized seismic equipment. We expect product sales of our Oil and Gas Markets products, and in particular our legacy land-based traditional and wireless products, to remain low until exploration-focused seismic activities increase, which we believe will eventually result from the ongoing depletion of existing reservoirs prompting the need to find new sources of oil and gas. We expect these challenging industry conditions facing our land-based traditional and legacy wireless products will continue in fiscal year 2020. Our trade accounts receivable at December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2019 includes $8.7 million and $8.5 million, respectively, due from an international seismic marine customer that, as of December 31, 2019 rented a significant amount of our marine nodal equipment. We have experienced cash collection difficulties with this customer throughout fiscal year 2019 and into the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 due to the customers inability to generate sufficient cash flows to pay its obligations in a timely manner. In November 2019, we accepted from the customer a plan to bring its unpaid invoices to a satisfactory status. The most recent payment made by the customer prior to the plan was $1.4 million in November 2019. The customer did not make any of the scheduled payments as detailed in that plan. In late November 2019, we ceased recognizing revenue from this customer and expect to continue to do so until the customer demonstrates its ability to routinely service its debts owed to us in the ordinary course of business. At December 31, 2019, the total debt contractually owed by the customer to us is $10.2 million; however, the trade accounts receivable of $8.7 million on our balance sheet at December 31, 2019 excludes $1.5 million of unrecognized revenue invoiced by us during the quarter ended December 31, 2019. Prior to the customer missing the first scheduled payment in late November, we recognized $2.5 million of revenue from this customer for the quarter ended December 31, 2019. Subsequent to December 31, 2019, we have commenced negotiations with the customer to enter into an agreement requiring the customer to pay a portion of the trade accounts receivable in the near term, to pay all rental payments going forward on a current basis and convert the remaining amount owed into a debt instrument, secured by certain of the customers assets. The Company expects to finalize the agreement with the customer in its second quarter ending March 31, 2020. While we have significant concerns about the ultimate collection of our accounts receivable from this customer, we have not provided any additional bad debt reserves toward the outstanding accounts receivable balance from this customer due to the on-going negotiations. If it becomes probable (in our judgment) that the customer is unable to generate cash flows sufficient to satisfy the customers obligations from the variety of options available to it, we will record additional bad debt reserves. The current negotiations may not lead to a definitive agreement being entered into; or the fair market value of the collateral securing the debt under the agreement may not equal or exceed the balance of accounts receivable owed by the customer; or the customer may not meet its payment obligations. If any of these situations occur, we could record a significant bad debt reserve as soon as the second quarter of fiscal year 2020. Our available cash and cash equivalents totaled $10.1 million at December 31, 2019, which included $6.9 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law on December 22, 2017, creates new taxes on certain foreign earnings and also requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on undistributed earnings of their foreign subsidiaries which were previously tax deferred. We have determined that we are not required to pay any transition tax on the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries since we had no accumulated earnings on a consolidated basis. 24 Our credit agreement allows for borrowings of up to $30.0 million with such amounts available for borrowing determined by a borrowing base. In November 2019, we amended the credit agreement to (i) extend the maturity date from April 2020 to April 2022, (ii) increase the unencumbered liquid assets covenant threshold from $5 million to $10 million commencing with the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2020 and for each fiscal quarter thereafter, (iii) to increase the tangible net worth requirement from $140 million to $145 million commencing with the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2020 and for each fiscal quarter thereafter and (iv) remove the requirement that we obtain the consent of Frost Bank prior to paying dividends or repurchasing stock so long as we are in compliance with the covenants of the credit agreement. At December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement and our borrowing availability under the credit facility was $ 24.7 million. At December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement. We currently do not anticipate the need to borrow under the credit agreement; however, we can make no assurance that we will not do so. In the absence of future profitable results of operations, we may need to rely on other sources of liquidity to fund our future operations, including executed rental contracts, available borrowings under our credit agreement through its expiration in April 2022, leveraging or sale of real estate assets, sales of rental assets and other liquidity sources which may be available to us. However, currently we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to finance any future operating losses and planned capital expenditures through the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any obligations which meet the definition of an off-balance sheet arrangement and which have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial statements or the items contained therein that are material to investors. Contractual Obligations Contingent Consideration We recorded an initial contingent earn-out liability of $7.7 million in connection with our July 2018 acquisition of Quantum. Subsequent to the acquisition, we have reduced the estimated contingent earn-out liability to $4.8 million. Contingent payments, if any, may be paid in the form of cash or Company stock and will be derived from eligible revenue generated during the four-year post-acquisition earn-out period ending in July 2022. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.5 million We recorded an initial contingent earn-out liability of $4.3 million in connection with our November 2018 acquisition of all the intellectual property and related assets of the OptoSeis fiber optic sensing technology. Subsequent to the acquisition, we have increased the estimated contingent earn-out liability to $5.1 million. Contingent cash payments, if any, will be derived from eligible revenue generated during a five-and-a-half year post acquisition earn-out period ending in May 2024. The maximum amount of contingent payments is $23.2 million. We review and access the fair value of our contingent earn-out liabilities on a quarterly basis. At December 31, 2019, we re-accessed our projections of future eligible revenue and determined that the projections had not materially changed since September 30, 2019. Based on the assessment, no adjustments were made to the fair value of our contingent earn-out liabilities for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Critical Accounting Policies During the three months ended December 31, 2019, there has been no material change to our critical accounting policies discussed in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 25