Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, references in this section to the Company, Getty Images, we, us, our and other similar terms refer to Getty Images Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of Getty Images should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The discussion should also be read together with the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the Item 1A. Risk Factors section and historical audited annual consolidated financial statements of Getty Images Holdings, Inc. as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 and the respective notes thereto, included in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2023 Form 10-K). We qualify as a smaller reporting company because the market value of our shares of Class A common stock held by non-affiliates was less than $200 million as of the end of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter. If we are a smaller reporting company at the time we cease to be an emerging growth company, we may continue to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are available to smaller reporting companies. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of the words such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, expect, should, would, plan, project, forecast, predict, potential, seem, seek, future, outlook, target or similar expressions that predict or indicate future events or trends or that are not statements of historical matters. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding estimates and forecasts of other financial and performance metrics and projections of market opportunity. These statements are based on various assumptions, whether or not identified in this report, and on the current expectations of our management and are not predictions of actual performance. These forward-looking statements are provided for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to serve as, and must not be relied on by any investor as, a guarantee, an assurance, a prediction or a definitive statement of fact or probability. Actual events and circumstances are difficult or impossible to predict and will differ from assumptions. Many actual events and circumstances are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: our inability to continue to license third-party content and offer relevant quality and diversity of content to satisfy customer needs; our ability to attract new customers and retain and motivate an increase in spending by its existing customers; our ability to grow our subscriptions business; the user experience of our customers on its websites; the extent to which we are able to maintain and expand the breadth and quality of our content library through content licensed from third-party suppliers, content acquisitions and imagery captured by our staff of in-house photographers; the mix of and basis upon which we license our content, including the price-points at, and the license models and purchase options through, which we license our content; the risk that we operate in a highly competitive market; the risk that we are unable to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively manage costs; our inability to effectively manage our growth; our inability to maintain an effective system of internal controls and financial reporting; the risk that we may lose the right to use Getty Images trademarks; our inability to evaluate our future prospects and challenges due to evolving markets and customers industries; the legal, social and ethical issues relating to the use of new and evolving technologies, such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), including statements regarding AI and innovation momentum; The increased use of AI applications such as generative AI technologies that may result in harm to our brand, reputation, business, or intellectual property; 14 Table of Contents the risk that our operations in and continued expansion into international markets bring additional business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks; our inability to adequately adapt our technology systems to ingest and deliver sufficient new content; the risk of technological interruptions or cybersecurity breaches, incidents, and vulnerabilities; the risk that any prolonged strike by, or lockout of, one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to the production of films or television programs, such as the 2023 strike by the writers union and the actors' unions, could further impact our entertainment business; the inability to expand our operations into new products, services and technologies and to increase customer and supplier awareness of new and emerging products and services, including with respect to our AI initiatives; the loss of and inability to attract and retain key personnel that could negatively impact our business growth; the inability to protect the proprietary information of customers and networks against security breaches and protect and enforce intellectual property rights; our reliance on third parties; the risks related to our use of independent contractors; the risk that an increase in government regulation of the industries and markets in which we operate could negatively impact our business; the impact of worldwide and regional political, military or economic conditions, including declines in foreign currencies in relation to the value of the U.S. dollar, hyperinflation, higher interest rates, devaluation, the impact of recent bank failures on the marketplace and the ability to access credit and significant political or civil disturbances in international markets where we conduct business; the risk that claims, judgements, lawsuits and other proceedings that have been, or may be, instituted against us or our predecessors could adversely affect our business; the inability to maintain the listing of our Class A common stock on the New York Stock Exchange; volatility in our stock price and in the liquidity of the trading market for our Class A common stock; the lingering effect of the COVID-19 pandemic; changes in applicable laws or regulations; the risks associated with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure requirements; the risk of greater than anticipated tax liabilities; the risks associated with the storage and use of personally identifiable information; earnings-related risks such as those associated with late payments, goodwill or other intangible assets; our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms; the risks associated with being an emerging growth company and smaller reporting company within the meaning of the U. S. securities laws; risks associated with our reliance on information technology in critical areas of our operations; our inability to pay dividends for the foreseeable future; the risks associated with additional issuances of Class A common stock without stockholder approval; costs related to operating as a public company; and other risks and uncertainties identified in Item 1A. Risk Factors of our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks materialize or our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from the results implied by these forward-looking statements. These and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those implied by the forward-looking statements in this report are more fully described under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2023 Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. The risks described under the heading Item 1.A. Risk Factors in our 2023 Form 10-K are not exhaustive. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing 15 Table of Contents cautionary statements. We undertake no obligations to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In addition, the statements of belief and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us, as applicable, as of the date of this report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and you are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Business Overview Getty Images is a preeminent global visual content creator and marketplace, providing a diverse collection of high-quality photos, illustrations, videos, and music licensing to businesses, media organizations, and individuals worldwide. The Company was founded in 1995 by Mark Getty and Jonathan Klein and has since become one of the largest and most respected providers of stock imagery and multimedia content. For over 29 years, Getty Images has embraced innovation, from analog to digital, from offline to e-commerce, from stills to video, from single image purchasing to subscriptions, from websites to application programming interfaces (APIs), from pre-shot content to AI generated content designed to be commercially safe. With quality content at the core of our offerings, we embrace innovation as a means to service our existing customers better and to reach new ones. We offer comprehensive content solutions, including a la carte (ALC) and subscription access to our pre-shot content and coverage, generative AI-services, custom content and coverage solutions, digital asset management tools, data insights, research, and print offerings. Through our content and coverage, Getty Images moves the world whether the goal is commercial or philanthropic, revenue-generating or society-changing, market-disrupting or headline-driving. Through our staff, our exclusive contributors and partners, and our expertise, data, and research, Getty Images content grabs attention, sheds light, represents communities, and reminds us of our history. Through Getty Images, iStock, and Unsplash, we offer a full range of content solutions to meet the needs of any customerno matter their sizearound the globe, with over 572 million visual assets available through its industry-leading sites. New content and coverage are added daily, with over 10 million new assets added each quarter and over 2.7 billion searches annually. The Company has more than 750,000 purchasing customers, with customers from almost every country in the world with websites in 23 languages bringing the worlds best content to media outlets, advertising agencies, and corporations of all sizes and, increasingly, serving individual creators and prosumers. In support of its content, Getty Images employs over 110 staff photographers and videographers and distributes the content of over 564,000 contributors and more than 320 premium content partners. Over 80,000 of our contributors are exclusive to the Company, creating content that cannot be found anywhere else. Each year, we cover more than 160,000 global events across news, sport, and entertainment, providing a depth and breadth of coverage that is unmatched. Getty Images also maintains one of the largest and best privately-owned photographic archives in the world, with over 135 million images across geographies, periods, and verticals. We distribute content and services offerings through three primary product lines: Creative Creative is comprised of royalty-free (RF) photos, illustrations, vectors, videos, and generative AI-services that are released for commercial use and cover a wide variety of commercial, conceptual, and contemporary subjects, including lifestyle, business, science, health, wellness, beauty, sports, transportation and travel. This content is available for immediate use by a wide range of customers with depth, breadth, and quality, allowing our customers to produce impactful websites, digital media, social media, marketing campaigns, corporate collateral, textbooks, movies, television, and online video content relevant to their target geographies and audiences. We primarily source Creative content from a broad network of professional, semi-professional, and amateur creators, many exclusive to Getty Images. We have a global creative insights team dedicated to providing briefing and art direction to our exclusive contributor community. Creative represents 62.5% and 62.2% of our revenue, of which 56.2% and 49.5% is generated through our annual subscription 16 Table of Contents products for the three months ended March 31, 2024, and 2023, respectively. Annual Subscription products include products and subscriptions for 12 months or longer, Unsplash API, and Custom Content. Editorial Editorial is comprised of photos and videos covering the world of entertainment, sports, and news. We combine contemporary coverage of events around the globe with one of the largest privately held archives globally, with access to images from the beginning of photography. We invest in a dedicated editorial team that includes over 110 staff photographers and videographers to generate our own coverage in addition to coverage from our network of content partners. Editorial represents 35.7% and 35.9% of our revenue, of which 54.6% and 53.4%is generated through our annual subscription products for the three months ended March 31, 2024, and 2023, respectively. Annual Subscription products include subscriptions with a duration of 12 months or longer. Other Other represents 1.8% and 1.9% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. This includes music licensing, digital asset management, distribution services, print sales, and data licensing. We service a full range of customers through our industry-leading brands and websites: Getty Images Gettyimages.com offers premium creative content and editorial coverage, including video, with exclusive content, and customizable rights and protections. This site primarily serves more prominent enterprise agency, media, and corporate customers with global customer support from our sales and service teams. Customers can purchase on an ALC basis or through our content subscriptions, including our Premium Access subscription, where we uniquely offer frictionless access across all of our content in one solution. iStock iStock.com is our budget-conscious e-commerce offering our customers access to creative stills and video, which includes exclusive content. This site primarily serves small and medium-sized businesses, including the growing freelance market. Customers can purchase on an ALC basis or through a range of monthly and annual subscription options with access to an extensive amount of unique and exclusive content. Unsplash Unsplash.com is a platform offering free stock photo downloads and paid subscriptions targeted to the high-growth prosumer and semi-professional creator segments. The Unsplash website reaches a significant and geographically diverse audience with more than 110 million image downloads every month. In addition to our websites, customers and partners can access and integrate our content, metadata and search capabilities via our APIs and through a range of mobile apps and plugins. We are a critical intermediary between content suppliers and a broad set of customers. We compete against a broad range of stock licensing marketplaces, editorial news agencies, creative agencies, production companies, staff and freelance photographers and videographers, photo and video archives, freelance marketplaces and amateur content creators, creative tools and services and free sources. Getty Images unique offering and approach offers a strong value proposition to our customers and content contributors. For customers: We offer a comprehensive suite of high quality, authentic content, purchase and licensing options and services to meet the needs of our customers, regardless of project requirements, needs or budgets. Our content sourcing and production, rights oversight, websites and content distribution are all supported by a unique, scalable cloud-based unified platform with powerful artificial intelligence/machine learning and data addressing all customers at scale. Customers have access to Generative AI by Getty Images and iStock which is designed to be a commercially-safe and responsible solution designed to help embrace AI, elevate creativity, and ideate or iterate on concepts and compositions. 17 Table of Contents Customers can avoid the costly investment and environmental impact of producing content on their own. This can include costs incurred from staffing, travel and access, model and location, hardware and production, and editing. Customers do not have to wait for content to be produced and distributed and can avoid the difficulties and pitfalls of searching across the internet to locate and negotiate for rights to license or use specific content. Our best-in-class, scaled infrastructure offers customers a one-stop shop for instant content access and maneuverability. Customers licensing from Getty Images and iStock receive trusted copyright claim protections, model and property releases and the ability to secure the necessary clearances for their intended use of the content. For content contributors: Access to a marketplace that reaches almost every country in the world, across all customer categories and sizes and generated annual royalties of nearly $220 million for the trailing twelve months ending March 31, 2024. We maintain a dedicated and experienced creative insights team focused on understanding changes in customer demand, the visual landscape, the authentic portrayal of communities and cultures, and the evolution of core creative concepts. We work closely with leading organizations to augment our proprietary research and understanding of communities and cultures to provide content with authentic depiction. We convey this research to our exclusive contributors via actionable insights allowing them to invest in and create content that accurately caters to changing consumer demand and up to date market trends. Not only do we provide exclusive contributors with scaled access to end markets and proprietary information, but we also provide premium royalty rates. This allows our exclusive contributors and partners to confidently invest more into their productions with the potential to generate higher returns. Partnering with Getty Images allows contributors to focus on content creation and avoid time and financial investment in the marketing, sales, distribution and management of their content. Our Generative AI by Getty Images and iStock products compensates our world-class content creators for the use of their work in our AI models, allowing them to continue to create more high-quality pre-shot imagery. Macroeconomic Conditions The broader implications of the macroeconomic environment, including uncertainty around recent international armed conflicts in the Ukraine and the Middle East, geopolitical tensions, supply chain shortages, inflationary and interest rate pressures, and other related global economic conditions, remain unknown. A deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could continue to increase the risk of lower consumer spending, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, or other business interruptions, which may adversely impact our business and financial results. Components of Operating Results Revenue We generate revenue by licensing content to customers through multiple license models and purchase options, as well as by providing related services to our customers. The key image licensing model in the pre-shot market is RF. Content licensed on a RF basis is subject to a standard set of terms, allowing the customer to use the image for an unlimited duration and without limitation on the use or application. Within our video offering, we also offer a licensing model known as Rights-Ready. The Rights-Ready model offers a limited selection of broader usage categories, thus simplifying the purchase process. In September 2023 and January 2024, we launched Generative AI by Getty Images and Generative AI by iStock, respectively. They are generative AI text to image tools that were trained exclusively on Getty Images worldclass creative content and designed for commercial use. Customers that download visuals through the tool will receive the standard royaltyfree license. In addition to licensing imagery and video, we generate revenue from custom content solutions, photo and video assignments, music content in some of our subscriptions, print sales, data licensing and licensing our digital asset management systems to help customers manage their owned and licensed digital content. A significant portion of the business has transitioned to a subscription model with strong retention characteristics. Subscriptions now comprises approximately 55% of total revenue, and we continue to focus on growing subscription revenue. References to reported revenue in this discussion and analysis are to our revenue as reported in our historical condensed consolidated financial statements for the relevant periods and reflect the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. References to currency neutral (Currency Neutral or CN) revenue growth or decline (expressed as a percentage) in this section refer to our revenue growth or decline (expressed as a percentage), excluding the effect of 18 Table of Contents changes in foreign currency exchange rates. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information regarding Currency Neutral revenue growth or decline (expressed as a percentage). Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) The ownership rights to the majority of the content we license are retained by the owners, and licensing rights are provided to us by a large network of content contributors and content partners. When we license content entrusted to us by content suppliers, we pay royalties to them at varying rates depending on the license model and the use of that content that our customers select. Suppliers who choose to work with us under contract typically receive royalties of 20% to 50% of the total license fee we charge customers, depending on the basis on which their content is licensed by our customers. Contributors will be compensated for any inclusion of their content in AI data training sets and, in certain cases, share in the revenue generated by AI tools and services trained with their content. We also own the copyright to certain content in our collections (wholly-owned content), including content produced by our staff photographers for our editorial product, for which we do not pay any third-party royalties. Cost of revenue includes certain costs of our assignment photo shoots, but excludes amortization associated with creating or buying content. Cost of revenue consists primarily of royalties owed to content contributors, comprised of photographers, filmmakers, third-party companies that license their collection of content through us (Content Partners) and third party music content providers. Going forward, we expect cost of revenue to trend higher in absolute dollars as we continue growing our revenue. We expect our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue to vary modestly based on changes in revenue mix by product, as royalty rates vary depending on license model and use of content. Selling, general, and administrative expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) primarily consist of staff costs, marketing expenses, occupancy costs, professional fees and other general operating charges. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars but remain relatively constant as a percentage of revenue in the near term. Absolute dollar spending will increase as we continue to expand our operations and invest in our growth. Lastly, we expect our marketing to stay relatively constant as a percentage of revenue. However, the Company will continue to evaluate opportunities to incrementally invest in marketing as may be appropriate. Depreciation Depreciation expense consists of internally developed software, content and equipment depreciation. We record property and equipment at cost and reflect Balance Sheet balances net of accumulated depreciation. We record depreciation expense on a straight-line basis. We depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter of the respective lives of the leases or the useful lives of the improvements. We expect depreciation expense to remain stable as we continue to innovate and invest in the design, user experience and performance of our websites. Amortization Amortization expense consists of the amortization of intangible assets related to acquired customer relationships, trademarks and other intangible assets. The majority of our intangible assets have been fully amortized. We expect amortization expense to be insignificant in the coming years. Impact of Currency Fluctuations Assets and liabilities for subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are recorded in foreign currencies and translated at the exchange rate on the Balance Sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged or credited to Other comprehensive income (loss), as a separate component of stockholders deficit. The Company recognized net foreign currency translation adjustment losses of $15.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and net foreign currency translation adjustment gains of $8.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in Foreign exchange gain (losses) net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the Company recognized net foreign currency 19 Table of Contents transaction gains of $16.4 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of $10.9 million. 20 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our operating results for the periods indicated. Three Months Ended March 31, increase (decrease) (In thousands, except percentages) 2024 2023 $ change % change Revenue $ 222,278 $ 235,642 $ (13,364) (5.7) % Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 60,256 63,286 (3,030) (4.8) % Selling, general and administrative expenses 100,944 102,223 (1,279) (1.3) % Depreciation 14,360 13,023 1,337 10.3 % Amortization 534 7,207 (6,673) (92.6) % Loss on litigation 2,022 172 1,850 NM Other operating expenses net 3,128 279 2,849 NM Total operating expenses 181,244 186,190 (4,946) (2.7) % Income from operations 41,034 49,452 (8,418) (17.0) % Interest expense (32,724) (30,497) (2,227) 7.3 % Loss on fair value adjustment for swaps net (1,459) (2,085) 626 (30.0) % Unrealized foreign exchange gains (loss) net 16,422 (10,922) 27,344 NM Other non-operating income net 1,515 488 1,027 NM Total other expense net (16,246) (43,016) 26,770 (62) % Income before income taxes 24,788 6,436 18,352 NM Income tax expense (11,201) (3,233) (7,968) NM Net income $ 13,587 $ 3,203 $ 10,384 NM ________________________ NM - Not meaningful Revenue Revenue by products for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 is as follows: (In thousands, except percentages) (1) Three Months Ended March 31, increase / (decrease) 2024 % of revenue 2023 % of revenue $ change % change CN % change Creative 138,858 62.5 % 146,460 62.2 % (7,602) (5.2) % (5.2) % Editorial 79,429 35.7 % 84,661 35.9 % (5,232) (6.2) % (6.4) % Other 3,991 1.8 % 4,521 1.9 % (530) (11.7) % (11.8) % Total revenue $ 222,278 100.0 % $ 235,642 100.0 % $ (13,364) (5.7) % (5.7) %(1) Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, total revenue on a reported basis was $222.3 million as compared to $235.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. On both a reported and Currency Neutral basis, revenue decreased by 5.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Included in these results are certain impacts of the timing of revenue recognition, which reduced year-on-year growth by approximately 360basis points in the first quarter of 2024. Creative revenue decreased 5.2% on both a reported and currency-neutral basis to $138.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to $146.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Non-subscription creative revenue decreased 17.8% or $13.2 million, driven by an $8.6 million drop in Premium Royalty-Free ALC and Ultra Packs and a $2.5 million decrease in iStock credits. This decline was largely driven by our Agency customers, which are accounted for entirely within Creative Revenue and purchase on mainly an ALC basis. The decline was partially offset by creative subscription revenue, which increased 7.7% or $5.6 million. This growth was fueled by strong gains in our e-commerce subscription offerings, including a 27.7% increase in iStock subscriptions. We believe the strong uptake across these annual subscription 21 Table of Contents products demonstrates our continued success in converting customers to a recurring revenue model. Editorial revenue decreased on a reported basis by $5.2 million or 6.2% to $79.4 million and 6.4% on a currency-neutral basis. This decrease was driven by a $3.3 million or 10.9% decline in editorial ALC revenue, largely due to residual impacts from 2023 Hollywood strikes. Related to this, Editorial revenue faced difficult year-over-year comparisons after achieving double-digit growth in the prior year period, especially within our News, Archive, and Entertainment verticals with the prior year period being the only quarter of Editorial growth in 2023, with all other quarters impacted by the Hollywood strikes. In addition, editorial subscriptions decreased by $1.8 million or 4.1% due to lower demand from media customers impacted by the prior year Hollywood strikes. Other productsrevenue decreased on a reported basis by $0.5 million or 11.7% to $4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to $4.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. On a currency-neutral basis, other revenue decreased 11.8% compared to the same period in 2023. The decrease was primarily driven by a decline in data licensing. Timing of Revenue Recognition The timing of our revenue recognition can be influenced by several factors, including the nature of the contract with the customer, and the Company's estimates regarding unused content and customer download patterns. These factors can lead to variability in the timing and amount of revenue recognized in a given period. The weakening or strengthening of our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, during any given period compared to currencies we collect revenues in, most notably, the Euro and British pound, impacts our reported revenues. Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $60.3 million compared to $63.3 million in the same prior year period. As a percentage of total revenue, cost of revenue was 27.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to 26.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase in cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue compared to the prior year was due primarily to revenue mix by product. Generally, cost of revenue rates vary modestly period over period based on changes in revenue mix by product, as royalty rates vary depending on the license model and use of content. Revenue, less cost of revenue, was $162.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of $10.3 million or 6.0% compared to $172.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decline in revenue, less cost of revenue, was in line with the decrease in revenue. Revenue, less cost of revenue, represented 72.9% of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to 73.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Selling, general, and administrative expense Reported selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $100.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of $1.3 million or 1.3% compared to $102.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. As a percentage of revenue, SG&A expenses increased to 45.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from 43.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. On a percentage of revenue basis, the increase in SG&A expenses was driven by the fixed and semi-fixed nature of certain expenses against lower revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024. On a Currency Neutral basis, SG&A expense increased 1.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the same period in 2023. Reported SG&A expenses included a decrease of $3.0 million in marketing expenses compared to the prior year period. As a percentage of sales, marketing spend decreased to 5.2% in the three months ended March 31, 2024 from 6.2% in the three months ended March 31, 2023. Lower investments in digital marketing initiatives drove this reduction in marketing spend. SG&A expenses also included lower professional fees by $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the same period in the prior year. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase of $3.0 million in equity compensation expense related to shares granted as part of our earn out plan. Depreciation expense Depreciation expense was $14.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $1.3 million or 10.3% compared to $13.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase is due to capital investments made that are primarily related to internal software development as we continue to innovate and invest in the design, user experience and performance of our websites. 22 Table of Contents Amortization expense For the three months ended March 31, 2024, amortization expense was $0.5 million, which was a decrease of $6.7 million or 92.6% compared to $7.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decline was attributed to several of the Companys intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the prior year. Loss on litigation For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, the Company recognized loss on litigation of $2.0 million and $0.2 million, respectively. The loss on litigation consists of the interest on the summary judgment, legal fees, and amortization of fees related to appeal bond. The Company will continue to see these expenses as we navigate through the appeal of the judgment. Other operating expenses net Other operating expenses - net was $3.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Acquisition costs, settlements of claims, and pre-acquisition Unsplash employment tax obligations drove the increase. We expect other operating expenses to fluctuate from period to period as this line item is heavily influenced by non-recurring events such as claims, settlements, and gains/losses on asset disposals. Interest expense We recognized interest expense of $32.7 million and $30.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, and March 31, 2023, respectively. Our interest expense primarily consists of interest charges on our outstanding U.S. dollar and Euro term loans (the Term Loans), $300.0 million of Senior Unsecured Notes (the Senior Notes), and the unused portion of our revolving credit facility as well as the amortization of original issue discount on our Term Loans and amortization of deferred debt financing fees. The increase in interest expense from the prior year period was due to the rise in interest rates. Loss on fair value adjustment for swaps net We recognized fair value adjustment net losses for our swaps of $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. During the three months ended March 31, 2023 we recognized net losses of $2.1 million for our swaps. The losses were driven by changes in interest and foreign exchange rates relative to the rates in our derivatives. Although we may experience volatility in the fair value adjustments on our derivative instruments, we believe hedging allows us to reduce our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risks. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to utilize swaps, forwards, and other instruments to mitigate financial risks associated with our business. Unrealized foreign exchange gains (loss) net We recognized foreign exchange gains, net of $16.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to net losses of $10.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The revaluation of our outstanding EUR-denominated debt primarily drove the foreign exchange gains. As of March 31, 2024, and 2023, we had 419 million in outstanding EUR Term Loans. Foreign exchange swung from a net loss in 2023 to a net gain in 2024, driven by the Euro strengthening against the US dollar in the current year versus weakening in the prior year comparative period. We expect continued volatility in foreign exchange gains and losses each quarter based on fluctuations in exchange rates impacting our foreign currency exposures. Other non-operating income net We recognized other non-operating income, net of $1.5 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, and March 31, 2023, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher interest income of $1.0 million, driven by a significant increase in U.S. interest rates between March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2024. We also recorded minimal dividend income received from certain cost-method investments in both periods presented. We expect continued fluctuation in this line item based on market interest rates and the amount of cash available for investment. 23 Table of Contents Income tax expense The Companys income tax expense increased by $8.0 million to an expense of $11.2 million for three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to $3.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The Companys effective income tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2024 is 45.2%, compared to 50.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase in income tax expense is due to increases in pre-tax income (loss) and a release of valuation allowance in the prior year. 24 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of liquidity are our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by operations and amounts available under our revolving credit facility. As of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $134.2 million and $136.6 million, respectively, and availability under our revolving credit facility of $150.0 million, which expires May 4, 2028. Our principal liquidity needs include debt service and capital expenditures, as well as those required to support working capital, internal growth, and strategic acquisitions and investments. Deferred revenue represents the majority of our current liabilities, which given its nature is not expected to require cash settlement. We also continue to look for the optimal opportunity and market conditions to refinance our debt. We expect to fund our ordinary course operating activities from existing cash and cash flows from operations and believe that these sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund our ordinary course operations and other planned investing activities for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Our liquidity may also be adversely affected by the resolution of pending or future tax audits and legal proceedings. We may be subject to tax liabilities in excess of amounts reserved for liabilities for uncertain tax positions on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. In addition, certain jurisdictions in which we have current open tax audits require taxpayers to pay assessed taxes in advance of contesting, whether by way of litigation or appeal, an adverse determination or assessment by the relevant taxing authority. The amount of any such advance payment depends upon the amount in controversy and may be material, and payment of any such amount could adversely affect our liquidity. A jurisdiction that collects any such advance payment generally will repay such amounts if we ultimately prevail in the related litigation or appeal. See Note13 - Commitments and Contingencies and Note 20 - Income Taxes in our consolidated financial statements included in our 2023 Form 10-K for additional discussions of our pending tax audits and our uncertain tax positions and risks related thereto. Our cash flows are as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, increase (decrease) (In thousands) 2024 2023 $ change % change Net cash provided by operating activities $ 21,528 $ 31,915 $ (10,387) (32.5) % Net cash used in investing activities $ (14,452) $ (15,525) $ 1,073 6.9 % Net cash used in financing activities $ (5,272) $ (47) $ (5,225) NM Effects of exchange rate fluctuations $ (3,918) $ 2,541 $ (6,459) NM Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities is primarily comprised of net income, as adjusted for non-cash items, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash adjustments consist primarily of depreciation, amortization, unrealized gains and losses on our foreign denominated debt, and equity-based compensation. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 cash provided by operating activities was $21.5 million, as compared to cash provided by operating activities of $31.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by lower Adjusted EBITDA, and to a lesser extent increased interest and tax payments. Investing Activities The changes in cash flows from investing activities relate to purchases of property and equipment and internal software development as part of our ongoing efforts to innovate in the design, user experience, and performance of our websites. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, and 2023, cash used in investing activities was $14.5 million and $15.5 million, respectively. The decrease in cash used for investing activities was due to reduced capital expenditures on property and equipment, reflecting strategic investments in internal software development to enhance our digital offerings and operational efficiency. 25 Table of Contents Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash used in financing was $5.3 million, compared to less than $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 included debt issuance costs, principal payments on our Term Loans and cash paid for settlement of employee tax related to equity-based awards, partially offset by the proceeds from common stock issuance. Key Performance Indicators and Non-GAAP Financial Measures In our quarterly earnings press releases and conference calls, we discuss the below key performance indicators (KPIs) and financial measures that are not calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We believe the non-GAAP measures of Currency Neutral (CN) revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) and Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (EBITDA), Adjusted EBITDA less capex and Adjusted EBITDA margin are useful in evaluating our operating performance. These KPIs and non-GAAP financial measures help us monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations and evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Management believes that these KPIs and non-GAAP financial measures help illustrate underlying trends in our business. We use KPIs and non-GAAP financial measures to establish budgets and operational goals (communicated internally and externally), manage our business and evaluate our performance. We also believe that management and investors benefit from referring to our KPIs and non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental information in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. We believe our KPIs and non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because they allow for greater transparency with respect to financial measures used by management in their financial and operational decision-making and also because investors and the analyst community use them to help evaluate the health of our business. The non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, and should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures. Key Performance Indicators Our KPIs outlined below are the metrics that provide management with the most immediate understanding of the drivers of business performance and our ability to deliver shareholder return, track to financial targets and prioritize customer satisfaction. Our KPIs are reported on a trailing, or last, 12-month basis (LTM), which provides a more current view of the Company's operational performance than year-to-date figures. KPI comparisons for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2024 reflect Hollywood strike impact. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2023, the KPI comparisons reflect some COVID-19 impact. Last Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Increase / (Decrease) LTM total purchasing customers (thousands) 769 829 (7.2)% LTM total active annual subscribers (thousands) 262 147 79.0% LTM paid download volume (millions)1 95 95 % LTM annual subscriber revenue retention rate 90.0% 99.8% -980 bps Image collection (millions) 544 510 6.7% Video collection (millions) 29 25 15.3% LTM video attachment rate 14.0% 13.4% +60 bps ________________________ 1 Excludes downloads from Editorial Subscriptions, Editorial feeds and certain API structured deals, including bulk unlimited deals. Excludes downloads starting in Q322 tied to a two-year deal signed with Amazon in July 2022, as the magnitude of the potential download volume over the deal term could result in significant fluctuations in this metric without corresponding impact to revenue in the same period. Total purchasing customers Total purchasing customers is defined as the count of total customers who made a purchase within the reporting period based on billed revenue. This metric provides management and investors with an understanding of both how we are growing our purchasing customer base and combined with revenue, an understanding of our average revenue per 26 Table of Contents purchasing customer. This metric differs from total customers, which is a count of all downloading customers, irrespective of whether they made a purchase in the period. Total purchasing customers decreased 7.2% to 769,000 for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2024, compared to 829,000 for the twelve months ended March 31, 2023. This decrease can be attributed to lower ALC transaction volume primarily due to both the ongoing shift of our customers to more committed annual subscription products and a still pressured Agency business which purchases nearly entirely on an ALC basis. Importantly, the shift into more committed solutions continues to have a positive impact on annual revenue per purchasing customer, which grew by 4.5% to $1,174 from $1,123 in the comparable LTM period. Total active annual subscribers Total active annual subscribers is the count of customers who were on an annual subscription product during the LTM reporting period. This metric provides management and investors with visibility into the rate at which we are growing our annual subscriber base and is highly correlated to the percentage of our revenue that comes from annual subscription products. Total active annual subscribers increased 79.0% to 262,000 for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2024 compared to 147,000 for the twelve months ended March 31, 2023. Expanded e-commerce subscriptions including iStock and Unsplash+ subscriptions primarily drove growth. This reflects our strategic focus on subscription offerings to provide comprehensive content solutions. A significant portion of the annual subscribers were new customers, with many coming from our growth expansion markets across LATAM, APAC, and EMEA, and a substantial number of new subscribers also coming from our Core markets. We have a strong pipeline of new customers as demand for visual content continues growing, while also helping existing customers evolve with their expanding visual narratives. Paid download volume Paid download volume is a count of the number of paid downloads by our customers in the reported period. This metric informs both management and investors about the volumes at which customers are engaging with our content over time. The steadiness in paid download volumes signals that our content is continuing to meet the evolving needs of our customers. Paid download volume was flat at 95 million downloads for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023. Annual subscriber revenue retention rate The annual subscriber revenue retention rate calculates retention of total revenue for customers on annual subscription products, comparing the customers total booked revenue (inclusive of spend for annual subscription and non-annual subscription products) in the LTM period to the prior twelve month period. For example, LTM annual subscriber booked revenue (the amount of revenue invoiced to customers) for the period ended March 31, 2024 was 90.0% of revenue from these customers in the period ended March 31, 2023. The revenue retention rate informs management and investors on the degree to which we are maintaining or growing revenue from our annual subscriber base. As we continue to focus on growing subscriptions as percentage of total revenue, revenue retention for these customers is a key driver of the predictability of our financial model with respect to revenue. The annual subscriber revenue retention rate decreased to 90.0% for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2024 from 99.8% over the twelve months ended March 31, 2023. The decline was due primarily to both an expected lower revenue retention rate on some of our smaller E-commerce subscribers, and a reduction in incremental ALC subscriber revenue due to residual strike impacts across some of our media, broadcast and production customers. We also experienced a decline related to one-time project spend in the prior period from certain corporate customers. Broadly speaking, we believe our subscription business is very healthy with revenue renewal rates generally averaging over 90%, and with our Enterprise customer subscriptions generally averaging north of 100%. Image and Video collection Image and Video collection is a count of the total images and videos in our content library as of the reporting date. Management and investors can view growth in the size, both depth and breadth, of the content library as an indication of our ability to continue to expand our content offering with premium, high quality, contemporary content to meet the 27 Table of Contents evolving needs of our customers. Image and video collections increased as of March 31, 2024 compared to March 31, 2023. Our image collection grew 6.7% to 544 million images as of March 31, 2024 compared to 510 million as of March 31, 2023. Our video collection grew 15.3% to 29 million videos over the same period. Video attachment rate Video attachment rate is a measure of the percentage of total paid customer downloaders who are video downloaders. Customer demand for video content continues to grow and represents a significant opportunity for revenue growth for Getty Images. The video attachment rate provides management and investors with an indication of our customers level of engagement with our video content offering. Our expansion of video across our subscription products is focused on further increasing the attachment rate over time. The video attachment rate increased to 14.0% for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2024 from 13.4% for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2023. The video attachment rate provides management and investors with an indication of our customers level of engagement with our video content offering. Our expansion of video across our subscription products is focused on further increasing the attachment rate over time. The increase in video attachment rates from the LTM period ending March 31, 2024 compared to the period ending March 31, 2023 reflects increased customer awareness of our video offering, improved search and site prominence for video content, and upselling of video into subscriptions. Currency Neutral Revenue Currency Neutral revenue changes (expressed as a percentage) excludes the impact of fluctuating foreign currency values pegged to the U.S. dollar between comparative periods by translating all local currencies using the current period exchange rates. We consistently apply this approach to revenue for all countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. We believe that this presentation provides useful supplemental information regarding changes in our revenue not driven by fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies. Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, and Adjusted EBITDA less Capex We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, equity-based compensation, other operating expenses-net, and certain other expenses not directly related to the core operations of our business. A reconciliation is provided below to the most comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. We define Adjusted EBITDA Margin as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to revenue. (In thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net income $ 13,587 $ 3,203 Add/(less) non-GAAP adjustments: Depreciation and amortization 14,894 20,230 Loss on litigation, net of recovery1 2,022 172 Other operating expense - net 3,128 279 Interest expense 32,724 30,497 Fair value adjustments, foreign exchange and other non-operating (income) expense 2 (16,478) 12,519 Income tax expense 11,201 3,233 Equity-based compensation expense 9,134 6,132 Adjusted EBITDA $ 70,212 $ 76,265 Capex 14,452 15,525 Adjusted EBITDA less capex 55,760 60,740 Net income margin 6.1 % 1.4 % Adjusted EBITDA margin 31.6 % 32.4 % ________________________ 28 Table of Contents (1) Beginning in the third quarter 2023 reporting period, the Company reclassified historical legal fees associated with our warrant litigation from Selling, general and administrative expenses to Loss on litigation within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, and revised its Adjusted EBITDA calculation. (2) Fair value adjustments for our swaps, foreign exchange gains (losses) and other insignificant non-operating related expenses (income). Critical Accounting Policies A description of our critical accounting policies that involve significant management judgment appears in our 2023 Form 10-K, under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical accounting policies and estimates. Our accounting policies are also described in Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our Consolidated Financial Statements in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 and in Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our interim condensed consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2024. We believe our most critical accounting policies include revenue recognition, accrued litigation reserves, and accounting for income taxes.