Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources. In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in many transactions where the ultimate tax determination may be uncertain. Although we believe our tax provisions are reasonable, the final determination of tax 34 Table of Content audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and reserves for uncertain tax positions. We have created reserves with respect to such tax liabilities where we believe it to be appropriate. The final determination of such tax liabilities could have a material effect on our tax provision, net income, earnings per share, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made as well as subsequent periods. Furthermore, we have operations in various taxing jurisdictions in the United States and in other countries, and there is a risk that our tax liabilities in future taxable periods in one or more jurisdictions could exceed our estimated tax liabilities or our tax liabilities in prior taxable periods despite our plan to structure our activities in a manner so as to minimize our tax liabilities. In addition, there are a number of applicable and potential government regulations that may impact the Company. For example, the U.S. federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA), enacted in December 2017, resulted in fundamental changes to the Code, including, among many other things, a reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate, a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, a limitation on the deductibility of certain director and officer compensation expense, limitations on net operating loss carrybacks and carryovers and changes relating to the scope and timing of U.S. taxation on earnings from international business operations. Subsequent legislation, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) enacted on March 27, 2020, relaxed certain of the limitations imposed by the TCJA for certain taxable years, including the limitation on the use and carryback of net operating losses and the limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense. The exact impact of the TCJA and the CARES Act for future years is difficult to quantify, but these changes could materially affect our effective tax rate in future periods. In addition, we are subject to the Inflation Reduction Act, which imposes a 1% excise tax on certain stock repurchases and a 15% alternative minimum tax on certain adjusted financial statement income. Several other legislative proposals have been set forth that would, if enacted, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws. Congress may consider, and could include, some or all of these proposals in connection with tax reform that may be undertaken. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could take effect. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals and other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could have an adverse impact on our effective rate of tax in future periods. We may have exposure to sales or other transaction taxes (including VAT) on our past and future transactions. A successful assertion by any jurisdiction that we failed to pay such sales or other transaction taxes, or the imposition of new laws requiring the payment of such taxes, could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales, create increased administrative burdens or costs, discourage customers from purchasing images from us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we are currently subject to and in the future may become subject to additional compliance requirements for certain of these taxes. Where appropriate, we have made accruals for these taxes, which are reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Due to the large and expanding scale of our international business activities, any changes in the U.S. taxation of such activities may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, tax authorities in a number of U.S. states, as well as the U.S. Congress, are currently reviewing the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in online commerce, and new state tax regulations might subject us to additional state sales and other taxes. If one or more U.S. local, state or non-U.S. jurisdictions impose sales tax collection obligations on us, our sales into such state or jurisdiction might decrease because the effective cost of purchasing goods from us increases for those residing in these states or jurisdictions. We might also incur significant financial and organizational burdens in order to set up the infrastructure required to comply with these applicable new tax regulations. We collect, store, process, transmit and use personal information, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations in many jurisdictions related to privacy, information security and data protection. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such legal obligations by us, or by our third-party service providers or partners, could harm our business. It is not always clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, and personal privacy apply to the internet and e-commerce, as the vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the internet or e-commerce. Regulatory scrutiny of privacy, data collection, use of data and data protection continues to intensify both within the United States and globally. The personal information and other data we collect, store, process and use are increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, especially in the U.K. and Europe. These laws often develop in ways we cannot predict and some laws may be in conflict with one another. This may significantly increase our cost of doing business, particularly as we expand our localization efforts. In addition, we may not be readily able to achieve 35 Table of Content compliance with the requirements of certain privacy and data security laws and regulations within the required periods for compliance. For example, we are subject to the General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), which imposes stringent operational requirements for controllers and processors of personal information of individuals in the U.K. and European Economic Area (the EEA), and noncompliance can trigger fines of up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of global annual revenues. Further, following the U.K.s formal exit from the E.U. in January 2020, we became subject to the GDPR as incorporated into U.K. law. In June 2021, the European Commission formally approved an adequacy decision for the U.K. on data protection in which they deemed the U.K.s data protection regime sufficient to protect E.U. personal data, but the U.K. is considering changes to the Data Protection Act and there is no guarantee that the European Commission will continue to retain its adequacy decision with respect to U.K. data protection law in the future. Additionally, although we are making use of the E.U. Standard Contractual Clauses with regard to the transfer of certain personal data to countries outside the EEA, recent legal developments in Europe have created complexity and regulatory compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of personal information from the EEA to the United States. For example, on July 10, 2023, the European Commission adopted a new adequacy decision on the E.U.-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (Data Privacy Framework), following the invalidation of the E.U.-U.S. Data Privacy Shield by the Court of Justice of the European Union in July 2020. The Data Privacy Framework create new privacy obligations allowing personal information to be transferred from the E.U. to U.S. entities who have self-certified under the framework. We currently rely on a mixture of mechanisms to transfer personal data from our U.K. and E.U. businesses to the U.S. and we are an active participant in we are an active participant in the Data Privacy Framework (list available at https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/). As supervisory authorities issue further guidance on personal information export mechanisms, including circumstances where the standard contractual clauses cannot be used and/or start taking enforcement action, we could suffer additional costs, complaints, and/or regulatory investigations or fines. Moreover, if we are otherwise unable to transfer personal information between and among countries and regions in which we operate, it could affect the manner in which we provide our services and could adversely affect our financial results. Several other foreign jurisdictions have adopted or are considering adopting new or updated comprehensive privacy legislation to offer additional data privacy for individuals, such as: Brazil, where its General Data Protection Law that imposes detailed rules for the collection, use, processing and storage of personal data in Brazil took effect on September 18, 2020, and became enforceable on August 1, 2021; and India, where on August 9, 2023 the Digital Personal Data Protection Act was passed and comes into effect in June 2024, which imposes rules regarding the collection, use, processing and storage of personal data in India. Additionally, data privacy laws have been enacted in a number of jurisdictions, including, but not limited to, the European Union and certain U.S. states such as Illinois, Texas and Washington (in addition to U.S. cities, such as New York City), which regulate the collection and use of certain biometric data regarding individuals, including their facial images, and the use of such data, including in facial recognition systems. Similar laws have also been introduced in several additional states, but have not yet been enacted. We have entered into certain contractual agreements that may implicate or make use of such technology. Such laws may have the effect of adversely impacting our ability to grow our business in that area. Although we are closely monitoring regulatory developments in this area, any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with any regulatory requirements or orders or other domestic or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others (e.g., class action litigation), subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase our costs and/or adversely affect our business. Data protection legislation is also becoming increasingly common in the United States at both the federal and state level. For example, in June 2018, the State of California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which came into effect on January 1, 2020. The CCPA requires, among other things, companies that collect personal information about California residents to make new disclosures to those residents about their data collection, use and sharing practices, allows residents to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties, and provides a new cause of action for data breaches. The California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) came into effect on January 1, 2023 (with a look back to January 2022). It amends and expands the CCPA to add additional disclosure obligations (including an obligation to disclose retention periods or criteria for categories of personal information), grant consumers additional rights (including rights to correct their data, limit the use and disclosure of sensitive personal information, and opt out of the sharing of personal information for certain targeted behavioral advertising purposes), and establishes a privacy enforcement agency known as the California Privacy Protection Agency (CPPA). The CPPA will serve as Californias chief privacy regulator, which will likely result in greater regulatory activity and enforcement in the privacy area. Further, the New York SHIELD Act became effective on March 21, 2020, the VACDPA became effective on January 1, 2023; the CPA and CTDPA both became effective on July 1, 2023; the UCPA became effective on December 31, 2023 (UCPA, together with the CCPA, CPRA, VACDPA, and CTDPA, the U.S. State Privacy Laws). The Florida Digital Bill of Rights, Montana Consumer Data Privacy Act, Oregon Consumer Data Privacy Act, and the Texas Data Privacy and 36 Table of Content Security Act are expected to become effective by the end of 2024. Each of these laws carry similar consumer rights to those provided under the GDPR and Californias privacy laws, and require companies to make detailed disclosures to residents of those states about their data collection, use and sharing practices. Other states have also considered or are considering similar privacy laws. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination and security of data. The scope and interpretation of data privacy and cybersecurity regulations continues to evolve, and we believe that the adoption of increasingly restrictive regulations in this area is likely in the near future within the U.S. at both state and federal levels. The burdens imposed by the U.S. State Privacy Laws and other similar laws that may be enacted at the federal and state level may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs in order to comply with these laws and to investigate, and defend against potential private class-action litigation or litigation brought by regulatory authorities. In the event of a security incident, we may also have obligations under foreign and U.S. breach notification laws, such as the New York SHIELD Act, which became effective on March 21, 2020. Our marketing and promotional activities may be subject to laws such as the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography And Marketing Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and the Telemarketing Sales Rule. Further, we may be or become subject to data localization laws mandating that data collected from a foreign country be processed and stored only within that country. For example, the Indian Parliament passed the Digital Personal Data Protection Act in 2023, which limits storage of certain personal data outside of India. Such data localization requirements may have cost implications for us, impact our ability to utilize the efficiencies and value of our global network, and affect our strategy. Further, if other countries in which we have customers were to adopt data localization laws, we could be required to expand our data storage facilities there or build new ones in order to comply with these laws. The expenditure this would require, as well as costs of ongoing compliance, could harm our financial condition. We are subject to payments-related risks that may result in higher operating costs or the inability to process payments, either of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Non-payment or late payments of amounts due to us by customers could significantly and negatively affect our business and financial performance. A portion of our customers typically purchase our products on payment terms, and therefore we assume a credit risk for non-payment in the ordinary course of business. We evaluate the credit-worthiness of new customers and perform ongoing financial condition evaluations of our existing customers; however, there can be no assurance that our allowances for uncollected accounts receivable balances will be sufficient. As of December 31, 2023, our allowance for doubtful accounts was $6.5 million. If the volume of sales to enterprise customers continues to grow, we expect to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts primarily as the result of changes in the volume of sales to customers who pay on payment terms. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit cards and debit cards, which are subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements and are susceptible to incidences of fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability, and rely on third parties to provide processing services, who may be unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. We may be required to provide cash deposits to our credit card processors. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or forced to cease our operations, fines and higher transaction fees or we could lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from consumers or facilitate other types of online payments. To date, we have experienced minimal losses from credit card fraud, but we continue to face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to, or voluntarily comply with, several other laws and regulations relating to money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security and electronic fund transfers. If we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or forced to cease our operations. 37 Table of Content We are, from time to time, subject to various litigation, the unfavorable outcomes of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. From time to time, we may become subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business or otherwise. For example, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot determine with certainty the ultimate outcome of any such litigation or proceedings. If the final resolution of any such litigation or proceedings is unfavorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock We qualify as an emerging growth company and smaller reporting company within the meaning of the Securities Act and Exchange Act, and we take advantage of certain exemptions from disclosure requirements available to emerging growth companies and smaller reporting companies, which could make our securities less attractive to investors and may make it more difficult to compare our performance to the performance of other public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and smaller reporting company under the Securities Act and Exchange Act. As such, we are eligible for and take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies and/or smaller reporting companies for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company and/or smaller reporting company, including, but not limited to, (a) not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (b) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and (c) exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of our Common Stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of June 30 of that fiscal year, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.235 billion or more during such fiscal year (as indexed for inflation), (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in the prior three-year period or (iv) December 31, 2027, which is the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of Class A common stock in connection with the Business Combination. We would cease to be a smaller reporting company if (i) the market value of our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates is more than $250 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter or (ii) our annual revenue is more than $100 million during the most recently completed fiscal year and the market value of our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates is more than $700 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter. We cannot predict whether investors will find our securities less attractive because we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our securities less attractive as a result of our reliance on these exemptions, the trading prices of our securities may be lower than they otherwise would be, there may be a less active trading market for our securities and the trading prices of our securities may be more volatile. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated significantly in response to numerous factors and may continue to fluctuate, causing our stockholders to lose all or part of their investment in our Class A common stock since they may sell their shares at or below the price for which they purchased such shares. The trading price of our Class A common stock depends on a number of factors, including those described in this Item 1A. Risk Factors section, many of which are beyond our control. The market prices of securities of companies have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to their operating results. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert managements attention and resources, and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our stock price may be exposed to additional risks because our business became a public company through a de-SPAC transaction. There has been increased focus by government agencies on de-SPAC transactions in the last year, and we expect that increased focus to continue, and we may be subject to increased scrutiny by the SEC and other government agencies and holders of our securities as a result, which could adversely affect the price of our Class A Common Stock. 38 Table of Content An active trading market for our Class A common stock may not be sustained. Our Class A common stock is listed on the NYSE under the symbol GETY and trades on that market. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our Class A common stock will be sustained. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of the liquidity of any trading market, your ability to sell your shares of our Class A common stock when desired or the prices that you may obtain for your shares. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. The sale of substantial amounts of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing market price of shares of our Class A Common Stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. If our existing stockholders sell or indicate an intention to sell substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. For example, as of March 1, 2024, the Getty Family Stockholders and Koch Icon Investments, LLC (Koch Icon) hold 47.2% and 19.9% of our Class A common stock, respectively. In addition, shares underlying any outstanding options and Restricted Stock Units will become eligible for sale if exercised or settled, as applicable, and to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements and Rule 144 of the Securities Act (Rule 144). All the shares of Class A common stock subject to stock options outstanding and reserved for issuance under its equity incentive plans were registered under the Securities Act and such shares are eligible for sale in the public markets, subject to Rule 144 limitations applicable to affiliates. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. As restrictions on resale have end and the registration statements are available for use, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline if the holders of currently restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our Class A common stock or other securities. If securities or industry analysts either do not publish research about us or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us, our business, or its market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our Class A common stock adversely, the trading price or trading volume of our Class A common stock could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock is influenced in part by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, its business, our market, or our competitors. If one or more of the analysts initiate research with an unfavorable rating or downgrade our Class A Common Stock, provide a more favorable recommendation about our competitors, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the trading price of our Class A common stock would likely decline. In addition, we currently expect that securities research analysts will establish and publish their own periodic projections for our business. These projections may vary widely and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our stock price may decline if our actual results do not match the projections of these securities research analysts. While we expect research analyst coverage, if no analysts commence or maintain coverage of us, the trading price and volume for our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the trading price or trading volume of our Class A common stock to decline. Delaware law and anti-takeover provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could make a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our Class A common stock by acting to discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of us or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions include the following: a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; the right of the board of directors to establish the number of directors and fill any vacancies and newly created directorships; director removal solely for cause; 39 Table of Content blank check preferred stock that our board of directors could use to implement a stockholder rights plan; the right of our board of directors to issue our authorized but unissued Class A common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; no ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; no right of our stockholders to act by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; limitations on the liability of, and the provision of indemnification to, our director and officers; the right of the board of directors to make, alter, or repeal our Amended and Restated Bylaws; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at annual stockholder meetings. In addition, we will continue to be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law. Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such person becomes an interested stockholder, unless the business combination or the transaction in which such person becomes an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. Generally, a business combination includes a merger, asset or stock sale, or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Generally, an interested stockholder is a person that, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years prior to the determination of interested stockholder status did own, 15% or more of a corporations voting stock. The existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors and the anti-takeover effect includes discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares of our Class A common stock. Any provision of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Amended and Restated Bylaws that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our Class A common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our Class A common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Amended and Restated Bylaws or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. These choice of forum provisions may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees and may discourage these types of lawsuits. This provision would not apply to claims brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides further that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the federal district courts of the United States will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. However, Section 22 of the Securities Act provides that federal and state courts have concurrent jurisdiction over lawsuits brought under the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. To the extent the exclusive forum provision restricts the courts in which claims arising under the Securities Act may be brought, there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce such a provision. We note that investors cannot waive compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. Furthermore, the enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that a court could find these types of provisions to be inapplicable or unenforceable. While the Delaware courts have determined that such choice of forum provisions are facially valid, a stockholder may nevertheless seek to bring a claim in a venue other than those designated in the exclusive forum provisions, and there can be no assurance that such provisions will be enforced by a court in those other jurisdictions. If a court were to find the exclusive-forum provision contained in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business. 40 Table of Content We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business and we do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, stockholders must rely on sales of their Class A common stock after price appreciation as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. We may issue additional shares of Class A common stock or other equity securities without your approval, which would dilute shareholder ownership interests and may depress the market price of our Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2023, we had outstanding options to purchase up to an aggregate of 27,790,625 shares of our Class A common stock, 8,735,236 outstanding Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and 963,000 outstanding Performance Stock Units (PSUs) outstanding. We also have the ability to initially issue up to 51,104,577 shares of Class A common stock under the 2022 Equity Incentive Plan, 5,000,000 shares of Class A common stock under the ESPP, 6,000,000 shares of Class A common stock under the Earn Out Plan (as defined below). We may issue additional shares of Class A common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank in the future in connection with, among other things, future acquisitions or repayment of outstanding indebtedness, without stockholder approval, in a number of circumstances. Our issuance of additional shares of Class A common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank would have the following effects: Our existing stockholders proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; the amount of cash available per share, including for payment of dividends (if any) in the future, may decrease; the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share of Class A common stock may be diminished; and the market price of our shares of Class A common stock may decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity The Companys management is responsible for the day-to-day management of risk, and our board of directors, including through its committees, is responsible for understanding and overseeing the various risks facing the Company. Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks pose an ongoing risk to the security of our information systems and networks. Getty Images seeks to manage cybersecurity risks consistent with its general approach to enterprise risk management. Getty Images engages third parties to conduct assessments to help it identify, categorize and manage cyber risks and to confirm compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Additionally, management and third parties conduct ongoing vulnerability scanning and performs penetration testing from time to time to help Getty Images identify and reduce the threat of known and emerging cybersecurity risks. Board Oversight and Governance Getty Images board of directors has delegated the oversight of cybersecurity risks to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee assists Getty Images board of directors in its oversight of the policies and practices used by Getty Images to identify, assess and manage key risks facing Getty Images, including cybersecurity risks. Members of management, including the Companys Chief Technology Officer (CTO), provide the Audit Committee with updates on cybersecurity and information technology matters. In turn, the Audit Committee and management also provide updates to Getty Images board of directors. In addition to reporting to the Audit Committee and Getty Images board of directors, the CTO provides periodic reports to our Chief Executive Officer and other members of our senior management as appropriate. The Audit Committee, or Getty Images board of directors, is notified of cybersecurity incidents, as appropriate, in accordance with the Companys incident response processes. Cybersecurity Oversight 41 Table of Content Management plays an important role in assessing and managing Getty Images material risks from cybersecurity threats. The CTO is responsible for oversight of the design and implementation of the security program and strategy. Getty Images current CTO has served in various roles in technology for over 25 years, and has had had oversight of information technology and information security for both Getty Images (6+ years) and other organizations. At the employee level, we maintain an experienced information technology team who is tasked with implementing our privacy and cybersecurity program and support the CTO in carrying out reporting, security, and mitigation functions. As part of the Getty Images cybersecurity program, cross-functional teams throughout the Company address cybersecurity threats and respond to cybersecurity incidents. Through ongoing communications with these teams, the CTO and senior management are informed about and monitor the prevention, detection, mitigation and remediation of cybersecurity threats and incidents and escalate such threats and incidents as appropriate through the processes described in more detail below. Managements cybersecurity risk management strategy and processes focus on several key areas, including: Incident Response Planning: Getty Images has a global Information Security Incident Response Plan (the Plan) for identifying and managing cyber and data security threats. The Plan defines the roles and responsibilities of Company stakeholders involved in responding to cyber and data security events, severity levels and incident categories, and it outlines a process for incident management, including escalation and communication procedures. A cross-functional working group of security, privacy, and legal personnel review significant incidents to determine if further escalation is appropriate. If an incident could be deemed material, it is escalated to the CTO and other members of the executive team, and we consult with outside counsel during this assessment as appropriate. Technical Safeguards: Getty Images seeks to continuously improve technical safeguards that are designed to protect its information systems. Standards include controls for identity and access management, cyber threat and incident management, data security, encryption, human resource security, network and device security, secure asset management, secure system development, security operations and third-party security. While Getty Images seeks to maintain adequate cybersecurity controls, it may not always be effective. See Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur failure to protect the proprietary information of our customers and our networks against cyberattacks, security breaches or unauthorized access could adversely affect our business and results of operations, damage our reputation and expose us to liability and We collect, store, process, transmit and use personal information, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations in many jurisdictions related to privacy, information security and data protection for more information as well as related risks. Education and Awareness: We require annual employee trainings on privacy and cybersecurity, records and information management, and generally seek to promote awareness of cybersecurity risk through communication and education of our employee population. Third-Party Risk Management: We rely on certain third-party computer systems and third-party service providers in connection with providing some of our services. We also depend upon various third parties to process payments for our transactions around the world. These third-party business partners, service providers, and consultants need to access our customer and other data and in some cases connect to our computer networks. We define expected security and privacy requirements through our contracting processes with third parties and we perform third-party cyber risk assessments to monitor the cyber risk management efforts of third parties as needed. Threat Intelligence: Our security teams engage in threat intelligence, predictive modeling, and penetration testing to understand the Company's threat landscape and reduce the risk and impact of cybersecurity incidents. Material Effects of Cybersecurity Incidents As of the date of this Annual Report, we have experienced cybersecurity incidents and threats, including malware, phishing, partner and customer account takeover attacks, and denial-of-service attacks on our systems. We do not believe these cybersecurity incidents have materially affected our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. However, there is no guarantee that a future cyber incident would not materially affect our business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. To learn more about risks from cybersecurity threats, review the risk factors included in Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report, as updated by Getty Images subsequent SEC filings. The risks described in such filings are not the only risks facing Getty Images. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that may currently be deemed to be immaterial may materially adversely affect Getty Images business, financial condition, or results of operations. 42 Table of Content Item 2. Properties. Our major U.S. offices are located in New York and Seattle, and our major offices in the rest of the world are located in London, Dublin, and Calgary. In all, as of December 31, 2023, we have staff in 33 countries across the globe. We lease these offices and all of our other office spaces around the world. For additional information regarding obligations under operating leases, see Note 19 Leases of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The Company was named as a defendant in two lawsuits filed by former warrant holders in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, Alta Partners, LLC v. Getty Images Holdings, Inc., Case No. 1:22-cv-08916 (filed October 19, 2022) and CRCM Institutional Master Fund (BVI) LTD et al. v. Getty Images Holdings, Inc., Case No. 1:23-cv-01074 (filed February 8, 2023). The plaintiffs generally allege breaches of the Warrant Agreement dated August 4, 2020 and alternative claims for violations of federal securities laws, including claims under the Securities Act of 1933 and/or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The complainants seek, among other things, an award of money damages. On October 27, 2023, the Court issued its decision on cross-motions for summary judgment filed by all parties and entered judgment in favor of the Plaintiffs on their breach of contract claims in the amount of $36.9 million for Alta Partners, LLC and $51.0 million for the CRCM plaintiffs, plus, in each case, pre-judgment interest of 9% per annum. The Court entered judgments in favor of the Company on all other claims asserted by the Plaintiffs. The Company has appealed that portion of the Courts judgment in favor of the Plaintiffs. Alta has cross appealed that portion of the Courts judgment in favor of the Company. Getty Images (US), Inc. is a plaintiff in a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Stability AI, Inc. The case, Getty Images (US), Inc. v. Stability AI, Inc., Case No. 1:23-cv-00135-GBW (filed February 3, 2023), arises out of the defendants alleged unauthorized reproduction of approximately 12 million images from Getty Images websites, along with the accompanying captions and associated metadata, and use of the copied content in connection with Stability AIs generative artificial intelligence model known as Stable Diffusion. Getty Images (US), Inc. has asserted claims for copyright infringement; removal, alteration and/or falsification of copyright management information; trademark infringement; unfair competition; trademark dilution; and deceptive trade practices. The Complaint seeks, among other things, monetary damages and injunctive relief. The defendant has not yet responded to the Complaint. On May 2, 2023, the defendants moved to dismiss or, in the alternative, to transfer the case to the Northern District of California. The defendants motion is premised on their contention that Stability AI, Ltd. is not subject to personal jurisdiction in Delaware. Getty Images served jurisdictional discovery requests on Defendants on May 12, 2023, and the parties agreed to extend Getty Images (US), Inc.s time to respond to the motion to dismiss while the parties engage in discovery relating to the defendants activities within Delaware and other states in the U.S. On January 26, 2024, the court dismissed the defendants motion to dismiss without prejudice with leave to re-file upon the completion of jurisdictional discovery. Arising out of similar alleged facts, Getty Images (US), Inc., Getty Images International U.C., Getty Images (UK) Limited, Getty Images Devco UK Limited and iStockphoto LP are Claimants in proceedings issued in the High Court of England & Wales against Stability AI Limited on January 16, 2023, claim number IL2023-000007, which, together with the Particulars of Claim (the Claimants statement of case) were served on the defendant on May 12, 2023. The Claimants assert claims for copyright infringement, infringement of database rights, trademark infringement, passing off and breach of the terms and conditions of the Claimants websites and seeks, amongst other things, monetary damages, injunctive relief and legal costs. In June 2023, Stability filed a motion to strike certain portions of the claim and grant summary judgment on Getty Images secondary infringement claim. The court conducted a hearing on the issues in October 2023. Following the hearing, the Judge issued an order denying Stabilitys motion in its entirety and granted costs to Getty Images. The order became final and public in late January 2024. Stability has requested an appeal against that decision. The case schedule has been set for the next stages of the litigation, including disclosures and any additional changes to the parties' claims or defense. A trial date has not yet been set. Although we cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation or the disposition of any claims, nor the amount of damages and exposure, if any, that we could incur, we currently believe that the final disposition of all existing matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Further, in the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to periodic threats of lawsuits, investigations and claims. Regardless of the 43 Table of Content outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 44 Table of Content PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our Class A common stock is currently listed on the NYSE under the symbol GETY. As of March 11, 2024, there were 405,870,456 shares of Class A common stock issued and outstanding held of record by 40 holders. Because many of our shares of Class A common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, this number is not indicative of the total number of stockholders represented by these stockholders of record. Dividends We have not paid any cash dividends on our Class A common stock to date. The payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent upon our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements and general financial condition. The payment of any cash dividends will be within the discretion of our Board at such time. In addition, we are not currently contemplating and do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends in the foreseeable future as it is currently expected that available cash resources will be utilized in connection with our ongoing operations. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities All sales of unregistered securities during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 have been previously reported in our filings with the SEC. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We did not acquire any shares of Class A common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2023. Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total return to stockholders from the closing price on July 25, 2022 (the date our Class A common stock began trading on the NYSE following the Business Combination) through December 31, 2023, relative to the performance of the Russell 2000 Index and the S&P Composite 1500 Interactive Media & Services Index. The stock performance graph assumes $100 was invested in our Class A common stock and the common stock of each of 45 Table of Content the companies listed on the Russell 2000 Index and the S&P Composite 1500 Interactive Media & Services Index on July 25, 2022. 7/25/2022 12/31/2022 6/30/2023 12/31/2023 Getty Images Holdings, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 60.56 $ 53.33 $ 57.38 Russell 2000 Index $ 100.00 $ 97.57 $ 105.44 $ 114.04 S&P Composite 1500 Interactive Media & Services Index $ 100.00 $ 80.49 $ 126.27 $ 149.55 Item 6. [Reserved] 46 Table of Content Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial and Results of Operations Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of Getty Images should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The discussion should also be read together with the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements above and the Item 1A Risk Factors disclosure above for additional discussion of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Business Overview and Recent Developments In 1995, Mark Getty and Jonathan Klein co-founded the predecessor to Getty Images, Inc. in London. In September 1997, Getty Communications, as it was called at the time, merged with PhotoDisc, Inc. to form Getty Images, Inc. Legacy Getty was incorporated in Delaware on September 25, 2012, and in October of the same year, indirectly acquired Getty Images, Inc. On July 22, 2022 (the Closing Date), the Company consummated the transactions in the Business Combination Agreement, dated December 9, 2021 (the Business Combination Agreement and the consummation of such transactions, the Closing), by and among CC Neuberger Principal Holdings II, a Cayman Islands exempted company (CCNB), the Company (at such time, named Vector Holding, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly-owned subsidiary of CCNB), Vector Domestication Merger Sub, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (Domestication Merger Sub), Vector Merger Sub 1, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of CCNB (G Merger Sub 1), Vector Merger Sub 2, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of CCNB (G Merger Sub 2), Griffey Global Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Legacy Getty), and Griffey Investors, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the Partnership). On the day prior to the Closing Date, the Company statutorily converted from a Delaware limited liability company to a Delaware corporation (the Statutory Conversion). On the Closing Date, CCNB merged with and into Domestication Merger Sub, with Domestication Merger Sub surviving the merger as a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of the Company (the Domestication Merger). Following the Domestication Merger on the Closing Date, G Merger Sub 1 merged with and into Legacy Getty, with Legacy Getty surviving the merger as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the First Getty Merger). Immediately after the First Getty Merger, Legacy Getty merged with and into G Merger Sub 2 with G Merger Sub 2 surviving the merger as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the Second Getty Merger and together with the First Getty Merger, the Getty Mergers and, together with the Statutory Conversion and the Domestication Merger, the Business Combination). Getty Images is a preeminent global visual content creator and marketplace. Through Getty Images, iStock, and Unsplash, we offer a full range of content solutions to meet the needs of any customerno matter their sizearound the globe, with over 562 million visual assets available through its industry-leading sites. New content and coverage is added daily, with over 10 million new assets added each quarter and over 2.8 billion searches annually. The Company has almost 800,000 purchasing customers, with customers from almost every country in the world and websites in 23 languages bringing the worlds best content to media outlets, advertising agencies and corporations of all sizes and, increasingly, to individual creators and prosumers. In support of its content, Getty Images employs over 110 staff photographers and videographers, distributes the content of over 557,000 contributors and more than 320 premium content partners. Over 80,000 of our contributors are exclusive to the Company, creating content that cannot be found anywhere else. Each year, we cover more than 160,000 global events across news, sport and entertainment, providing a depth and breadth of coverage that is unmatched. Getty Images also maintains one of the largest and best privately-owned photographic archives in the world with over 135 million images across geographies, time periods and verticals. Through our content and coverage, Getty Images moves the world whether the goal is commercial or philanthropic, revenue-generating or society-changing, market-disrupting or headline-driving. Through our staff, our exclusive contributors and partners, and our expertise, data and research, Getty Images content grabs attention, sheds light, represents communities and reminds us of our history. 47 Table of Content We offer comprehensive content solutions including a la carte (ALC) and subscription access to our pre- shot content and coverage, custom content and coverage solutions, generative AI-services, digital asset management tools, data insights, research, and print offerings. For 29 years, Getty Images has embraced innovation; from analogue to digital, from offline to e-commerce, from stills to video, from single image purchasing to subscriptions, from websites to application programming interfaces (APIs), from pre-shot content to AI generated content designed to be commercially safe. With quality content at the core of our offerings, we embrace innovation as a means to better service our existing customers and to reach new ones. Creative Creative is comprised of royalty free (RF) photos, illustrations, vectors, videos, and generative AI-services, that are released for commercial use and cover a wide variety of commercial, conceptual and contemporary subjects, including lifestyle, business, science, health, wellness, beauty, sports, transportation and travel. This content is available for immediate use by a wide range of customers with a depth, breadth and quality allowing our customers to produce impactful websites, digital media, social media, marketing campaigns, corporate collateral, textbooks, movies, television and online video content relevant to their target geographies and audiences. We primarily source Creative content from a broad network of professional, semi-professional and amateur creators, many of whom are exclusive to Getty Images. We have a global creative insights team dedicated to providing briefing and art direction to our exclusive contributor community. Creative represents 63.1%, 63.2% and 65.0% of our revenue of which 53.3%, 47.4% and 41.8% is generated through our annual subscription products, for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Annual Subscription products include products and subscriptions with a duration of 12 months or longer, Unsplash API and Custom Content. Editorial Editorial is comprised of photos and videos covering the world of entertainment, sports and news. We combine contemporary coverage of events around the globe with one of the largest privately held archives globally with access to images to the beginning of photography. We invest in a dedicated editorial team which includes over 110 staff photographers and videographers to generate our own coverage in addition to coverage from our network of content partners. Editorial represents 35.0%, 35.2% and 33.4% of our revenue, of which 53.3%, 52.1% and 53.5% is generated through our annual subscription products, for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Annual Subscription products include subscriptions with a duration of 12 months or longer. Other Other represents 1.9%, 1.6%, and 1.6% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. This includes music licensing, digital asset management and distribution services, print sales and data licensing. We service a full range of customers through our industry-leading brands and websites: Getty Images Gettyimages.com offers premium creative content and editorial coverage, including video, with exclusive content, and customizable rights and protections. This site primarily serves larger enterprise agency, media and corporate customers with global customer support from our sales and service teams. Customers can purchase on an ALC basis or through our content subscriptions, including our Premium Access subscription, where we uniquely offer frictionless access across all of our content in one solution. iStock iStock.com is our budget-conscious e-commerce offering our customers access to creative stills and video, which includes exclusive content. This site primarily serves SMBs, including the growing freelance market. Customers can purchase on an ALC basis or through a range of monthly and annual subscription options with access to an extensive amount of unique and exclusive content. 48 Table of Content Unsplash Unsplash.com is a platform offering free stock photo downloads and paid subscriptions targeted to the high-growth prosumer and semi-professional creator segments. The Unsplash website reaches a significant and geographically diverse audience with more than 103 million image downloads every month. On October 4, 2022, Unsplash launched Unsplash+, an unlimited paid subscription providing access to unique model released content with expanded legal protections. *** In addition to our websites, customers and partners can access and integrate our content, metadata and search capabilities via our APIs and through a range of mobile apps and plugins. We are a critical intermediary between content suppliers and a broad set of customers. We compete against a broad range of stock licensing marketplaces, editorial news agencies, creative agencies, production companies, staff and freelance photographers and videographers, photo and video archives, freelance marketplaces and amateur content creators, creative tools and services and free sources. Getty Images unique offering and approach offers a strong value proposition to our customers and content contributors. For customers: We offer a comprehensive suite of high quality, authentic content, purchase and licensing options and services to meet the needs of our customers, regardless of project requirements, needs or budgets. Our content sourcing and production, rights oversight, websites and content distribution are all supported by a unique, scalable cloud-based unified platform with powerful artificial intelligence/machine learning and data addressing all customers at scale. Customers have access to Generative AI by Getty Images and iStock which is designed to be a commercially-safe and responsible solution designed to help embrace AI, elevate creativity, and ideate or iterate on concepts and compositions. Customers can avoid the costly investment and environmental impact of producing content on their own. This can include costs incurred from staffing, travel and access, model and location, hardware and production, and editing. Customers do not have to wait for content to be produced and distributed and can avoid the difficulties and pitfalls of searching across the internet to locate and negotiate for rights to license or use specific content. Our best-in-class, scaled infrastructure offers customers a one-stop shop for instant content access and maneuverability. Customers licensing from Getty Images and iStock receive trusted copyright claim protections, model and property releases and the ability to secure the necessary clearances for their intended use of the content. For content contributors: Access to a marketplace that reaches almost every country in the world, across all customer categories and sizes and generated annual royalties of nearly $220 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. We maintain a dedicated and experienced creative insights team focused on understanding changes in customer demand, the visual landscape, the authentic portrayal of communities and cultures, and the evolution of core creative concepts. We work closely with leading organizations to augment our proprietary research and understanding of communities and cultures to provide content with authentic depiction. We convey this research to our exclusive contributors via actionable insights allowing them to invest in and create content that accurately caters to changing consumer demand and up to date market trends. Not only do we provide exclusive contributors with scaled access to end markets and proprietary information, but we also provide premium royalty rates. This allows our exclusive contributors and partners to confidently invest more into their productions with the potential to generate higher returns. Partnering with Getty Images allows contributors to focus on content creation and avoid time and financial investment in the marketing, sales, distribution and management of their content. Our Generative AI by Getty Images and iStock products compensates our world-class content creators for the use of their work in our AI models, allowing them to continue to create more high-quality pre-shot imagery. Russia and Ukraine Conflict Getty Images does not maintain a direct business or employee presence within Russia or Ukraine. Our in-country presence is limited to our editorial staff covering the conflict and broader consequences. Revenues generated through e-commerce 49 Table of Content and third-party licensing of our content within Russia and Ukraine represent less than 1% of our business. We do work with creative contributors within Ukraine and Russia, of which, the majority are non-exclusive to Getty Images. We continue to license their content and are complying with all sanctions and trade rules. Closing of the Business Combination In connection with the Business Combination, on the Closing Date, Getty Images issued, (a) an aggregate of 66,000,000 shares of Class A common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of $660.0 million and (b) 20,000,000 shares of Class A common stock and 3,750,000 Forward Purchase Warrants (as defined in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report) for an aggregate purchase price of $200 million. The foregoing transactions resulted in aggregate gross proceeds to the Company of approximately $864.2 million, which included approximately $4.2 million remaining in the trust account. The Company used the proceeds, in addition to cash on hand, to repay a portion of its outstanding indebtedness and retire the Redeemable Preferred Stock of Legacy Getty. Each option to purchase shares of common stock of Legacy Getty (whether vested or unvested) was converted into a comparable option to purchase shares of Class A common stock of Getty Images. See also Note 5 Common Stock Warrants and Note 16 Stockholders Equity (Deficit) in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for information on additional transactions related to the Business Combination. Key Performance Indicators (KPI) The Key Performance Indicators outlined below are the metrics that provide management with the most immediate understanding of the drivers of business performance and our ability to deliver shareholder return, track to financial targets and prioritize customer satisfaction. Note, KPI comparisons to periods prior to the year ended December 31, 2022 reflect some COVID-19 impact. Beginning with the three months ended September 30, 2022, the Company made two changes to its reporting that has some impact on reported KPIs. First, activity for LATAM, Turkey and Israel, which was previously excluded from these metrics, is now included due to completion of a system migration. Additionally, the method by which we aggregate our customer accounts was updated to better align with our internal sales CRM system. We have not restated historical periods given the immaterial impact to the KPIs, except for LTM total active annual subscribers and LTM annual subscriber revenue retention rate for which the legacy reporting format is detailed below. Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 LTM total purchasing customers (thousands)1 799 835 794 LTM total active annual subscribers (thousands)1 236 129 75 LTM paid download volume (millions)1,2 95 95 89 LTM annual subscriber revenue retention rate 92.4 % 100.1 % 104.5 % Image collection (millions)1 535 497 458 Video collection (millions) 28 24 20 LTM video attachment rate1 14.1 % 13.1 % 12.1 % ____________________ 1The Company launched Unsplash+ during the three months ended December 31, 2022. This new Unsplash subscription is included within these KPIs from the launch date forward. 2Excludes downloads from Editorial Subscriptions, Editorial feeds and certain API structured deals, including bulk unlimited deals. Excludes downloads starting in Q322 tied to a two-year deal signed with Amazon in July 2022, as the magnitude of the potential download volume over the deal term could result in significant fluctuations in this metric without corresponding impact to revenue in the same period. Total purchasing customers is the count of total customers who made a purchase within the reporting period based on billed revenue. This metric provides management and investors with an understanding of both how we are growing our purchasing customer base and combined with revenue, an understanding of our average revenue per purchasing customer. This metric differs from total customers, which is a count of all downloading customers, irrespective of whether they made a purchase in the period. This decrease is tied to both our continued shift into subscription products and continued contraction in our agency customers who consume nearly entirely on an a la carte or transactional basis. 50 Table of Content Total active annual subscribers is the count of customers who were on an annual subscription product during the LTM reporting period. This metric provides management and investors with visibility into the rate at which we are growing our annual subscriber base and is highly correlated to the percentage of our revenue that comes from annual subscription products. Growth in annual subscribers reflects the Companys deliberate focus on expanding its subscription offerings for customers to provide comprehensive content solutions across all price points. The increase of approximately 83% over the corresponding period in 2022 was driven primarily by our e-commerce subscriptions, including our iStock and Unsplash+ subscriptions. Absent the reporting changes noted above, LTM total active annual subscribers under legacy reporting would have been 212 thousand and 116 thousand for December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Paid download volume is a count of the number of paid downloads by our customers in the reported period. This metric informs both management and investors about the volumes at which customers are engaging with our content over time. Paid download volume was flat in the LTM ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the LTM ended December 31, 2022, but up compared to the LTM ended December 31, 2021. The steady demand in paid download volumes during a year with a myriad of macro-economic challenges, is a strong outcome and signals that our content continues to meet our customers evolving needs. Annual subscriber revenue retention rate calculates retention of total revenue for customers on annual subscription products, comparing the customers total booked revenue (inclusive of spend for both annual subscription and non-annual subscription products) in the LTM period to the prior twelve month period. For example, LTM annual subscriber booked revenue (the amount of revenue invoiced to customers) for the period ended December 31, 2023 was 92.4% of revenue from these customers in the period ended December 31, 2022. Revenue retention rate informs management and investors on the degree to which we are maintaining or growing revenue from our annual subscriber base. As we continue to focus on growing subscriptions as percentage of total revenue, revenue retention for these customers is a key driver of the predictability of our financial model with respect to revenue. LTM annual subscriber revenue retention rate decreased for the period ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the period ended December 31, 2022. The decline was primarily driven by lower revenue retention rates on some of our smaller e-commerce subscription customers. Absent the reporting changes noted above, LTM annual subscriber retention rate under legacy reporting would have been 90.7% and 99.2% for December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Image and Video collection is a count of the total images and videos in our content library as of the reporting date. Management and investors can view growth in the size, both depth and breadth, of the content library as an indication of our ability to continue to expand our content offering with premium, high quality, contemporary content to meet the evolving needs of our customers. Image and video collections increased during the period ending December 31, 2023 as compared to the periods ending December 31, 2022 and 2021. Video attachment rate is a measure of the percentage of total paid customer downloaders who are video downloaders. Customer demand for video content continues to grow and represents a significant opportunity for revenue growth for Getty Images. The video attachment rate provides management and investors with an indication of our customers level of engagement with our video content offering. Our expansion of video across our subscription products is focused on further increasing the attachment rate over time. The increase in video attachment rates from the LTM periods ending December 31, 2022 and 2021 to the period ending December 31, 2023 reflects increased customer awareness of our video offering, improved search and site prominence for video content, and upselling of video into subscriptions. Executive summary Revenue We generate revenue by licensing content to customers through multiple license models and purchase options, as well as by providing related services to our customers. The key image licensing model in the pre-shot market is RF. Content licensed on a RF basis is subject to a standard set of terms, allowing the customer to use the image for an unlimited duration and without limitation on the use or application. Within our video offering, we also offer a licensing model known as Rights-Ready. The Rights-Ready model offers a limited selection of broader usage categories, thus simplifying the purchase process. In September 2023 and January 2024, we launched Generative AI by Getty Images and Generative AI by iStock, respectively. They are generative AI text to image tools that were trained exclusively on Getty Images worldclass creative content and designed for commercial use. Customers that download visuals through the tool will receive the standard royaltyfree license. 51 Table of Content In addition to licensing imagery and video, we also generate revenue from custom content solutions, photo and video assignments, music content in some of our subscriptions, print sales, data licensing and licensing our digital asset management systems to help customers manage their owned and licensed digital content. References to reported revenue in this discussion and analysis are to our revenue as reported in our historical audited consolidated financial statements for the relevant periods and reflect the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. References to currency neutral (Currency Neutral or CN) revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) in this section refer to our revenue growth (expressed as a percentage), excluding the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information regarding Currency Neutral revenue growth (expressed as a percentage). Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) The ownership rights to the majority of the content we license are retained by the owners, and licensing rights are provided to us by a large network of content contributors and content partners. When we license content entrusted to us by content suppliers, we pay royalties to them at varying rates depending on the license model and the use of that content that our customers select. Suppliers who choose to work with us under contract typically receive royalties of 20% to 50% of the total license fee we charge customers, depending on the basis on which their content is licensed by our customers. Contributors will be compensated on an annual recurring basis for any inclusion of their content in AI data training sets and, in certain cases, share in the revenue generated by AI tools and services trained with their content. We also own the copyright to certain content in our collections (wholly-owned content), including content produced by our staff photographers for our editorial product, for which we do not pay any third-party royalties. Cost of revenue includes certain costs of our assignment photo shoots, but excludes amortization associated with creating or buying content. Cost of revenue consists primarily of royalties owed to content contributors, comprised of photographers, filmmakers, third-party companies that license their collection of content through us (Content Partners) and third party music content providers. We expect our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue to vary modestly based on changes in revenue mix by product, as royalty rates vary depending on license model and use of content. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) primarily consists of staff costs, marketing expense, occupancy costs, professional fees and other general operating charges. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars but remain relatively constant as a percentage of revenue in the near term. Absolute dollar spending will increase as we continue to expand our operations and invest in our growth. Lastly, we expect our marketing to stay relatively constant as a percentage of revenue. However, the Company will continue to evaluate opportunities to incrementally invest in marketing as may be appropriate. Depreciation Depreciation expense consists of internally developed software, content and equipment depreciation. We record property and equipment at cost and reflect Balance Sheet balances net of accumulated depreciation. We record depreciation expense on a straight-line basis. We depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter of the respective lives of the leases or the useful lives of the improvements. We expect depreciation expense to remain stable as we continue to innovate and invest in the design, user experience and performance of our websites. Amortization Amortization expense consists of the amortization of intangible assets related to acquired customer relationships, trademarks and other intangible assets. The majority of our intangible assets have been fully amortized as of December 31, 2023. We expect amortization expense to be insignificant in the coming years. Factors affecting results of operations A shift in the product mix of our revenue may affect our overall cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue. Our revenues and profitability are also subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The weakening or strengthening of our reporting 52 Table of Content currency, the U.S. dollar, during any given period as compared to currencies that we collect revenues in, most notably, the Euro and British pound, impacts our reported revenues. Our future financial condition and results of operation will also be dependent upon various factors that generally affect the digital content industry, including the general trends affecting the media, marketing and advertising customer bases that we target, protection of intellectual property, and new and expanding technology such as generative artificial intelligence technologies. In addition, our financial condition and results of operation will continue to be affected by factors that affect internet commerce companies and by general macroeconomic factors such as the global uncertainty caused by, among other things, any lingering effects of the Hollywood actors and writers strike and COVID-19 pandemic, the military conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East, high interest rates, currency fluctuations, high inflation and labor shortages. Results of Operations Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 Consolidated statements of operations (In thousands) Years Ended December 31, increase (decrease) 2023 2022 $ change % change REVENUE $ 916,555 $ 926,244 $ (9,689) (1.0) % OPERATING EXPENSE: Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 250,249 254,990 (4,741) (1.9) % Selling, general and administrative expenses 402,516 375,582 26,934 7.2 % Depreciation 54,374 49,574 4,800 9.7 % Amortization 24,069 43,645 (19,576) (44.9) % Loss on litigation 116,051 1,101 114,950 NM Recovery of loss on litigation (60,000) (60,000) NM Other operating expense (income) net 1,624 (681) 2,305 NM Operating expense 788,883 724,211 64,672 8.9 % INCOME FROM OPERATIONS 127,672 202,033 (74,361) (36.8) % OTHER EXPENSE, NET: Interest expense (126,884) (117,229) (9,655) 8.2 % (Loss) gain on fair value adjustment for swaps and foreign currency exchange contract net (7,573) 23,508 (31,081) NM Unrealized foreign exchange (losses) gain net (23,772) 24,643 (48,415) NM Loss on extinguishment of debt (2,693) 2,693 NM Net loss on fair value adjustment for warrant liabilities (160,728) 160,728 NM Other non-operating income (expense) net 3,652 (3,051) 6,703 NM Total other expense net (154,577) (235,550) 80,973 (34.4) % LOSS BEFORE INCOME TAXES (26,905) (33,517) 6,612 (19.7) % INCOME TAX BENEFIT (EXPENSE) 46,482 (44,126) 90,608 NM NET INCOME (LOSS) $ 19,577 $ (77,643) $ 97,220 NM ____________________ NM - Not meaningful 53 Table of Content Revenue by product (In thousands) Years Ended December 31, increase / (decrease) 2023 % of revenue 2022 % of revenue $ change % change CN % change Creative 578,727 63.1 % 585,398 63.2 % (6,671) (1.1) % (0.6) % Editorial 320,643 35.0 % 325,779 35.2 % (5,136) (1.6) % (1.2) % Other 17,185 1.9 % 15,067 1.6 % 2,118 14.1 % 14.9 % Total revenue $ 916,555 100.0 % $ 926,244 100.0 % $ (9,689) (1.0) % (0.5) % Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Consolidated Revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2023, reported revenue was $916.6 million as compared to reported revenue of $926.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. On a reported basis for the year ended December 31, 2023, revenue decreased by 1.0% (0.5% CN) year over year. Foreign exchange movements negatively impacted reported revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2023 by 50 basis points, largely driven by the strengthening dollar relative to the EUR and GBP. Additionally, starting in Q2 2023, the Hollywood actors and writers strikes negatively impacted both our Creative and Editorial product lines. Creative. In Creative, revenue decreased on a reported basis 1.1% (0.6% CN) for the year ended December 31, 2023. At the product level, decreases for the year included Getty Images Stills and Video (decreased $23.8 million) and iStock monthly subscriptions and ALC credit sales (decreased $11.3 million), which was in part due to our continued focus on driving customers to our committed solutions. Offsetting increases were led by our iStock annual subscriptions (increased $12.1 million) and Getty Images annual subscriptions (increased $17.2 million). Without the declines of our agency business, which sits entirely in Creative, the Creative business is growing. Editorial. In Editorial, revenue decreased on a reported basis 1.6% (1.2% CN) for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease was driven by editorial ALC (decreased $9.8 million), which is partially due to our continued focus on driving customers to our committed solutions. Also, comparative results were impacted by the US political midterm elections, Mens World Cup and Winter Olympics all occurring in the prior year. Offsetting increases were seen across both assignments (increased by $3.4 million) and editorial subscriptions (increased $1.3 million). Other. This category includes music licensing, digital asset management and distribution services, print sales, and data licensing revenues. Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023 from our Other products increased on a reported basis by 14.1% (14.9% CN). The increase was driven by music licensing (increase of $1.2 million), digital asset management and distribution services (increase of $0.9 million) and data licensing (increase of $0.7 million), partially offset by print sales (decreased by $0.8 million). Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization). Cost of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $250.2 million (27.3% of revenue) compared to $255.0 million (27.5% of revenue) in the prior year. The decrease in cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue compared to the prior year was due primarily to revenue mix by product. Generally, cost of revenue rates vary modestly period over period based on changes in revenue mix by product, as royalty rates vary depending on the license model and use of content. Selling, general and administrative expense. Reported SG&A expense increased by $26.9 million or 7.2% (7.5% CN) for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. SG&A fluctuations from the prior period include the following: increase of $31.2 million related to staff costs for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was largely driven by equity-based compensation (increased $28.4 million), resulting primarily from grants of restricted stock units. increase in professional fees of $5.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was primarily related to legal fees associated with ongoing litigation related to our intellectual property rights. Beginning in the third quarter of 2023, the Company reclassified historical legal fees associated with our warrant litigation from Selling, general and administrative expenses to Loss on litigation within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As a result, for the six months ended June 30, 2023, $6.4 million has been reclassified to Loss on litigation and for the year ended December 31, 2022, $1.1 million has been reclassified to Loss on litigation. 54 Table of Content decrease in marketing spend of 13.1% ($7.3 million) for the year ended December 31, 2023. For the year ended December 31, 2023, marketing spend as a percentage of sales decreased to 5.3% from the year ended December 31, 2022 ratio of 6.0%. The decrease was due primarily to decreased investment in digital marketing. decrease of $2.0 million related to occupancy costs (primarily rent expense), as we continue to evaluate our office space needs now and into the future. Depreciation expense. For the year ended December 31, 2023, depreciation expense was $54.4 million which was in line with the prior year. Amortization expense. For the year ended December 31, 2023, amortization expense was $24.1 million which was a decrease of $19.6 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was due to several of our intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the fourth quarter of 2022. Loss on litigation. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Companys loss on litigation of $116.1 million was comprised of the summary judgment amounts related to two lawsuits filed by former public warrant holders, in addition to pre and post judgment interest and associated legal fees and other direct costs through December 31, 2023. Loss on Litigation will increase in the future to the extent we continue to incur costs associated with this litigation. Recovery of loss on litigation. The Company has recognized recovery of loss on litigation of $60.0 million, which represents the limit of the Companys third-party insurance coverage related to the lawsuits filed by former public warrant holders. Other operating (income) expense - net. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the increase in other operating expense, net from the prior year was $2.3 million. This increase in net expense was due to the prior year change in fair value of the Contingent Consideration related to our Unsplash acquisition. For further details, see Note 7 Fair Value of Financial Instruments in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Additionally, the prior year income from the change in fair value of Contingent Consideration was partially offset by expenses associated with the abandonment of some of our office space in North America as we continue to evaluate our global office space needs. We recognized insignificant amounts of other operating expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2023. Interest expense. We recognized interest expense of $126.9 million and $117.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Our interest expense primarily consists of interest charges on our outstanding U.S. dollar and Euro term loans (the Term Loans), $300.0 million of Senior Unsecured Notes (the Senior Notes), and our revolving credit facility as well as the amortization of original issue discount on our Term Loans and amortization of deferred debt financing fees. The increase in interest expense was due to the rise in interest rates in 2023 as compared to 2022. The increase was partially offset by the Company voluntarily prepaying a total of $50.4 million of outstanding indebtedness in 2023. Fair value adjustment for swaps and foreign currency exchange contract - net. We recognized fair value adjustment loss for our swaps and foreign currency exchange contracts, net of $7.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared with net gains of $23.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Gains and losses are driven by changes in interest and foreign exchange rates, relative to the rates in our derivatives. Unrealized foreign exchange gains - net. We recognized foreign exchange losses, net of $23.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared with gains of $24.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. These changes are primarily driven by fluctuations in the EUR related to our EUR Term Loans. Loss on extinguishment of debt. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company utilized proceeds from the Business Combination along with cash on hand to repay $300.0 million of outstanding indebtedness on its USD Term Loans. The loss on debt extinguishment represents the acceleration of the issuance costs and debt discount. There were no such costs in the current year. Net loss on fair value adjustment of warrant liabilities. For the year ended December 31, 2022, there was a loss on fair value of our warrant liability of $160.7 million. There was no such warrant liability in the current year. Other non-operating income (expense) - net. We recognized other non-operating income, net of $3.7 million and expense of $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the income primarily related to interest income from our cash and cash equivalents. For the year ended 55 Table of Content December 31, 2022, the expense relates to the transaction costs that were allocated to the fair value of the warrant liability, which were expensed upon the Closing of the Business Combination. Income tax expense. The Companys income tax expense decreased by $90.6 million to a benefit of ($46.5) million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to an expense of $44.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The Companys effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2023 is 172.8%, compared to (131.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in tax expense compared to the prior year is primarily due to the release of the Ireland valuation allowance and a release of uncertain tax position reserves in current year. Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 Consolidated statements of operations (In thousands) Years Ended December 31, increase (decrease) 2022 2021 $ change % change REVENUE $ 926,244 $ 918,688 $ 7,556 0.8 % OPERATING EXPENSE: Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 254,990 248,152 6,838 2.8 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 375,582 367,704 7,878 2.1 % Depreciation 49,574 51,099 (1,525) (3.0) % Amortization 43,645 49,361 (5,716) (11.6) % Loss on litigation 1,101 1,101 NM Other operating expense (income) net (681) 386 (1,067) NM Operating expense 724,211 716,702 7,509 1.0 % INCOME FROM OPERATIONS 202,033 201,986 47 OTHER EXPENSE, NET: Interest expense (117,229) (122,160) 4,931 (4.0) % (Loss) gain on fair value adjustment for swaps and foreign currency exchange contract net 23,508 19,282 4,226 21.9 % Unrealized foreign exchange (losses) gain net 24,643 36,406 (11,763) (32.3) % Loss on extinguishment of debt (2,693) (2,693) NM Net loss on fair value adjustment for warrant liabilities (160,728) (160,728) NM Other non-operating income (expense) net (3,051) 612 (3,663) NM Total other expense net (235,550) (65,860) (169,690) 257.7 % (LOSS) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES (33,517) 136,126 (169,643) NM INCOME TAX BENEFIT (EXPENSE) (44,126) (18,729) (25,397) 135.6 % NET INCOME (LOSS) $ (77,643) $ 117,397 $ (195,040) NM ____________________ NM - Not meaningful 56 Table of Content Revenue by product (In thousands) Year ended December 31, increase / (decrease) 2022 % of revenue 2021 % of revenue $ change % change CN % change Creative 585,398 63.2 % 596,913 65.0 % (11,515) (1.9) % 2.7 % Editorial 325,779 35.2 % 306,635 33.4 % 19,144 6.2 % 11.5 % Other 15,067 1.6 % 15,140 1.6 % (73) (0.5) % 4.1 % Total revenue $ 926,244 100.0 % $ 918,688 100.0 % $ 7,556 0.8 % 5.7 % Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Consolidated Revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2022, reported revenue was $926.2 million as compared to reported revenue of $918.7 million for the year December 31, 2021. On a reported basis for the year ended December 31, 2022 revenue increased by 0.8% (5.7% CN) year over year. Foreign exchange movements negatively impacted reported revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2022 by 490 basis points, largely driven by the strengthening dollar relative to the EUR and GBP. Creative. In Creative, revenue decreased on a reported basis 1.9% (increased 2.7% CN) for the year ended December 31, 2022. At the product level, decreases for the year ended December 31, 2022 was driven largely by our Premium Royalty Free ALC product (decreased $21.8 million), which was largely due to our continued focus on driving customers to our committed solutions. This decrease was partially offset by our Premium Access subscription product, which showed growth compared to the prior year (increased $9.0 million). Absent the currency impact, the annual subscriptions grew across all product offerings with additional growth from Unsplash, more than offsetting the declines within our ALC products. Editorial. In Editorial, revenue increased on a reported basis 6.2% (11.5% CN) for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was seen across assignments (increased $11.2 million), our editorial subscription and Premium Access offerings (increased $5.7 million) and ALC (increased $2.2 million). These increases were primarily driven by Entertainment (from the COVID-19 recovery we have seen since 2021) and Sport (which has grown beyond the pre-COVID periods and has performed at historically high levels during the period). Other. This category includes music licensing, digital asset management and distribution services, print sales, and data licensing revenues. Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 from our Other products decreased on a reported basis by 0.5% (increased 4.1% CN). The decrease was driven by print sales (decreased $1.2 million); which was partially offset by music licensing (increased $0.8 million) and digital asset management and distribution services (increased $0.4 million). Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization). Cost of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $255.0 million (27.5% of revenue) compared to $248.2 million (27.0% of revenue) in the prior year. The increase in cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue compared to the prior year was due primarily to revenue mix by product. Generally, cost of revenue rates vary modestly period over period based on changes in revenue mix by product, as royalty rates vary depending on the license model and use of content. Selling, general and administrative expense. Reported SG&A expense increased by $7.9 million or 2.1% (5.4% CN) for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. SG&A fluctuations from the prior period include the following: increase in computer related expenses of $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was due primarily to our continued growth and related cloud storage needs. increase in professional fees of $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was largely due to fees associated with our public company readiness efforts. Beginning in the third quarter of 2023, the Company reclassified historical legal fees associated with our warrant litigation from Selling, general and administrative expenses to Loss on litigation within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As a result, for the three months ended December 31, 2022, $1.1 million has been reclassified to Loss on litigation. increase in marketing spend of 3.9% ($2.1 million) for the year ended December 31, 2022. For the year ended December 31, 2022, marketing spend as a percentage of sales increased to 6.0% from the year ended December 31, 2021 ratio of 5.8%. These increases were due primarily to increased investment in affiliate and digital marketing. 57 Table of Content increases were also seen in insurance expense ($1.7 million), other taxes ($0.7 million) and travel and entertainment ($1.5 million). decrease of $2.2 million related to staff costs for the year ended December 31, 2022 The decrease was largely due to a reduction in bonus expense tied to company performance, which was partially offset by an increase in salaries and wages, driven by our annual raise cycle and increased headcount. decrease of $1.8 million related to occupancy costs (primarily rent expense), as we continue to evaluate our office space needs now and into the future. Depreciation expense. For the year ended December 31, 2022, depreciation expense was $49.6 million which was in line with the prior year. Amortization expense. For the year ended December 31, 2022, amortization expense was $43.6 million which was a decrease of $5.7 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was due to several of our intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the fourth quarter of 2022. Loss on litigation. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Companys loss on litigation of $1.1 million was comprised of legal fees related to two lawsuits by former public warrant holders. Other operating (income) expense - net. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the decrease in other operating expense, net from the prior period was $1.1 million. This decrease in expense was driven by the change in fair value of the Contingent Consideration related to our Unsplash acquisition. For further details, see Note 7 Fair Value of Financial Instruments in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Additionally, this change was partially offset by expenses associated with the abandonment of some of our office space in North America as we continue to evaluate our global office space needs. Interest expense. We recognized interest expense of $117.2 million and $122.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. Our interest expense primarily consists of interest charges on our outstanding Term Loans, Senior Notes, and our revolving credit facility as well as the amortization of original issue discount on our term loans and amortization of deferred debt financing fees. The Company repaid $300.0 million of outstanding indebtedness in Q3 2022, which decreased our interest expense for the remainder of 2022 as compared to 2021. This decrease was partially offset by the rise in interest rates during 2022. Fair value adjustment for swaps and foreign currency exchange contract - net. We recognized fair value adjustment gains for our swaps and foreign currency exchange contracts, net of $23.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared with net gains of $19.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Gains and losses are driven by changes in interest and foreign exchange rates, relative to the rates in our derivatives. Unrealized Foreign exchange gains - net. We recognized foreign exchange gains, net of $24.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared with gains of $36.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. These changes are primarily driven by fluctuations in the EUR related to our EUR Term Loans. Loss on extinguishment of debt. The Company utilized proceeds from the Business Combination along with cash on hand to repay $300.0 million of outstanding indebtedness on its USD Term Loans. The loss on debt extinguishment represents the acceleration of the issuance costs and debt discount. Net loss on fair value adjustment for warrant liabilities. For the year ended December 31, 2022, there was a loss on fair value of our warrant liability of $160.7 million. There was no such warrant liability in the prior year. Other non-operating (expense) income - net. We recognized other non-operating expense, net of $3.1 million and other non-operating income, net of $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. The increase in expense from the prior year period relates to the transaction costs that were allocated to the fair value of the warrant liability, which were expensed upon the Closing of the Business Combination. Income tax expense. The Companys income tax expense increased by $25.4 million to an expense of $44.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to an expense of $18.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The Companys effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2022 is (131.7%), compared to 13.8% for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in tax expense compared to the prior year is primarily due to changes in 58 Table of Content nondeductible net loss on fair value adjustment for warrant liabilities in the current year, nondeductible officer compensation, and a release of uncertain tax position reserves in 2021. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we believe the non-GAAP measures of Currency Neutral (CN) revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) and Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (EBITDA) are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance and assists in comparisons with other companies, some of which use similar non-GAAP information to supplement their GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, and should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures. Currency Neutral Revenue Currency Neutral revenue changes (expressed as a percentage) excludes the impact of fluctuating foreign currency values pegged to the U.S. dollar between comparative periods by translating all local currencies using the current period exchange rates. We consistently apply this approach to revenue for all countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. We believe that this presentation provides useful supplemental information regarding changes in our revenue not driven by fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies. Adjusted EBITDA A reconciliation is provided below to the most comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. We define Adjusted EBITDA Margin as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to revenue. (in thousands) Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Net income (loss) $ 19,577 $ (77,643) $ 117,397 Add/(less) non-GAAP adjustments: Depreciation and amortization 78,443 93,219 100,460 Loss on litigation, net of recovery 1 56,051 1,101 Other operating expense (income) net 1,624 (681) 386 Interest expense 126,884 117,229 122,160 Fair value adjustments, foreign exchange and other non operating (expense) income net2 27,693 (45,100) (56,300) Loss on extinguishment of debt 2,693 Loss on fair value adjustment for warrant liabilities net 160,728 Income tax expense (46,482) 44,126 18,729 Equity-based compensation expense 37,652 9,292 6,441 Adjusted EBITDA $ 301,442 $ 304,964 $ 309,273 Net income (loss) margin 2.1 % (8.4) % 12.8 % Adjusted EBITDA Margin 32.9 % 32.9 % 33.7 % ____________________ 1 Beginning with the third quarter of 2023 reporting period, the Company reclassified historical legal fees associated with our warrant litigation from Selling, general and administrative expenses to Loss on litigation within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The aggregate amount of these fees reported through June 30, 2023, totaled $7.5 million, with $1.1 million recognized for the three months ended December 31, 2022 and $6.4 million recognized for the six months ended June 30, 2023. This change in classification serves to increase our Adjusted EBITDA by $6.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 and $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, when compared to classification in prior periods. 2 Fair value adjustments for our swaps and foreign currency exchange contracts, foreign exchange gains (losses) and other insignificant non-operating related (expenses) income. 59 Table of Content Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of liquidity are our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by operations and amounts available under our revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, we had cash and cash equivalents of $136.6 million, $97.9 million and $186.3 million, respectively, and availability under our revolving credit facility. On May 4, 2023, we increased and extended our revolving credit facility to $150.0 million, which expires May 4, 2028. Additionally, we voluntarily prepaid a total of $50.4 million of outstanding indebtedness in 2023. Our principal liquidity needs include debt service and capital expenditures, as well as those required to support working capital, internal growth, and strategic acquisitions and investments. Deferred revenue represents the majority of our current liabilities, which given its nature is not expected to require cash settlement. As we have previously disclosed, the Company has been named as a defendant in two lawsuits filed by former public warrant holders. The plaintiffs generally alleged breaches of the Warrant Agreement, dated August 4, 2020, and alternative claims for violations of the federal securities laws, including claims under the Securities Act of 1933 and/or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. On October 27, 2023, the Court issued its decision on the cross-motions for summary judgment and entered judgment in favor of Plaintiffs on their breach of contract claims in the amount of $36.9 million for Alta Partners, LLC and $51.0 million for the CRCM plaintiffs, plus, in each case, pre-judgment interest of 9.0% per annum. The Companys Loss on Litigation is comprised of these summary judgment amounts, in addition to pre and post-judgment interest and associated legal fees and other direct costs through December 31, 2023. The Company has recognized Recovery of Loss on Litigation of $60.0 million, which represents the limit of the Companys insurance coverage for this matter. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had a remaining insurance recovery receivable of $48.6 million. The Company has appealed the part of the Courts decision that ruled in favor of the plaintiffs. We have previously disclosed that we have open tax audits in various jurisdictions and some of these jurisdictions require taxpayers to pay assessed taxes in advance or at the time of appealing such assessments. The Company has open tax audits in various jurisdictions and some of these jurisdictions require taxpayers to pay assessed taxes in advance or at the time of appealing such assessments. One such jurisdiction is Canada, where one of the Companys subsidiaries, iStockphoto ULC, recently received tax assessments from the CRA asserting additional tax is due. The position taken by the CRA is related to the transactions between iStockphoto ULC and other affiliates within the Getty Images group for the 2015 Canadian income tax return filed. The Company believes the CRA position lacks merit and intends to appeal and vigorously contest these assessments. As part of the appeal process in Canada, the Company may be required to pay a portion of the assessed amounts, which we estimate could be up to $19.3 million. Such required payment is not an admission that the Company believes it is subject to such taxes. The Company believes it is more likely than not it will prevail on appeal, however, if the CRA were to be successful in the appeal process, we estimate the maximum potential outcome could be up to $29.2 million. Future cash needs We expect to fund our ordinary course operating activities from existing cash and cash flows from operations and believe that these sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund our ordinary course operations and other planned investing activities for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. From time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, investments and other growth and strategic opportunities. While we believe we have sufficient liquidity to fund our ordinary course operations for the foreseeable future, our sources of liquidity could be affected by current and future difficult economic conditions, payment of certain restructuring costs, reliance on key personnel, international risks, intellectual property claims, the resolution of pending or future tax audits or other factors described herein under Potential Liability and Insurance below and