Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to CC Neuberger Principal Holdings II. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Overview We were incorporated on May 12, 2020 as a Cayman Islands exempted company for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (a Business Combination).Our sponsor is CC Neuberger Principal Holdings II Sponsor LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (our Sponsor). We completed our initial public offering (the Initial Public Offering) on August 4, 2020 and completed our Business Combination on July 22, 2022 as described below. Recent Developments On December 9, 2021, the Company, New CCNB, Domestication Merger Sub, G Merger Sub 1, G Merger Sub 2, Griffey Global, and solely for limited purposes expressly set forth therein, the Partnership, entered into the Business Combination Agreement (each as defined in Note 1 to the unaudited financial statements included herein). On July 22, 2022, the parties consummated the transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement. See Note 1 to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein for more information. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception through June 30, 2022 related to our formation, the preparation for the Initial Public Offering, and since the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the search for a prospective Business Combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. We will not generate any operating revenues until after completion of our Business Combination. We will generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and cash equivalents. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. Additionally, we recognize non-cash gains and losses within other income (expense) related to changes in recurring fair value measurement of our warrant liabilities, working capital loan and forward purchase agreements at each reporting period. For the three months ended June 30, 2022, we had net income of approximately $31.7 million, which consisted of a gain of $32.2 million from the change in fair value of the derivative liabilities and approximately $1.1 million on investments held in Trust Account, partially offset by approximately $1.5 million in general and administrative costs. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had net loss of approximately $7.8 million, which consisted of a loss of $7.0 million from the change in fair value of the derivative liabilities, approximately $801,000 in general and administrative costs and a loss of approximately $5,000 on investments held in Trust Account. 23 Table of Contents For the six months ended June 30, 2022, we had net income of approximately $48.8 million, which consisted of a gain of $51.3 million from the change in fair value of the derivative liabilities and approximately $1.3 on investments held in Trust Account, partially offset by approximately $3.8 million in general and administrative costs. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had net income of approximately $19.6 million, which consisted of a gain of approximately $20.5 million from the change in fair value of the derivative liabilities and approximately $135,000 of investment income on Trust Account, partially offset by approximately $1.1 million in general and administrative costs. Going Concern As of June 30, 2022, we had approximately $3,000 in our operating bank account and negative working capital of approximately $815,000. Prior to the completion of the Initial Public Offering, our liquidity needs had been satisfied through the payment of $25,000 from our Sponsor to cover for certain expenses on our behalf in exchange for the issuance of the founder shares, and a loan of approximately $267,000 pursuant to a note agreement issued to our Sponsor (the Note). Subsequent to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering and Private Placement, our liquidity needs have been satisfied with the proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account. We fully repaid the Note on September 10, 2020. In addition, in order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor may, but is not obligated to, provide us Working Capital Loans. On January 7, 2022, we issued an unsecured promissory note in the principal amount of $800,000 to the Sponsor as a Working Capital Loan. On May 18, 2022, we issued an additional unsecured promissory note in the principal amount of $50,000 to the Sponsor as a Working Capital Loan. In connection with our assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 205-40, Presentation of Financial Statements - Going Concern, we determined that if the Company did not complete a Business Combination by August 4, 2022, then the Company would cease all operations except for the purpose of liquidating. The Company consummated the Business Combination on the Closing Date, prior to the mandatory liquidation date of August 4, 2022, and as such the ability of company formerly known as CC Neuberger Principal Holdings II to continue as a going concern is no longer applicable. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should the Company be required to liquidate after August 4, 2022. We continue to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and has concluded that the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of the condensed consolidated balance sheets. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Contractual Obligations Registration and Shareholder Rights The holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any Class A ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans) are entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration and shareholder rights agreement. The holders of these securities are entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that we register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of the initial Business Combination. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement We granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of the prospectus to purchase up to 10,800,000 additional Units at the Initial Public Offering price less the underwriting discounts and commissions. On August 4, 2020, we closed the issuance of such additional Units pursuant to the underwriters full exercise of the over-allotment option. The underwriters were entitled to an underwriting discount of $0.20 per unit, or approximately $16.6 million in the aggregate, paid upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering. In addition, the underwriters are entitled to a deferred underwriting commission of $0.35 per 24 Table of Contents unit, or approximately $29.0 million in the aggregate. The deferred underwriting commission will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Administrative Support Agreement Commencing on the effective date of the registration statement on Form S-1 related to the Initial Public Offering through the earlier of consummation of the initial Business Combination and the Companys liquidation, we reimburse the Sponsor for office space, secretarial and administrative services provided to us in the amount of $20,000 per month. We incurred approximately $60,000 in general and administrative expenses in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for both the three months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021. We incurred approximately $120,000 in general and administrative expenses in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for both the six months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021. As of June 30, 2022 and December 31, 2021, $460,000 and $340,000, respectively, was included in accrued expenses - related party in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Forward Purchase Arrangement In connection with the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, the Company entered into the Forward Purchase Agreement with Neuberger Berman Opportunistic Capital Solutions Master Fund LP (NBOKS), a member of our Sponsor, which will provide for the purchase of up to $200,000,000 of units, with each unit consisting of one Class A ordinary share and three-sixteenths of one warrant to purchase one Class A ordinary share at $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment, for a purchase price of $10.00 per unit, in a private placement to occur concurrently with the closing of our initial business combination. The obligations under the Forward Purchase Agreement will not depend on whether any Class A ordinary shares are redeemed by our public shareholder. Deferred Legal Fees The Company entered into an engagement letter to obtain legal advisory services, pursuant to which the Companys legal counsel agreed to defer their fees until the closing of a Business Combination. As of June 30, 2022 and December 31, 2021, the Company recorded an aggregate of $5.9 million and $3.9 million, respectively, in connection with such arrangement as non-current accounts payable and accrued expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates This managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to fair value of financial instruments and accrued expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company has identified the following as its critical accounting policies: 25 Table of Contents Working Capital Loan We have elected the fair value option to account for our Working Capital Loan with our Sponsor. As a result of applying the fair value option of the conversion feature, we record each draw at fair value with a gain or loss recognized at issuance, and subsequent changes in fair value are recorded as change in the fair value of Working Capital Loan on the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. The fair value of the conversion feature is based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement. These inputs reflect managements and, if applicable, an independent third-party valuation firms own assumption about the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. Derivative Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of our financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815).The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. We issued an aggregate of 20,700,000 warrants associated with Units issued to investors in our Initial Public Offering and the underwriters exercise of their overallotment option (the Public Warrants) and we issued 18,560,000 Private Placement Warrants. In addition, we entered into a forward purchase agreement in connection with the Initial Public Offering which provides for an affiliate of our Sponsor to purchase of up to $200,000,000 of units, with each unit consisting of one Class A ordinary share and three-sixteenths of one warrant to purchase one Class A ordinary share at $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment, for a purchase price of $10.00 per unit, in a private placement to occur concurrently with the closing of our initial Business Combination (the Forward Purchase Agreement). All of our outstanding warrants and the Forward Purchase Agreement are recognized as derivative assets and liabilities in accordance with ASC 815. For equity-linked contracts that are classified as assets or liabilities, we record the fair value of the equity-linked contracts at each balance sheet date and record the change in the statements of operations as a (gain) loss on change in fair value of derivative liabilities. Our Public Warrants were initially valued using a binomial lattice pricing model when the Public Warrants were not yet trading and did not have observable pricing and are now valued based on public market quoted prices. Our Private Placement Warrants are valued using a binomial lattice pricing model when the warrants are subject to the make-whole table, or otherwise are valued using a Black-Scholes pricing model. Our Forward Purchase Agreement is valued utilizing observable market prices for public shares and warrants, relative to the present value of contractual cash proceeds, each adjusted for the probability of executing a successful business combination. The assumptions used in preparing these models include estimates such as volatility, contractual terms, discount rates, dividend rate, expiration dates and risk-free rates. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of our derivative assets and liabilities change at each balance sheet date based on our stock price and other assumptions described above. If our assumptions change or we experience significant volatility in our stock price or interest rates, the fair value calculated from one balance sheet period to the next could be materially different. 26 Table of Contents Investments Held in Trust Account The Companys portfolio of investments is comprised solely of U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act, with a maturity of 185 days or less, or investments in money market funds that invest in U.S. government securities, or a combination thereof. The Companys investments held in the Trust Account are classified as trading securities. Trading securities are presented on the condensed consolidated balance sheets at fair value at the end of each reporting period. Gains and losses resulting from the change in fair value of these securities is included in net gain on investments held in Trust Account in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The estimated fair values of investments held in the Trust Account are determined using available market information, other than for investments in open-ended money market funds with published daily net asset values (NAV), in which case the Company uses NAV as a practical expedient to fair value. The NAV on these investments is typically held constant at $1.00 per unit. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A ordinary shares (including Class A ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at June 30, 2022 and December 31, 2021, 82,800,000 Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of the Companys condensed consolidated balance sheets. Effective with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the Company recognized the accretion from initial book value to redemption amount, which, resulted in charges against additional paid-in capital (to the extent available) and accumulated deficit. Net Income (Loss) Per Ordinary Share We have two classes of shares: Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Income and losses are shared pro rata between the two classes of shares. Net income (loss) per ordinary share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the periods. We have not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement to purchase an aggregate of 39,260,000, of the Companys Class A ordinary shares in the calculation of diluted net income (loss) per share, because their exercise is contingent upon future events and their inclusion would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. As a result, diluted net income (loss) per share is the same as basic net income (loss) per share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021. Accretion associated with the Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is excluded from earnings per share as the redemption value approximates fair value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Our management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material impact on our financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2022, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.