Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, references in this section to the Company, Getty Images, we, us, our and other similar terms refer to Getty Images Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of Getty Images should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The discussion should also be read together with the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the Item 1A. Risk Factors section and historical audited annual consolidated financial statements of Getty Images Holdings, Inc. as of December 31, 2024 and 2023 and the respective notes thereto, included in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2024 Form 10-K). We qualify as a smaller reporting company because the market value of our shares of Class A common stock held by non-affiliates was less than $250 million as of the end of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter. If we are a smaller reporting company at the time we cease to be an emerging growth company, we may continue to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are available to smaller reporting companies. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of the words such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, expect, should, would, plan, project, forecast, predict, potential, seem, seek, future, outlook, target or similar expressions that predict or indicate future events or trends or that are not statements of historical matters. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding estimates and forecasts of other financial and performance metrics and projections of market opportunity. These statements are based on various assumptions, whether or not identified in this report, and on the current expectations of our management and are not predictions of actual performance. These forward-looking statements are provided for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to serve as, and must not be relied on by any investor as, a guarantee, an assurance, a prediction or a definitive statement of fact or probability. Actual events and circumstances are difficult or impossible to predict and will differ from assumptions. Many actual events and circumstances are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: our inability to continue to license third-party content and offer relevant quality and diversity of content to satisfy customer needs; our ability to attract new customers and retain and motivate an increase in spending by our existing customers; our ability to grow our subscriptions business; the user experience of our customers on our websites; the extent to which we are able to maintain and expand the breadth and quality of our content library through content licensed from third-party suppliers, content acquisitions and imagery captured by our staff of in-house photographers; the mix of and basis upon which we license our content, including the price-points at, and the license models and purchase options through, which we license our content; the risk that we operate in a highly competitive market; the risk that we are unable to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively manage costs; our inability to effectively manage our growth; our inability to maintain an effective system of internal controls and financial reporting; the risk that we may lose the right to use Getty Images trademarks; our inability to evaluate our future prospects and challenges due to evolving markets and customers industries; the legal, social and ethical issues relating to the use of new and evolving technologies, such as Artificial Intelligence and machine learning (collectively, AI), including statements regarding AI and innovation momentum; the increased use of AI applications such as generative AI technologies that may result in harm to our brand, reputation, business, or intellectual property; the risk that our operations in and continued expansion into international markets bring additional business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks; our inability to adequately adapt our technology systems to ingest and deliver sufficient new content; 19 Table of Contents the risk of technological interruptions or cybersecurity breaches, incidents, and vulnerabilities; the risk that any prolonged strike by, or lockout of, one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to the production of films or television programs, such as the 2023 strike by the writers union and the actors unions and including its lingering effects, could further impact our entertainment business; the inability to expand our operations into new products, services and technologies and to increase customer and supplier awareness of our new and emerging products and services, including with respect to our AI initiatives; the loss of and inability to attract and retain key personnel that could negatively impact our business growth; the inability to protect the proprietary information of customers and networks against security breaches and protect and enforce intellectual property rights; our reliance on third parties; the risks related to our use of independent contractors; the risk that an increase in government regulation of the industries and markets in which we operate could negatively impact our business; the impact of worldwide and regional political, military or economic conditions, including declines in foreign currencies in relation to the value of the U.S. dollar, hyperinflation, higher interest rates, trade wars and restrictions, devaluation, the impact of recent bank failures on the marketplace and the ability to access credit and significant political or civil disturbances in international markets where we conduct business; the risk that claims, judgements, lawsuits and other proceedings that have been, or may be, instituted against us or our predecessors, including pending lawsuits brought against us by former warrant holders, could adversely affect our business; the inability to maintain the listing of our Class A common stock on the New York Stock Exchange; volatility in our stock price and in the liquidity of the trading market for our Class A common stock; the impact of any widespread outbreak of an illness, pandemic or other local or global health issue, natural disasters, or climate change; changes in applicable laws or regulations; the risks associated with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure requirements; the risk of greater than anticipated tax liabilities; the risks associated with the storage and use of personally identifiable information; earnings-related risks such as those associated with late payments, goodwill or other intangible assets; our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms; the risks associated with being an emerging growth company and smaller reporting company within the meaning of the U.S. securities laws; risks associated with our reliance on information technology in critical areas of our operations; our inability to pay dividends for the foreseeable future; the risks associated with additional issuances of Class A common stock without stockholder approval; risks related to our proposed merger with Shutterstock, Inc. (Shutterstock); costs related to operating as a public company; and other risks and uncertainties identified in Item 1A. Risk Factors of our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks materialize or our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from the results implied by these forward-looking statements. These and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those implied by the forward-looking statements in this report are more fully described under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2024 Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. The risks described under the heading Item 1.A. Risk Factors in our 2024 Form 10-K are not exhaustive. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing cautionary statements. We undertake no obligations to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In addition, the statements of belief and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us, as applicable, as of the date of this report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and you are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. 20 Table of Contents Recent Developments Merger Agreement with Shutterstock On January 6, 2025, Getty Images entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) to combine in a merger-of-equals transaction with Shutterstock. Subject to terms and conditions in the Merger Agreement, the aggregate consideration to be paid by Getty Images in respect of the outstanding shares of common stock of Shutterstock will be: An amount in cash equal to the product of $9.50 multiplied by the number of shares of Shutterstock common stock outstanding immediately prior to the transaction close (including vested Shutterstock restricted stock units and performance stock units) (the Total Cash Amount); and A number of shares of our Class A common stock equal to the product of 9.17 multiplied by the number of shares of Shutterstock common stock outstanding immediately prior to the transaction close (including vested Shutterstock restricted stock units and performance stock units) (the Total Stock Amount). Each of the Total Cash Amount and the Total Stock Amount will be fixed as of immediately prior to closing of the Merger. Therefore, cash elections will be subject to proration if cash elections are oversubscribed and stock elections will be subject to proration if stock elections are oversubscribed. Each holder of Shutterstock common stock immediately prior to the transaction close will have the option to receive, subject to proration, for each share of Shutterstock common stock held by such holder: Cash consideration of $9.50 and 9.17 shares of our Class A common stock; Cash consideration of $28.8487; or 13.67237 shares of our Class A common stock. Following the close of the transaction, based on the common shares outstanding as of April 25, 2025, Getty Images stockholders will own approximately 53.0% and Shutterstock stockholders will own approximately 47.0% of the combined company on a fully diluted basis. The transaction is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals, the approval of Getty Images and Shutterstock stockholders and other customary closing conditions Through March 31, 2025, Getty Images has expensed $18.0 million of legal, accounting, and other direct costs related to this proposed Merger in Other operating expenses (income) net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. On April 2, 2025, Getty Images and Shutterstock announced that they had each received a Request for Additional Information and Documentary Material (Second Request) from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) in connection with the transaction. The Second Request was issued under notification requirements of the HSR Act. The effect of the Second Request is to extend the waiting period imposed by the HSR Act until 30 days after Getty Images and Shutterstock have substantially complied with the request, unless that period is extended voluntarily by the parties or terminated sooner by the DOJ. Following submission of a briefing paper, on April 22, 2025, the United Kingdom Competition and Markets Authority invited Getty Images to submit a Merger Notice and their review process is ongoing. Refinancing Amendment Incremental Commitment Amendment and Third Amendment to Credit Agreement (the Refinancing Amendment), which amended the Existing Credit Agreement. The Refinancing Amendment provided for a new tranche of senior secured fixed rate incremental term loans denominated in U.S. dollars in an aggregate principal amount of $580.0 million (the New USD Term Loans) and a new tranche of senior secured term loans denominated in Euros in an aggregate principal amount of 440.0 million (the New EUR Term Loans and together with the New USD Term Loans, the New Term Loans). 21 Table of Contents The amendment, among other things, provided for (i) a new tranche of senior secured fixed rate incremental term loans denominated in U.S. Dollars in an aggregate principal amount of $580.0 million and (ii) a new tranche of senior secured term loans denominated in Euros in an aggregate principal amount of 440.0 million. The proceeds of the New Term Loans were used to refinance in full all outstanding term loans under the existing credit agreement, and will mature on February 21, 2030. See Note 7 - Debt for additional discussion on our debt refinancing. The proceeds from the New Terms Loans were used to retire and repay the following debts: Old USD Term Loans, with a $579.2 million principal amount as of the Amendment Effective Date, and Old EUR Term Loans, with a 419 million principal amount as of the Amendment Effective Date Business Overview Getty Images is a preeminent global visual content creator and marketplace, providing a diverse collection of high-quality photos, illustrations, videos, and music licensing to businesses, media organizations, and individuals worldwide. The Company is one of the largest and most respected providers of stock imagery and multimedia content. For 30 years, Getty Images has embraced innovation, from analog to digital, from offline to e-commerce, from stills to video, from single image purchasing to subscriptions, from websites to application programming interfaces (APIs), from pre-shot content to AI generated content designed to be commercially safe. With quality content at the core of our offerings, we embrace innovation as a means to service our existing customers better and to reach new ones. We offer comprehensive content solutions, including a la carte (ALC) and subscription access to our pre- shot content and coverage, generative AI-services, custom content and coverage solutions, digital asset management tools, data insights, research, and print offerings. Through our content and coverage, Getty Images moves the worldwhether the goal is commercial or philanthropic, revenue-generating or society-changing, market-disrupting or headline-driving. Through our staff, our exclusive contributors and partners, and our expertise, data, and research, Getty Images content grabs attention, sheds light, represents communities, and reminds us of our history. Through Getty Images, iStock, and Unsplash, we offer a full range of content solutions to meet the needs of any customerno matter their sizearound the globe, with over 615 million visual assets available through its industry-leading sites. New content and coverage are added daily, with over 12 million new assets added each quarter and over 2.7 billion searches annually. The Company has over 708,000 purchasing customers, with customers from almost every country in the world with websites in 23 languages bringing the worlds best content to media outlets, advertising agencies, and corporations of all sizes and, increasingly, serving individual creators and prosumers. In support of its content, Getty Images employs over 115 staff photographers and videographers and distributes the content of over 600,000 contributors and more than 350 premium content partners. Over 81,000 of our contributors are exclusive to the Company, creating content that cannot be found anywhere else. Each year, we cover more than 160,000 global events across news, sport, and entertainment, providing a depth and breadth of coverage that is unmatched. Getty Images also maintains one of the largest and best privately-owned photographic archives in the world, with over 150 million images across geographies, periods, and verticals. We distribute content and services offerings through three primary product lines: Creative Creative is comprised of royalty-free (RF) photos, illustrations, vectors, videos, and generative AI-services that are released for commercial use and cover a wide variety of commercial, conceptual, and contemporary subjects, including lifestyle, business, science, health, wellness, beauty, sports, transportation and travel. This content is available for immediate use by a wide range of customers with depth, breadth, and quality, allowing our customers to produce impactful websites, digital media, social media, marketing campaigns, corporate collateral, textbooks, movies, television, and online video content relevant to their target geographies and audiences. We primarily source Creative content from a broad network of professional, semi-professional, and amateur creators, many exclusive to Getty Images. We have a global creative insights team dedicated to providing briefing and art direction to our exclusive contributor community. Creative 22 Table of Contents represents 59.0% and 62.5% of our revenue, of which 59.2% and 55.1%1 is generated through our annual subscription products for the three months ended March 31, 2025, and 2024, respectively. Annual Subscription products include products and subscriptions for 12 months or longer, Unsplash API, and Custom Content. Editorial Editorial is comprised of photos and videos covering the world of entertainment, sports, and news. We combine contemporary coverage of events around the globe with one of the largest privately held archives globally, with access to images from the beginning of photography. We invest in a dedicated editorial team that includes over 115 staff photographers and videographers to generate our own coverage in addition to coverage from our network of content partners. Editorial represents 36.9% and 35.7% of our revenue, of which 57.7% and 54.6% is generated through our annual subscription products for the three months ended March 31, 2025, and 2024, respectively. Annual Subscription products include subscriptions with a duration of 12 months or longer. Other Other represents 4.1% and 1.8% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. This includes music licensing, digital asset management, distribution services, print sales, and data access and/or licensing. We service a full range of customers through our industry-leading brands and websites: Getty Images Gettyimages.com offers premium creative content and editorial coverage, including video, with exclusive content, and customizable rights and protections. This site primarily serves more prominent enterprise agency, media, and corporate customers with global customer support from our sales and service teams. Customers can purchase on an ALC basis or through our content subscriptions, including our Premium Access subscription, where we uniquely offer frictionless access across all of the Getty Images and iStock content in one solution. iStock iStock.com is our budget-conscious e-commerce offering our customers access to creative stills and video, which includes exclusive content. This site primarily serves small and medium-sized businesses, including the growing freelance market. Customers can purchase on an ALC basis or through a range of monthly and annual subscription options with access to an extensive amount of unique and exclusive content. Unsplash Unsplash.com is a platform offering free stock photo downloads and paid subscriptions targeted to the high-growth prosumer and semi-professional creator segments. The Unsplash website reaches a significant and geographically diverse audience with more than 88 million image downloads every month. In addition to our websites, customers and partners can access and integrate our content, metadata and search capabilities via our APIs and through a range of mobile apps and plugins. We are a critical intermediary between content suppliers and a broad set of customers. We compete against a broad range of stock licensing marketplaces, editorial news agencies, creative agencies, production companies, staff and freelance photographers and videographers, photo and video archives, freelance marketplaces and amateur content creators, creative tools and services and free sources. Getty Images unique offering and approach offers a strong value proposition to our customers and content contributors. For customers: We offer a comprehensive suite of high quality, authentic content, purchase and licensing options and services to meet the needs of our customers, regardless of project requirements, needs or budgets. 1Prior year percentage has been restated to conform to the current year presentation. 23 Table of Contents Our content sourcing and production, rights oversight, websites and content distribution are all supported by a unique, scalable cloud-based unified platform with powerful artificial intelligence/machine learning and data addressing all customers at scale. Customers have access to Generative AI by Getty Images and iStock which is designed to be a commercially-safe and responsible solution designed to help embrace AI, elevate creativity, and ideate or iterate on concepts and compositions. Customers can avoid the costly investment and environmental impact of producing content on their own. This can include costs incurred from staffing, travel and access, model and location, hardware and production, and editing. Customers do not have to wait for content to be produced and distributed and can avoid the difficulties and pitfalls of searching across the internet to locate and negotiate for rights to license or use specific content. Our best-in-class, scaled infrastructure offers customers a one-stop shop for instant content access and maneuverability. Customers licensing from Getty Images and iStock receive trusted copyright claim protections, model and property releases and the ability to secure the necessary clearances for their intended use of the content. For content contributors: Access to a marketplace that reaches almost every country in the world, across all customer categories and sizes and generated annual royalties of nearly $220 million for the trailing twelve months ending March 31, 2025. We maintain a dedicated and experienced creative insights team focused on understanding changes in customer demand, the visual landscape, the authentic portrayal of communities and cultures, and the evolution of core creative concepts. We work closely with leading organizations to augment our proprietary research and understanding of communities and cultures to provide content with authentic depiction. We convey this research to our exclusive contributors via actionable insights allowing them to invest in and create content that accurately caters to changing consumer demand and up to date market trends. Not only do we provide exclusive contributors with scaled access to end markets and proprietary information, but we also provide premium royalty rates. This allows our exclusive contributors and partners to confidently invest more into their productions with the potential to generate higher returns. Partnering with Getty Images allows contributors to focus on content creation and avoid time and financial investment in the marketing, sales, distribution and management of their content. Our Generative AI by Getty Images and iStock products compensates our world-class content creators for the use of their work in our AI models, allowing them to continue to create more high-quality pre-shot imagery. Macroeconomic Conditions The broader implications of the macroeconomic environment, including uncertainty around recent international armed conflicts in the Ukraine and the Middle East, geopolitical tensions, lingering supply chain shortages, tariffs, inflationary and interest rate pressures, and other related global economic conditions, remain unknown. A deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could continue to increase the risk of lower consumer spending, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, or other business interruptions, which may adversely impact our business and financial results. Components of Operating Results Revenue We generate revenue by licensing content to customers through multiple license models and purchase options, as well as by providing related services to our customers. The key image licensing model in the pre-shot market is RF. Content licensed on a RF basis is subject to a standard set of terms, allowing the customer to use the image for an unlimited duration and without limitation on the use or application. Within our video offering, we also offer a licensing model known as Rights-Ready. The Rights-Ready model offers a limited selection of broader usage categories, thus simplifying the purchase process. In September 2023 and January 2024, we launched Generative AI by Getty Images and Generative AI by iStock, respectively. They are generative AI text to image and image to image tools that were trained on Getty Images worldclass creative content and designed for commercial use. Customers that download visuals through the tool will receive the standard royaltyfree license. In addition to licensing imagery and video, we generate revenue from custom content solutions, photo and video assignments, music content in some of our subscriptions, print sales, data access and/or licensing and licensing our digital asset management systems to help customers manage their owned and licensed digital content. A significant portion of the business has transitioned to a subscription model with strong retention characteristics. Annual subscriptions now comprise approximately 57% of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025, and we continue to focus on growing subscription revenue. 24 Table of Contents References to reported revenue in this discussion and analysis are to our revenue as reported in our historical condensed consolidated financial statements for the relevant periods and reflect the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. References to currency neutral (Currency Neutral or CN) revenue growth or decline (expressed as a percentage) in this section refer to our revenue growth or decline (expressed as a percentage), excluding the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information regarding Currency Neutral revenue growth or decline (expressed as a percentage). Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) The ownership rights to the majority of the content we license are retained by the owners, and licensing rights are provided to us by a large network of content contributors and content partners. When we license content entrusted to us by content suppliers, we pay royalties to them at varying rates depending on the license model and the use of that content that our customers select. Suppliers who choose to work with us under contract typically receive royalties of 20% to 50% of the total license fee we charge customers, depending on the basis on which their content is licensed by our customers. Contributors will be compensated for any inclusion of their content in AI data training sets and, in certain cases, share in the revenue generated by AI tools and services trained with their content. We also own the copyright to certain content in our collections (wholly-owned content), including content produced by our staff photographers for our editorial product, for which we do not pay any third-party royalties. Cost of revenue includes certain costs of our assignment photo shoots, but excludes amortization associated with creating or buying content. Cost of revenue consists primarily of royalties owed to content contributors, comprised of photographers, filmmakers, third-party companies that license their collection of content through us (Content Partners) and third party music content providers. Going forward, we expect cost of revenue to trend higher in absolute dollars as we continue growing our revenue. We expect our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue to vary modestly based on changes in revenue mix by product, as royalty rates vary depending on license model and use of content. Selling, general, and administrative expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) primarily consist of staff costs, marketing expenses, occupancy costs, professional fees and other general operating charges. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars but remain relatively constant as a percentage of revenue in the near term. Absolute dollar spending will increase as we continue to expand our operations and invest in our growth. Lastly, we expect our marketing to stay relatively constant as a percentage of revenue. However, the Company will continue to evaluate opportunities to incrementally invest in marketing as may be appropriate. Depreciation Depreciation expense consists of internally developed software, content and equipment depreciation. We record property and equipment at cost and reflect Balance Sheet balances net of accumulated depreciation. We record depreciation expense on a straight-line basis. We depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter of the respective lives of the leases or the useful lives of the improvements. We expect depreciation expense to remain stable as we continue to innovate and invest in the design, user experience and performance of our websites. Amortization Amortization expense consists of the amortization of intangible assets related to acquired customer relationships, trademarks and other intangible assets. The majority of our intangible assets have been fully amortized. We expect amortization expense to be insignificant in the coming years. Factors affecting results of operations A shift in the product mix of our revenue may affect our overall cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue. Our revenues and profitability are also subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The weakening or strengthening of our reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar, during any given period as compared to currencies that we collect revenues in, most notably, the Euro and British pound, impacts our reported revenues. 25 Table of Contents Our future financial condition and results of operation will also be dependent upon various factors that generally affect the digital content industry, including the general trends affecting the media, marketing and advertising customer bases that we target, protection of intellectual property, and new and expanding technology such as generative AI technologies. In addition, our financial condition and results of operation will continue to be affected by factors that affect internet commerce companies and by general deterioration in macroeconomic factors that could continue to increase the risks of lower consumer spending, other business interruptions, the global and economic uncertainty caused by, among other things, any lingering effects of the Hollywood actors and writers strike and public health crisis, the military conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East, tariffs or trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. and other countries, changes in political climate, and high interest rates, currency fluctuations, high inflation and labor shortages. Impact of Currency Fluctuations Assets and liabilities for subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are recorded in foreign currencies and translated at the exchange rate on the Balance Sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged or credited to Other comprehensive income (loss), as a separate component of stockholders equity. The Company recognized net foreign currency translation adjustment gains of $20.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2025 and net foreign currency translation adjustment losses of $15.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in Foreign exchange (loss) gain net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, the Company recognized net unrealized foreign currency transaction losses of $25.1 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the Company recognized net unrealized foreign currency transaction gains of $16.4 million. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our operating results for the periods indicated. Three Months Ended March 31, increase (decrease) (In thousands, except percentages) 2025 2024 $ change % change Revenue $ 224,077 $ 222,278 $ 1,799 0.8 % Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 60,209 60,256 (47) (0.1) % Selling, general and administrative expenses 98,268 100,944 (2,676) (2.7) % Depreciation 14,947 14,360 587 4.1 % Amortization 566 534 32 6.0 % Loss on litigation 4,343 2,022 2,321 114.8 % Other operating expenses net 18,402 3,128 15,274 488.3 % Total operating expenses 196,735 181,244 15,491 8.5 % Income from operations 27,342 41,034 (13,692) (33.4) % Interest expense (32,675) (32,724) 49 (0.1) % (Loss) on fair value adjustment for swaps net (1,459) 1,459 (100.0) % Foreign exchange (loss) gain net (25,078) 16,422 (41,500) (252.7) % Loss on extinguishment of debt (5,474) (5,474) NM Other non-operating (expense) income net (2,094) 1,515 (3,609) (238.2) % Total other expense net (65,321) (16,246) (49,075) 302.1 % (Loss) income before income taxes (37,979) 24,788 (62,767) (253.2) % Income tax (expense) benefit (64,593) (11,201) (53,392) 476.7 % Net (loss) income $ (102,572) $ 13,587 $ (116,159) (854.9) % ________________________ NM - Not meaningful Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue by product (In thousands, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, increase / (decrease) 2025 % of revenue 2024 % of revenue $ change % change CN % change Creative 132,175 59.0 % 138,842 62.5 % (6,667) (4.8) % (3.0) % Editorial 82,617 36.9 % 79,429 35.7 % 3,188 4.0 % 5.6 % Other 9,285 4.1 % 4,007 1.8 % 5,278 131.7 % 135.5 % Total revenue $ 224,077 100.0 % $ 222,278 100.0 % $ 1,799 0.8 % 2.6 % Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, total revenue on a reported basis was $224.1 million as compared to $222.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. On a reported basis, revenue increased by 0.8% (2.6% CN) for the three months ended March 31, 2025. Creative revenue decreased on a reported basis 4.8% (3.0% CN) to $132.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $138.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease of $6.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was driven by declines in our ALC credit sales and ultra packs, ALC Premium RF stills and video and iStock monthly subscriptions (decreased $6.6 million). These declines were largely driven by reduced revenue from Agency customers, which are accounted for entirely within Creative revenue and purchase mainly on an ALC basis. Declines were also seen from our Unsplash advertising business largely driven by an agreement that was signed in the prior year period (decreased $1.8 million). Additionally, we saw offsetting increases in Creative subscriptions (increased $1.8 million). Editorial revenue increased on a reported basis by $3.2 million, or 4.0%, to $82.6 million, and 5.6% on a currency-neutral basis. The increase was driven by Editorial subscriptions (increased $4.3 million), offset by Editorial ALC (decreased $1.1 million). 27 Table of Contents Overall, these product net increases were driven by double-digit growth in Sport and News, offset by a decrease in Entertainment due to the Los Angeles wildfires, which led to event cancellations and lower production activity. Other revenue increased on a reported basis by $5.3 million, or 131.7%, to $9.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. On a currency-neutral basis, other revenue increased 135.5% compared to the same period in 2024. The increase was primarily driven by data access and new licensing agreements. Revenue Recognition The timing of our revenue recognition can be influenced by several factors, including the nature of the contract with the customer, and the Companys estimates regarding unused content and customer download patterns. These factors can lead to variability in the timing and amount of revenue recognized in a given period. The weakening or strengthening of our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, during any given period compared to currencies we collect revenues in, most notably, the Euro and British pound, impacts our reported revenues. Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $60.2 million compared to $60.3 million in the same prior year period. As a percentage of total revenue, cost of revenue was 26.9% and 27.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively. Any changes in cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue compared to a prior period is due primarily to revenue mix by product. Generally, cost of revenue rates vary modestly period over period based on changes in revenue mix by product, as royalty rates vary depending on the license model and use of content. Selling, general, and administrative expense Reported SG&A expense decreased by $2.7 million or 2.7% (decreased 1.4% CN) for the three months ended March 31, 2025 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. SG&A fluctuations from the prior period include the following: decrease of $4.6 million related to staff costs for the three months ended March 31, 2025. The decrease was primarily driven by lower equity-based compensation. increase of $1.4 million related to professional fees for the three months ended March 31, 2025, primarily related to legal fees incurred for several of our ongoing AI litigation case. increase of $0.6 million related to computer expense for the three months ended March 31, 2025. Depreciation expense Depreciation expense was $14.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, an increase of $0.6 million or 4.1% compared to $14.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase is due to capital investments made that are primarily related to internal software development as we continue to innovate and invest in the design, user experience and performance of our websites. Amortization expense For the three months ended March 31, 2025, amortization expense was $0.6 million, which was relatively flat compared to $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Loss on litigation For the three months ended March 31, 2025, the Company recognized loss on litigation of $4.3 million compared to $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The loss on litigation consists of the interest on the summary judgment, legal fees, and amortization of fees related to appeal bond. The Company will continue to see these expenses as we navigate through the appeal of the judgment in the actions captioned by Alta Partners, LLC. V Getty Images Holdings, Inc., Case No. 1:22-cv-08916 and CRCM Institutional Master Fund (BVI) LTD. et al v. Getty Images Holdings, Inc., Case No. 1:23-cv-01074, and incur legal fees related to the additional warrant cases. Other operating expenses net 28 Table of Contents Other operating expenses - net was $18.4 million for the year ended March 31, 2025, compared to $3.1 million in the year ended March 31, 2024. This increase is primarily driven by costs incurred related to our proposed merger with Shutterstock. We expect other operating expenses to fluctuate from period to period as this line item is heavily influenced by non-recurring events such as mergers and acquisitions, claims, settlements, and gains/losses on asset disposals. Interest expense We recognized interest expense of $32.7 million for each of the three months period ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024. Our interest expense primarily consists of interest charges on our on our Old Term Loans, New Term Loans, Senior Notes, and our revolving credit facility which remains undrawn, as well as the amortization of original issue discount and debt issuance costs on our Old Term Loans and New Term Loans and amortization of deferred debt financing fees. See Note 7 - Debt for additional discussions on our debt. (Loss) on fair value adjustment for swaps net We previously held positions in interest rate swaps, which expired in February 2024, and recognized net losses of $1.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024. These loses were driven by changes in interest rates relative to the rates in our derivatives. While we have experienced volatility in the fair value adjustments on our expired derivative instruments, we believe hedging allowed us to reduce our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risks. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to utilize swaps, forwards, and other instruments to mitigate financial risks associated with our business. Foreign exchange (loss) gain net We recognized foreign exchange losses, net of $25.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to net gains of $16.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. These changes are primarily driven by fluctuations in the EUR related to our Old EUR Term Loans and New EUR Term Loans. We expect continued volatility in foreign exchange gains and losses each quarter based on fluctuations in exchange rates impacting our foreign currency exposures. Loss on extinguishment of debt We recognized loss on extinguishment of debt of $5.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from the extinguishment of our Old Term Loans. See Note 7 - Debt for additional discussion on the refinancing of our Old Term Loans. Other non-operating (expense) income net We recognized $2.1 million other non-operating expense, net for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $1.5 million for the three months March 31, 2024. The decrease of $3.6 million was primarily due to costs related to debt refinancing expenses and lower interest income, driven by a decrease in U.S. interest rates. Income taxes The Companys income tax provision is computed using an estimated annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items. The estimated annual effective tax rate is subject to significant volatility due to several factors, including the changes in the forecasted pre-tax income (loss) and income tax (expense) benefit, realizability of deferred tax assets, intercompany transactions, foreign currency gain (loss), mergers and acquisitions, jurisdictional footprints, and changes in the Companys business operations. In addition, the effective tax rates volatility depends on the amount of pre-tax income (loss). For example, the impact of non-taxable, non-deductible, and discrete items on the effective tax rate is greater when the pre-tax income (loss) is smaller. The Company recorded an income tax expense of $64.6 million and $11.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively. For 2025, the Companys effective tax rate is expected to be a large negative percentage due to the Companys pre-tax loss and income tax expense items that are not analogous to pre-tax loss, such as foreign withholding taxes, non-deductible interest expense, and change in valuation allowance. The effective tax rate may vary significantly throughout the year depending on the changes in the pre-tax income (loss). 29 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of liquidity are our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by operations and amounts available under our revolving credit facility. As of March 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $114.6 million and $121.2 million, respectively, and availability under our unused revolving credit facility, which expires May 4, 2028. Our principal liquidity needs include debt service and capital expenditures, as well as those required to support working capital, internal growth, and strategic acquisitions and investments. Deferred revenue represents the majority of our current liabilities, which given its nature is not expected to require cash settlement. We expect existing cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by operations, and financing activities to be adequate to fund our operating activities and cash required for investing and financing activities for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. In February 2025, we amended our existing credit agreement, dated as of February 19, 2019. The amendment, among other things, provided for (i) a new tranche of senior secured fixed rate incremental term loans denominated in U.S. Dollars in an aggregate principal amount of $580.0 million and (ii) a new tranche of senior secured term loans denominated in Euros in an aggregate principal amount of 440.0 million. The proceeds of the New Term Loans were used to refinance in full all outstanding Old Term Loans under the existing credit agreement, and will mature on February 21, 2030. See Note 7 - Debt for additional discussion on our debt refinancing. We may also be subject to losses as a result of legal proceedings that may be in excess of amounts of insurance coverage available. In particular, we have insurance coverage of $60.0 million for losses in respect of the Initial Warrant Litigation, the Follow-on Warrant Litigation (each as defined in Note 12 - Legal Proceedings and Contingencies) and any additional litigation that is filed based on related facts or circumstances, including legal fees and expenses. As of March 31, 2025, we had a remaining insurance recovery receivable related thereto of approximately $40.0 million, with related litigation reserves of $112.4 million. The Company has posted an appeal bond in respect of the Initial Warrant Litigation and, to date, no portion of the judgments entered in the Initial Warrant Litigation, which are subject to appeal, has been paid. To the extent not reimbursed by insurance, we expect to fund any payments required for the resolution of pending legal proceedings with our sources of liquidity. See Note 12 - Legal Proceedings and Contingencies herein for additional discussions of the Initial Warrant Litigation and the Follow-On Warrant Litigation. The Company has open tax audits in various jurisdictions and some of these jurisdictions require taxpayers to pay assessed taxes in advance or at the time of appealing such assessments. One such jurisdiction is Canada, where one of the Companys subsidiaries, iStockphoto ULC, received tax assessments from the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) asserting additional tax is due. The position taken by the CRA is related to the transactions between iStockphoto ULC and other affiliates within the Getty Images group for the 2015 Canadian income tax return filed. The Company believes the CRA position lacks merit and is vigorously contesting these assessments through the appeal process, including engaging with the U.S. Competent Authority. As part of the appeal process in Canada, the Company may be required to pay a portion of the assessment amount, which the Company estimates could be up to $17.8 million. Such required payment is not an admission that the Company believes it is subject to such taxes. The Company believes it is more likely than not it will prevail on appeal, however, if the 30 Table of Contents CRA were to be successful in the appeal process, the Company estimates the maximum potential outcome could be up to $25.9 million. Our cash flows are as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, increase (decrease) (In thousands) 2025 2024 $ change % change Net cash provided by operating activities $ 15,384 $ 21,528 $ (6,144) (28.5) % Net cash used in investing activities $ (15,706) $ (14,452) $ (1,254) (8.7) % Net cash used in financing activities $ (12,547) $ (5,272) $ (7,275) (138.0) % Effects of exchange rate fluctuations $ 6,238 $ (3,918) $ 10,156 259.2 % Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities is primarily comprised of net income, as adjusted for non-cash items, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash adjustments consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, unrealized gains and losses on our foreign denominated debt, equity-based compensation and deferred income taxes. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 cash provided by operating activities was $15.4 million, as compared to cash provided by operating activities of $21.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by an increase in working capital in the three months ended March 31, 2025. Investing Activities The changes in cash flows from investing activities relate to purchases of property and equipment and internal software development as part of our ongoing efforts to innovate in the design, user experience, and performance of our websites. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, cash used in investing activities was $15.7 million and $14.5 million, respectively. The slight increase in cash used for investing activities is in line with the prior period. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, cash used in financing was $12.5 million, compared to $5.3 million for three months ended March 31, 2024. Financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 included debt issuance costs, principal payments on our Old Term Loans, offset by proceeds from debt resulting from issuance of the New Term Loans. Key Performance Indicators and Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to evaluating the Companys performance on a GAAP basis, we use the below key performance indicators (KPIs) and financial measures that are not calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We believe the non-GAAP measures of Currency Neutral (CN) revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) and Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (EBITDA), Adjusted EBITDA less capex, Adjusted EBITDA margin and Adjusted Net Income are useful in evaluating our operating performance. These KPIs and non-GAAP financial measures help us monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations and evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Management believes that these KPIs and non-GAAP financial measures help illustrate underlying trends in our business. We use KPIs and non-GAAP financial measures to establish budgets and operational goals (communicated internally and externally), manage our business and evaluate our performance. We also believe that management and investors benefit from referring to our KPIs and non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental information in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. We believe our KPIs and non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because they allow for greater transparency with respect to financial measures used by management in their financial and operational decision-making and also because investors and the analyst community use them to help evaluate the health of our business. The non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, and should not be considered a substitute for 31 Table of Contents financial information presented. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures. Key Performance Indicators Our KPIs outlined below are the metrics that provide management with the most immediate understanding of the drivers of business performance and our ability to deliver shareholder return, track to financial targets and prioritize customer satisfaction. Our KPIs are reported on a trailing, or last, 12-month basis (LTM), which provides a more current view of the Companys operational performance than year-to-date figures. KPI comparisons for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2024 reflect continued impact of Hollywood strike. Last Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Increase / (Decrease) LTM total purchasing customers (thousands) 708 769 (7.9)% LTM total active annual subscribers (thousands) 318 262 21.2% LTM paid download volume (millions)1 93 95 (2.7)% LTM annual subscriber revenue retention rate 92.7% 90.0% 270 bps Image collection (millions) 582 544 6.9% Video collection (millions) 34 29 16.3% LTM video attachment rate 16.7% 14.0% 270 bps ________________________ 1 Excludes downloads from Editorial Subscriptions, Editorial feeds and certain API structured deals, including bulk unlimited deals. Excludes downloads related to an agreement signed with Amazon, as the magnitude of the potential download volume over the deal term could result in significant fluctuations in this metric without corresponding impact to revenue in the same period. Total purchasing customers Total purchasing customers is defined as the count of total customers who made a purchase within the reporting period based on billed revenue. This metric provides management and investors with an understanding of both how we are growing our purchasing customer base and combined with revenue, an understanding of our average revenue per purchasing customer. This metric differs from total customers, which is a count of all downloading customers, irrespective of whether they made a purchase in the period. Total purchasing customers decreased 7.9% to 708 thousand for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2025, compared to 769 thousand for the LTM ended March 31, 2024. This decrease can be attributed to lower ALC transaction volume primarily due to the ongoing shift of our customers to more committed annual subscription products. Importantly, the shift into more committed solutions continues to have a positive impact on annual revenue per purchasing customer, which grew by 13.2% to $1,329 for the LTM ended March 31, 2025 from $1,174 for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2024. Total active annual subscribers Total active annual subscribers is the count of customers who were on an annual subscription product during the LTM reporting period. This metric provides management and investors with visibility into the rate at which we are growing our annual subscriber base and is highly correlated to the percentage of our revenue that comes from annual subscription products. Total active annual subscribers increased 21.2% to 318 thousand for the LTM ended March 31, 2025 compared to 262 thousand for the LTM ended March 31, 2024. Expanded e-commerce subscriptions including iStock and Unsplash+ subscriptions primarily drove growth. This reflects our strategic focus on subscription offerings to provide comprehensive content solutions. A significant portion of the annual subscribers were new customers, with many coming from our growth expansion markets and a substantial number of new subscribers also coming from our core markets. We have a strong pipeline of new customers as demand for visual content remains strong, while also helping existing customers evolve with their expanding visual narratives. 32 Table of Contents Paid download volume Paid download volume is a count of the number of paid downloads by our customers in the reported period. This metric informs both management and investors about the volumes at which customers are engaging with our content over time. Paid download volume was down 2.7% to 93 million downloads for LTM ended March 31, 2025 compared to 95 million for the LTM ended March 31, 2024. We believe that the reasonably steady demand in paid download volumes during the LTM period that had a myriad of macro-economic challenges, is a strong outcome and signals that our content continues to meet our customers evolving needs. Annual subscriber revenue retention rate The annual subscriber revenue retention rate calculates retention of total revenue for customers on annual subscription products, comparing the customers total booked revenue (inclusive of spend for annual subscription and non-annual subscription products) in the LTM period to the prior twelve month period. For example, LTM annual subscriber booked revenue (the amount of revenue invoiced to customers) for the period ended March 31, 2025 was 92.7% of revenue from these customers in the period ended March 31, 2024. The revenue retention rate informs management and investors on the degree to which we are maintaining or growing revenue from our annual subscriber base. As we continue to focus on growing subscriptions as percentage of total revenue, revenue retention for these customers is a key driver of the predictability of our financial model with respect to revenue. The annual subscriber revenue retention rate increased to 92.7% for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2025 from 90.0% over the twelve months ended March 31, 2024. Our strong revenue retention rates are a testament to the significant value that our subscription products deliver to our customers. This strong performance underscores the trust and satisfaction our customers have in our offerings, highlighting the effectiveness and enduring appeal of our solutions in meeting their needs over time. Image and Video collection Image and Video collection is a count of the total images and videos in our content library as of the reporting date. Management and investors can view growth in the size, both depth and breadth, of the content library as an indication of our ability to continue to expand our content offering with premium, high quality, contemporary content to meet the evolving needs of our customers. Image and video collections increased as of March 31, 2025 compared to March 31, 2024. Our image collection grew 6.9% to 582 million images as of March 31, 2025 compared to 544 million as of March 31, 2024. Our video collection grew 16.3% to 34 million videos over the same period. Video attachment rate Video attachment rate is a measure of the percentage of total paid customer downloaders who are video downloaders. Customer demand for video content continues to grow and represents a significant opportunity for revenue growth for Getty Images. The video attachment rate provides management and investors with an indication of our customers level of engagement with our video content offering. Our expansion of video across our subscription products is focused on further increasing the attachment rate over time. The video attachment rate increased to 16.7% for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2025 from 14.0% for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2024. The video attachment rate provides management and investors with an indication of our customers level of engagement with our video content offering. Our expansion of video across our subscription products is focused on further increasing the attachment rate over time. The increase in video attachment rates reflects increased customer awareness of our video offering, improved search and site prominence for video content, and upselling of video into subscriptions. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Currency Neutral Revenue Currency Neutral revenue changes (expressed as a percentage) exclude the impact of fluctuating foreign currency values pegged to the U.S. dollar between comparative periods by translating all local currencies using the current period exchange rates. We consistently apply this approach to revenue for all countries where the functional currency is not the 33 Table of Contents U.S. dollar. We believe that this presentation provides useful supplemental information regarding changes in our revenue not driven by fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies. Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, and Adjusted EBITDA less Capex We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, equity-based compensation, other operating expenses-net, and certain other expenses not directly related to the core operations of our business. A reconciliation is provided below to the most comparable financial measure stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We define Adjusted EBITDA Margin as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to revenue. (In thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net (loss) income $ (102,572) $ 13,587 Add/(less) non-GAAP adjustments: Depreciation and amortization 15,513 14,894 Other operating expense net 18,402 3,128 Loss on litigation 4,343 2,022 Interest expense 32,675 32,724 Fair value adjustments, foreign exchange and other non-operating (income) expense 1 27,172 (16,478) Loss on extinguishment of debt 5,474 Income tax expense 64,593 11,201 Equity-based compensation expense, net of capitalization 4,525 9,134 Adjusted EBITDA 70,125 70,212 Capex 15,706 14,452 Adjusted EBITDA less capex 54,419 55,760 Net (loss) income margin (45.8) % 6.1 % Adjusted EBITDA margin 31.3 % 31.6 % _____________________ (1) Fair value adjustments for our swaps and foreign currency exchange contracts, foreign exchange gains (losses) and other insignificant non-operating related expenses (income). Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings Per Share Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings Per Share are non-GAAP financial measures that we use to provide a more meaningful comparison of our core operating results from period to period. These measures exclude the impact of certain items that we believe are not indicative of our core operating performance. These adjustments include, but are not limited to, foreign exchange gains (losses), net and other non-recurring items. The following table reconciles Net Income 34 Table of Contents (Loss) and Earnings (Loss) Per Share, the most directly comparable GAAP measures, to Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Earnings (Loss) Per Share for the periods presented: (In thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net (loss) income $ (102,572) $ 13,587 Add/(less) non-GAAP adjustments: Equity-based compensation expense 4,525 9,134 Tax effect of equity-based compensation expense1 (1,153) (2,335) Loss on litigation 4,343 2,022 Tax effect of loss on litigation, net of recovery1 (1,130) (526) Foreign exchange 25,078 (16,422) Tax effect on foreign exchange (loss) gain net1 (7,120) 4,382 Acquisition related costs 18,043 1,100 Tax effect of acquisition related costs1 (4,694) (286) Loss on debt extinguishment and expensed financing costs 8,651 Tax effect of loss on debt extinguishment and expensed financing costs1 (2,250) Adjusted net income (loss) $ (58,279) $ 10,656 Earnings per share: Diluted earnings per share $ (0.25) $ 0.03 Adjusted diluted earnings per share $ (0.14) $ 0.03 Weighted average diluted shares 412,472,878 414,893,486 1 Statutory tax rates used to calculate the tax effect of the adjustments. Critical Accounting Policies A description of our critical accounting policies that involve significant management judgment appears in our 2024 Form 10-K, under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical accounting policies and estimates. Our accounting policies are also described in Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2024 Form 10-K and in Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our interim condensed consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2025. We believe our most critical accounting policies include revenue recognition, accrued litigation reserves, and accounting for income taxes.