Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial and Results of Operations Merger Agreement with Shutterstock. 3 Table of Contents Product Offerings Our comprehensive product offering is designed to address the full spectrum of customers visual content needs. Target Customer Enterprises SMBs SMBs, Prosumers, Pro & Semipro Content Creators Asset Type Premium Creative & Editorial (Stills, Music, Video, and Generative AI) Budget-Conscious Stills, Video, and Generative AI Free & Low-Cost Creative Stills Asset Rights Uncapped Indemnification and Rights Customized to Customer Needs Capped Indemnification With Option for More Protection Capped / No Indemnification Go-to-Market Premium Account Management & Dedicated Support Primarily E-Commerce and Online Service Primarily E-Commerce and Online Service Plans and Pricing A La Carte, Subscriptions and Custom Assignments A La Carte and Subscriptions Free (Ads), Subscriptions, Ad-supported and Paid API Integrations Getty Images is our premium offering focused on corporate, agency, and media customers, serving the full breadth of our customers content needs by combining the highest quality content with premium support and customized rights and protections. Customers can purchase on an a la carte basis and through subscriptions, including our Premium Access product, where we enable customers to access our complete library of creative and editorial images and video and music, via one website and one set of terms. Our assignment capabilities along with our Custom Content offering, a subscription product that leverages Getty Images global network of photographers and videographers to create customized and exclusive project-specific content, enables Getty Images to produce cost-effective content to meet the specific needs of customers. In the fall of 2023, we launched Generative AI by Getty Images in partnership with NVIDIA Corporation (NVIDIA), which is designed to be a commercially safe AI image generation service that is trained exclusively with Getty Images creative content. 4 Table of Contents iStock is our value offering of creative stills and videos, which provides a significant volume of exclusive image and video content to small to medium sized businesses, furnishing them with a powerful and cost-efficient means to produce and maintain their visual narrative. Customers can purchase on an a la carte basis and through a range of monthly and annual subscription options. Customers can also use Generative AI by iStock to create, ready to use AI generated content that is designed to be commercially safe and is trained exclusively with Getty Images creative content. Unsplash is a widely accessed, creative stills offering serving the fast-growing and broad-based creator economy ranging from prosumers and semi-professional creators to full time creative professionals working at corporations and agencies. Customers can purchase an unlimited subscription, which includes premium content that has specific legal protections, or download from the millions of free images. In addition to our websites, customers and partners can access and integrate our content, metadata, and search capabilities into their workflows via our APIs, such as through Canva, and through a range of mobile apps and plugins, including Adobe Creative Cloud, WordPress, and other publishing and workflow platforms. In recent years, we have shifted revenues toward subscription products including annual subscription products to drive revenue growth and durability. As of December 31, 2024, annual subscriptions represented more than half of total revenue. We offer a complete range of subscription products on our Getty Images, iStock and Unsplash websites. Our Premium Access subscription offers all of Getty Images Creative and Editorial image and video content and music in one subscription. We similarly continue to see more subscription adoption in e-commerce through our iStock subscription, which includes images video and music, and Unsplash+, which is an unlimited image-only subscription. In all cases, our annual subscriptions provide greater customer and revenue visibility and upside through expanded consumption and ongoing cross-sell and upsell opportunities via our dedicated Customer Success team. Content & Services While we go to market through our Getty Images, iStock, and Unsplash brands, we categorize our content and services into three categories Creative, Editorial and Other. Creative: Creative is comprised of royalty-free (RF) photos, illustrations, vectors, videos, and generative AI-services that are released for commercial use and cover a wide variety of commercial, conceptual, and contemporary subjects, including lifestyle, business, science, health, wellness, beauty, sports, transportation and travel. This content is available for immediate use by a wide range of customers with depth, breadth, and quality, allowing our customers to produce impactful websites, digital media, social media, marketing campaigns, corporate collateral, textbooks, movies, television and online video content relevant to their target geographies and audiences. We primarily source Creative content from a broad network of professional, semi-professional, and amateur creators, many exclusive to Getty Images. We have a global creative insights team dedicated to providing briefing and art direction to our exclusive contributor community. Creative represents 58.9%, 63.1% and 63.2% of our revenue of which 56.0%, 52.2%1 and 46.5%1 is generated through our annual subscription products, for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Annual Subscription products include products and subscriptions with a duration of 12 months or longer, Unsplash API, and Custom Content. Editorial: Editorial is comprised of photos and videos covering the world of entertainment, sports and news. We combine contemporary coverage of events around the globe with one of the largest privately held archives globally with access to images spanning all the way back to the beginning of photography. We invest in a dedicated editorial team which includes 110 staff photographers and videographers to generate our own coverage in addition to coverage from our network of content partners. Editorial represents 36.8%, 35.0% and 35.2% of our revenue, of which 53.7%, 53.3% and 52.1% is generated through our annual subscription products, for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Annual Subscription products include subscriptions with a duration of 12 months or longer. Other: Other represents 4.3%, 1.9%, and 1.6% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. This includes music licensing, digital asset management, distribution services, print sales, and data access and/or licensing. 1Prior year percentage has been restated to conform to the current year presentation. 5 Table of Contents With a consistently differentiated, authentic and high-quality content offering at our core, we have a rich history of embracing disruption and innovation with regard to how that content is packaged, accessed, licensed, created and distributed to an evolving universe of customers. Comprehensive Premium Product Offering Our differentiated, authentic and high-quality content offering is generated through: A growing base of more than 583,000 contributors, of which over 81,000 are exclusive to Getty Images. Over 75 exclusive editorial content partners, such as AFP, Disney, Globo, ITN, Bloomberg, BBC Studios, CBS, The Boston Globe, Fairfax Media, NBC News Archives and Sky News, who rely upon Getty Images to manage and license their content and Formula One, NBA, NHL, MLB, NASCAR, FIFA and International Olympic Committee, who, in addition to distributing content from their events through Getty Images, grant us unique commercial rights with event and content access. Nearly 400 dedicated staff content experts across creative and editorial who guide and contribute to the creation of over 11 million new visual assets per quarter and have been recognized with more than 1,500 major industry awards including the 2022 Pulitzer Prize for Breaking News Photography, World Press Photo, Picture of the Year International, Sony World Photography Awards, White House Photographer of the Year, The Lucie Awards, Visa dOr, Ville de Perpignan Remi Ochlik, UK Picture Guild Awards, Press Photographer of the Year, Sports Photographer of the Year and Creative Review Photography Annual. A unique comprehensive visual archival collection covering a broad range of geographies, time periods and content categories such as news, sport, celebrity, music and fashion. Collectively, these represent a growing library of over 604 million total assets that delivers unmatched depth, breadth, and quality to meet the expanding needs of our growing customer base. For more information, see Our Content Contributors below. Customers Our customers are in the categories of corporate, agency and media. For the year ended December 31, 2024, corporations, media, and agency customers contributed approximately 56%, 29%, and 15%, of revenue, respectively. Through our brands Getty Images, iStock and Unsplash, we reach customers from the largest enterprises to the smallest businesses and individual creators. In addition, we maintain deep integrations with internet platforms, ensuring broad access to our content across the creative economy. Getty Images is privileged to work with the worlds leading companies every day. In 2024 and 2023, over 80% of our booked revenues were from customers that have a tenure of 10 years or more. In addition to maintaining strong revenue from highly tenured customers, we added more than 385,000 new customers during the year ended December 31, 2024. We also have strong revenue diversification. For the year ended December 31, 2024, our top ten customers contributed less than 7% of our booked revenue. Proprietary Platform & Infrastructure The Getty Images and iStock websites and related systems are on a unified, global, cloud-based platform. We source and store our content on a common, scalable, and proprietary rights and content management system that supports all content types and categories. This platform enables customers to search, select, license, and download content from our websites and supports our centralized sales order processing, customer database management, finance, and accounting. We believe that our unified platform allows for resource efficiency and its scalability, reliability and flexibility allow us to service customers in any geography, handle a variety of visual content and address changing customer demands. From this unified platform, we benefit from a comprehensive view into customer behavior and needs, which allows us to effectively evolve our content offering, services and proprietary search algorithms to deliver the unique insights to our customers. We operate multiple websites which are available on a global basis, maintained in 23 different languages, localized for their respective markets, and which provide for e-commerce transactions in 34 local currencies. 6 Table of Contents Back-end integration across the Getty Images and iStock websites and brands allows for efficiency of use by customers, enabled by natural language processing and machine learning to understand the context and meaning behind a users search query, along with additional search capabilities that are enabled by patented search technology that attaches metadata such as captions, keywords, and tags to our content. Our metadata is translated by proprietary and patented controlled vocabularies into multiple languages. Dynamic image placement algorithms present the most relevant content to customers based on features such as customer location, search and license history, and the businesses type. We continuously invest in our digital platform to improve our customer experience and functionality through improvements in search engine optimization and marketing analytics, dynamic image placement algorithms, customer support and partner/API access, use of image recognition technologies, and development license models that adapt to customer needs and behaviors. In 2023, we partnered with NVIDIA to train and deliver a monetizable, generative AI image tool, enhancing our offerings to our customers.It is trained exclusively on Getty Images creative content and data and provides customers with images designed to be commercially safe, while compensating contributors for the use of their copyrighted works as training data. Marketing Since 2019, we have improved our marketing efficiency, which has driven acceleration in our new customer growth, with new customers per million Dollars of digital marketing spend increasing by more than 30% in 2024 when compared to 2019, driven by marketing efficiency which helps drive new customer acquisition. We shifted our marketing mix to take advantage of free website traffic through affiliate partnerships, expanded our geographic investment, invested in search engine optimization, and implemented a rigorous data-driven e-commerce business. These steps have improved our marketing returns, resulting in decreased customer acquisition cost (since 2019 down by over 20% to $133 in 2024) and improved revenue opportunity and customer lifetime value. Our Business Transformation Over the past several years, we have reoriented our strategy and made significant business investments. Key initiatives implemented include: Unification and migration of our end-to-end platform to the cloud. Investment in best-in-class customer relationship management tools and technologies such as Salesforce.com. Transition of a significant share of our business to a differentiated subscription offering with strong retention characteristics. Successfully exited legacy declining products (Creative Rights Managed, Unauthorized Use and Thinkstock) to simplify our offering, reduce customer friction, and to better focus our resources. Invested in search engine optimization and altered our digital marketing deployment to accelerate new customer growth through our iStock brand. Launched our Custom Content offering to allow customers to efficiently secure brand and product- specific imagery through our global contributor network. Restructured our Sales, Customer Success Management, and Customer Service functions to take advantage of our global scale to reduce costs and improve service levels. Acquired Unsplash, monetized API offerings on Unsplash and launched Unsplash+, the unlimited subscription model, all of which allows us to tap into the growth of the creator economy long tail. Partnership with leading technology companies, including NVIDIA, Bria AI and Runway, to develop image and video generative AI models and services designed to be commercially safe that compensate creators on a recurring basis for the use of their content as training data. Extended search experience to accept natural language queries, allowing customers to be more expressive in their searches and, in turn, we better understand their intent and serve content that meets their needs. Continued to deleverage our balance sheet, including the principal payment in August 2022 of $300 million and further voluntary payments totaling $57.8 million in 2024 under our Credit Facility, and recently refinanced our Term Loans in the first quarter of 2025. Please refer to Note 23 Subsequent Events in our consolidated financial statements for more discussion on our debt refinance. We believe that our transformation and investments, together with the changes driving industry growth, set the stage for our next phase of growth. 7 Table of Contents Growth Strategies We believe we are well-positioned to continue generating revenue and strong cash flow by capitalizing on the increasing demand for visual content driven by long-term trends through our differentiated end-to-end content offering, our established brands and corresponding market coverage, and our strong value proposition to customers and content providers. We anticipate our future growth to be driven by the following strategies: Capturing growth within the Corporate Market: The corporate market has been a clear and steady source of growth over the last several years and we believe a large corporate market opportunity still exists. To capture this opportunity, we realigned our sales force and their incentives to target further penetration and upsell of the corporate market. Furthermore, we increased our customer service capabilities and resources against the segment and launched new and upgraded products to better meet corporate needs. Through our Custom Content product, we are able to leverage our contributor network to deliver budget-friendly custom photos, illustrations and videos to customers. Through continued investment and focus, our management believes that it can further accelerate growth across the corporate segment. Accelerate our penetration across high-growth geographies: We are focused on deepening our international reach by investing in digital marketing, search engine optimization and further localization of our services, offerings and content in geographies where we are underpenetrated. We believe we are well-positioned from a brand, content, and product perspective across 23 languages and 34 currencies to capture an increased share of these attractive, underpenetrated market opportunities. Continued emphasis on subscription offerings: Annual subscription revenues now comprise more than half our total revenue, and we expect to further increase penetration over time through an emphasis on our e-commerce offerings and continued growth of our larger subscription offerings. Annual Subscription Revenue 1 1Represents annual subscription product revenue as a percentage of total revenue (excluding certain retired products). Continue to grow video consumption: The video attachment rate, a measure of the percentage of total paid customer downloaders who are video downloaders, increased to 16.5% for the year ended December 31, 2024 from 14.1% for the year ended December 31, 2023. However, approximately 30% of Getty Images and 14% of iStock customers 8 Table of Contents purchase video. We expect more customers to use video in the future, which we believe creates a stickier customer that potentially consumes and spends more on our platform. Video Attachment Rate 1 1Attachment is calculated as % of downloaders who downloaded video from all offerings (inclusion of subscription and non-subscription products). Increase wallet share within existing customer base: We expect to increase wallet share with existing customers by upselling into larger subscription products with increased download caps and including video. Additionally, we can cross sell into products such as Generative AI, Custom Content, music, and Media Manager, our digital asset management product. These offerings drive significant increases in Average Annual Revenue per User (ARPU) from our customers and can drive high customer retention. Monetize and expand reach into growing long-tail creator economy: We believe our acquisition of Unsplash has strengthened our position in the rapidly growing creative long-tail economy. Unsplash attracts more than 16 million visitors per month and has over 27,000 API integrations. Traffic has grown significantly in the last three years, with monthly image downloads averaging more than 96 million, which we believe reflects the significant opportunity across the long tail creator economy. In addition to growing the existing advertising revenue streams, we are monetizing existing API integrations through licensing fees and Unsplash+, an unlimited subscription that launched October 2022, that includes premium content (with corresponding license protections) to Unsplash users. Opportunities for AI, data and insights: We have partnered with leading AI innovators such as NVIDIA, Bria AI and Runway, to develop generative AI models that are designed to deliver commercially safe image and video generation and editing services.As part of these efforts, in 2023 we launched Generative AI by Getty Images and in early 2024 Generative AI by iStock, which are designed to be commercially-safe AI text to image generation services, available on gettyimages.com and istock.com. We have and will continue to leverage Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning capabilities to improve the relevance and effectiveness of our imagery, our search efficiency and enable image editing. We are continuously investing to bring unique capabilities and insights to increase customer stickiness and to drive new revenue streams. Getty Images also licenses the use of its visual assets and associated metadata to customers in connection with the development of artificial intelligence and machine learning tools. Pursue accretive and strategic acquisitions: We have a successful track record of executing and integrating acquisitions. We have been able to leverage our content, brands, and large customer base to enter related, but adjacent markets to achieve efficiencies and accelerate growth. Our Content Contributors The content we license to our customers is sourced from more than 583,000 photographers, videographers, illustrators, and image partners from almost every country in the world. We do not rely on any single individual or group of suppliers to meet our content supply needs. Content sourced from any single content supplier accounted for no more than 3% of revenue in the year ended December 31, 2024. As of December 31, 2024, we owned or licensed more than 604 million images and videos. 9 Table of Contents We have 110 staff photographers and videographers and over 81,000 exclusive contributors, which includes premium content partners. These exclusive relationships allow for transparent information and the sharing of research and insights with contributors. Nearly 70% of our revenue was generated from exclusive content during 2024 highlighting customer demand for high quality, differentiated content in a world with nearly infinite visual content. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we paid nearly 220 million in royalties to our content contributors, which includes content partners. Independent contributors Independent contributors typically fund their own production costs and retain copyright ownership of their content but enter contracts with Getty Images granting global distribution and pricing rights, often on an exclusive basis. These content sourcing agreements also provide representations and warranties by content suppliers as to the copyrights and other intellectual property rights in the content, including representations as to the released nature of the content, if relevant. Image Partners Image partners are third-party companies that license their collection of content through us. We generally act as our image partners primary or exclusive distribution channel, enabling us to commercialize their editorial coverage of news, entertainment and sporting events and their fully released creative content. Image Partners provide both their wholly-owned and third-party contributor content to us for license through our extensive global network. Staff and Freelance photographers/videographers We have 110 full-time staff photographers and videographers, who supply Editorial photos and video content across news, sports, and entertainment. These staff professionals are award-winning experts in their fields and are employed by Getty Images. For most staff-produced content, we pay very limited, if any, royalties. We also utilize our global network of freelance photographers to cover events. In many cases, we own the resulting copyright and pay no royalties as these photographers are paid a set rate to shoot the event. Archive Getty Images maintains one of the largest and best privately-owned photographic archives in the world with over 150 million images across geographies, time periods and verticals. Additionally, we exclusively represent and maintain unique archives such as Hulton, Bettman, Sygma and Gamma. These key collections often hold historical significance and are irreplaceable. We believe they are a key differentiator versus competitors. Competition The market for digital content and related services is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large established companies to emerging start-ups across different industries. Our competitors include: online marketplaces and traditional stock content suppliers of current and archival creative and editorial imagery and stock video; specialized visual content companies in specific geographic regions; providers of free images, music and video and related tools; websites specializing in image search, recognition, discovery and consumption; websites that host and store images, art and other related products; those providers of visual content creation and editing tools that include integrated stock content in their product or software as a service offering; providers of cloud-based digital asset management tools; social networking and social media services; generative AI-services; and freelancers, commissioned photographers and photography agencies. There are also a very large number of small stock photography and video agencies, image content aggregators and individual photographers throughout the world with whom we compete. We also compete for content contributors on the basis of several similar factors including ease and speed of the upload and content review process; the volume of customers who license their submitted content; contributor commission models and practices; the degree to which contributors are protected from legal risk; brand recognition and reputation; the effective use of technology; the global nature of our interfaces; and customer service. Additionally, we compete with in-house or self-created content. We believe our principal competitors for creative content include bundled offerings (e.g., Canva, Adobe), pre-shot digital content providers (e.g., Shutterstock, 123RF, Dreamstime and AdobeStock), freelancer networks (e.g., Fiverr) and GenAI (e.g. Midjourney, Dall-E, Stable Diffusion) and our principal competitors for editorial content include the Associated Press and Reuters. 10 Table of Contents Intellectual Property A significant portion of the content that we distribute is licensed to us from individual photographers and videographers and image partners. Content suppliers typically prefer to retain copyright ownership of their work and, as a result, copyright to content remains with the artists in most cases, even while we maintain the right to market, display, distribute and license the imagery, illustration or video on their behalf, globally. We own the copyrights to imagery and video produced by staff photographers as well as any created on a work-for-hire basis, and to imagery and video acquired from third parties. We also own numerous trademarks and have the rights to corresponding internet domain names such as Getty Images (www.gettyimages.com), iStock (www.istock.com) and Unsplash (www.unsplash.com), which are important to the business and have significant value. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained, and they have not been found to have become generic. We have successfully recovered domain names that include infringing trademarks in the past and intend to continue to enforce our rights in the future. Although we own the Getty Trademarks, in certain specified scenarios, Getty Investments LLC (Getty Investments) has the option to acquire, for a nominal sum, all rights to the Getty Trademarks. See Item 1A. Risk factorsOperational risks relating to our businessWe may lose the right to use Getty Images trademarks in the event we experience a change of control. We also own copyrights, including certain content on our web properties, publications and designs, as well as patents, including with respect to our display systems and search capabilities. These intellectual property rights are important to our business and marketing efforts. The duration of the protection afforded to our intellectual property depends on the type of property in question, the laws and regulations of the relevant jurisdiction and the terms of our license agreements with others. We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state, and common law rights, including registration, in the United States and applicable foreign jurisdictions, as well as contractual restrictions. We enforce and protect our intellectual property rights through litigation from time to time, and by controlling access to our intellectual property and proprietary technology, in part, by entering into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors, and vendors. In this way, we have historically chosen to protect our software and other technological intellectual property as trade secrets. We further control the use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property through provisions in our websites terms of use and license agreements. Human Capital Our Culture and Values At the core of our business is a mission to move the world. We pursue our mission through our images, videos, and illustrations, which seek to inform, drive debate, entertain, inspire, and challenge biases. By capturing powerful imagery, we strive to make an impact for today and for posterity. Our imagery moves hearts and minds across the globe, shifting perceptions and powering commerce and ideas at the same time. Beyond our mission, we also hold ourselves accountable to a shared culture which is customer-focused, results-driven, team-oriented and which maximizes the contribution of our employees toward our shared goals (our Leadership Principles): We are trustworthy, transparent and honest. We always raise the bar. We collectively bring solutions. We care, are kind, courteous and respectful. We are inclusive of different voices, perspectives and experiences. We are one Getty Images with no silos. We deliver on our commitments and commercial goals. We put the customer at the heart of everything we do. We reject biased behavior and discrimination. Employees As of December 31, 2024, we had almost 1,700 employees, of which approximately 61% were located in the Americas region, approximately 31% in the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region, and the remainder in the Asia-Pacific region. Some of our employees in Brazil, Germany, France and Spain are subject to collective bargaining agreements that set minimum salaries, benefits, working conditions and/or termination requirements. We consider our employee relations to be good. See Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe loss of key personnel, an inability to attract and retain 11 Table of Contents additional personnel or difficulties in the integration of new members of our management team into our Company could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. Diversity and Inclusion Our vision for our culture is one that enables individuals to come to work as themselves, be treated with respect and be given equal opportunities, and will ensure their perspectives and experiences are included in our decision making. We are committed to building a community and environment in which all can thrive. How we hire, develop, and compensate at all levels and in all departments, including our global network of content creators, must be free from bias. We are committed to supporting our employees, where all experiences and backgrounds are respected and where everyone comes together to produce amazing imagery, support our customers and impact the world. We are committed to eradicating and dismantling barriers that prevent individuals from being seen, heard, valued and respected for their full authentic selves. We are committed to a work environment that is a safe and inclusive space for all individuals. We are committed to open dialogue and provide resources and training in support of our collective learning journey. We are committed to providing authentic and positive depiction across all communities. Employee Opportunity Our more than 1,700 employees come from more than 32 countries, and include working parents, military spouses and veterans. They bring a wide berth of perspectives and experiences to drive our mission. We seek to ensure our employees are recognized and rewarded, feel empowered and inspired as they live out our Leadership Principles every day. We foster an environment of transparency, always seeking to learn and improve our employee experience. We do this by engaging with employees in regular feedback loops, including live discussions and a bi-annual engagement survey, and that feedback then provides insights that fuel our employee programming from learning and development to our total rewards approaches and everything in between. Internationally, we customize our compensation and benefits to remain competitive and responsive to our employees needs, including global mental health and well-being programs. We provide many opportunities for learning and growth, cultivating a culture of curiosity. These include formal and informal mentoring opportunities, high potential programming, leadership learning, content development hours to inform on our product offerings, and tailored learning across all functions. We believe in providing learning across various platforms and media as well, recognizing the learning differences of our employees. We are defining a future of work that is more flexible, digital, and purposeful. Our approach aims to empower employees to do their best work in the setting that works for them, supporting employee flexibility while balancing business needs. Government Regulation The legal environment of the internet is evolving rapidly throughout the world. Numerous laws and regulations have been adopted at the national and state level in the United States and across the globe that could have an impact on our business. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, the following: The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which regulates digital material and created updated copyright laws to address the unique challenges of regulating the use of digital content. The Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market, which regulates a marketplace for copyright in the European Union. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 and similar laws adopted by a number of states, which regulate the format, functionality and distribution of commercial solicitation e-mails, create criminal penalties for unmarked sexually-oriented material, and control other online marketing practices. The Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act and the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to End Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003, which regulate the collection or use of information, and restrict 12 Table of Contents the distribution of certain materials, as related to certain protected age groups. In addition, the Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998 provides for reporting and other obligations by online service providers in the area of child pornography. The Federal Trade Commission Act and numerous state mini-FTC acts, which bar deceptive and unfair trade practices, including in the contexts of online advertising and representations made in privacy policies and other online representations. The European Union General Data Protection Regulation and UK Data Protection Act, which regulate how we can collect and process the personal data of, primarily, European Union and UK residents. The California Consumer Privacy Act (as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act, together the CCPA) which regulates how we can collect and process the personal data of California residents. The Colorado Privacy Act (CPA), which regulates how we can collect and process the personal data of Colorado residents. The Connecticut Data Privacy Act (CTDPA), which regulates how we can collect and process the personal data of Connecticut residents. The Florida Digital Bill of Rights (FDBR), which regulates how we can collect and process the personal data of Florida residents. The Montana Consumer Data Privacy Act (MTCDPA), which regulates how we can collect and process the personal data of Montana residents. The Oregon Consumer Privacy Act (OCPA), which regulates how we can collect and process the personal data of Oregon residents. The Texas Data Privacy and Security Act (TDPSA), which regulates how we can collect and process the personal data of Texas residents. The Utah Consumer Privacy Act (UCPA), which regulates how we can collect and process the personal data of Utah residents. The Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act (VACDPA), which regulates how we can collect and process the personal data of Virginia residents. The Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act (BIPA), which regulates how we can collect and process biometric identifiers of Illinois residents. The Texas Capture or Use of Biometric Identifier Act (CUBI), which regulates how we can collect and process biometric identifiers of Texas residents. The Washington Biometric Privacy Law (H.B. 1493), which regulates how we can collect and process biometric identifiers of Washington residents. The E.U. AI Act, and the laws, rules and regulations directly relating to the use of AI or extending the application of existing laws, rules and regulations to AI systems and outputs adopted by U.S. states, including Colorado and California. In particular, we are subject to U.S. federal and state, and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection as well as foreign, federal and state regulation. In certain instances, we may also have obligations under several U.S. state data breach or breach notification laws. Foreign data protection, privacy, content regulation, consumer protection, and other laws and regulations can be more restrictive than those in the United States and often have extraterritorial application, and the interpretation and application of these laws are continuously evolving and remain in flux. See Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe collect, store, process, transmit and use personal information, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, information security and data protection in many jurisdictions. Any cybersecurity breaches or our actual or perceived failure to comply with such legal obligations by us, or by our third-party service providers or partners, could harm our business. In addition, from a taxation perspective, there are applicable and potential government regulatory matters that may impact us. In particular, certain provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the TCJA) have had and will continue to have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations. The TCJA continues to be subject to further regulatory interpretation and technical corrections by the U.S. Treasury Department and the I.R.S. and therefore, the full impact of the TCJA on our tax provision may continue to evolve. Further, we continue to remain subject to uncertainty related to foreign jurisdictions potential reactions to the TCJA, as well as evolving regulatory views and legislation regarding taxation of e-commerce businesses such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Developments Base Erosion and Profit Shifting proposals and other country specific digital tax initiatives. As these and other tax laws and related regulations continue to evolve, our financial results could prospectively be materially impacted. See Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur operations may expose us to greater than anticipated income and transaction tax liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Seasonality Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year as a result of a variety of factors, including as a result of major sporting events, world events or otherwise. Our quarterly and annual results may also reflect the effects of intra-period trends in customer behavior. Because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from repeat customers who have purchased subscription plans, our revenues have historically been less susceptible to quarterly seasonality. In addition, expenditures on content by customers tend to be discretionary in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions, the economic prospects of specific industries, budgeting constraints, buying patterns and a variety of other factors, many of which are outside our control. As a result of these and other factors, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indicators of our future operating performance. Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) as well as proxy and information statements and other information that we file, are available free of charge through our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our internet website and the content contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains an internet website at www.sec.gov, which also contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC. We routinely post important information on our website, www.gettyimages.com. We also may use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this document. Copies of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 may also be obtained by stockholders without charge upon written request to: Getty Images Holdings, Inc., 605 5th Ave S., Suite 400, Seattle, Washington 98104, ATTN: Investor Relations. Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, including the matters addressed under the heading Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in this Form 10-K before investing in our securities. The risk factors described below disclose both material and other risks, and are not intended to be exhaustive and are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods or are not identified because they are generally common to businesses. Summary Risk Factors Operational Risks Related to Our Business Our inability to attract new and retain existing and repeat customers; Our inability to offer relevant, quality and diversity of content to satisfy customer needs; The intense competition we face could reduce our revenues, margins and operating results; Our inability to successfully execute our business strategy; Risks resulting from increased costs incurred in implementing our business strategy; Our inability to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting; Losing the right to use the Getty Images trademark; Our inability to adapt to industry change; The increasing use of AI applications such as generative AI technologies that may result in harm to our brand, reputation, business, or intellectual property; 14 Table of Contents Failure to develop, market, sell or enhance new or existing products and services; Our failure to successfully expand into new international markets; Risks resulting from actions by governments to restrict access to our services; Negative impacts of currency fluctuations; Our inability to adequately maintain, adapt and upgrade our websites and technology systems to ingest and deliver higher quantities of new content; Technological interruptions that impair access to our websites or the efficiency of our websites and technology systems damaging our reputation and brand; Our failure to protect the proprietary information of our customers and our networks against cybersecurity breaches; Our inability to acquire or integrate new content and product lines; Potential for goodwill or other intangible asset impairment charges; Our inability to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms; Our incurrence of debt, including related interest rate volatility and rising interest costs, which could have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position; The impact of worldwide economic, political and social conditions on our business; Risks Related to Personnel The loss of key personnel, an inability to attract and retain additional personnel or difficulties in the integration of new members of our management team into our business; Risks related to our use of independent contractors; Our inability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights; Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Confidential Information Infringement on intellectual property rights of third parties; Risks associated with the use of open source software; Risks associated with scraping our content for use in training AI models and services; Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters An increase in government regulation of the industries and markets in which we operate, including with respect to the internet, e-commerce and AI; Risks associated with public disclosure regulations and expectations, including with respect to environmental, social and governance matters; Exposure to greater than anticipated income and transaction tax liabilities; Our inability to comply with privacy, information security and data protection regulations and legal obligations; Payment-related risks that may result in higher operating costs or the inability to process payments; Complaints, judgments or litigation that may adversely affect our business and reputation; Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Risks related to our status as an emerging growth company and smaller reporting company; Class A common stock price volatility; Lack of an active trading market for our Class A common stock; Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline; Delaware law and provisions of our organizational documents that make a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our Class A common stock; Forum selection provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation; Our inability to pay dividends for the foreseeable future; Additional issuances of shares of Class A common stock or other equity securities without shareholder approval; Risks Related to the Proposed Merger (the Merger) with Shutterstock Our inability to complete the Merger, or to complete the Merger in a timely manner, including as a result of the failure to obtain required regulatory approvals or the failure to satisfy the other conditions to the 15 Table of Contents consummation of the Merger could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; Failure to complete the Merger could trigger the payment of a termination fee, and, whether or not the Merger is consummated, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs, fees and expenses relating to professional services and transaction fees; Uncertainties associated with the Merger may cause us to lose key customers or suppliers and make it more difficult to retain and hire key personnel, and the Merger may disrupt our current plans and operations or divert managements attention from our ongoing business; We will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger is pending. The proposed Merger and the integration of both companies may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger; The market price of the combined company's common stock following the anticipated closing of the Merger may be affected by factors different from those that historically have affected or currently affect our common stock; We may be unable to retain personnel successfully while the Merger is pending or after the Merger is completed; We may become subject to lawsuits relating to the Merger, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results; Because the exchange ratio in the Merger Agreement is fixed and because the market price of Shutterstock and our Class A common stock will fluctuate prior to the completion of the Merger, we cannot be sure of the market value of our Class A common stock that will be paid to Shutterstock stockholders as consideration in the Merger; and Our stockholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest in Getty Images following the merger as compared to their ownership and voting interest in us and will exercise less influence over management. Operational Risks Related to Our Business Our business depends in large part on our ability to attract new and retain existing and repeat customers. More than a majority of our revenue is derived from customers who have licensed content from us in the past. We are also increasingly seeing the mix of revenue shift to committed revenues from annual subscription products. We must ensure that existing customers remain active customers and that we are successful in renewing our committed content agreements, including Premium Access agreements and iStock annual subscriptions. Our future performance largely depends on our ability to attract new and retain existing customers. We employ various customer experience, content, marketing and pricing strategies to incentivize customers to seek and use our content. Our customer experience strategies may be unsuccessful, due to lack of available and desirable content, the depth and breadth of our current and future product offerings, lack of differentiated content, a decline or failure in the quality and accuracy of our search algorithms, the features and functionality of our websites, payment systems and effectiveness of our sales support. As new and emerging platforms and content distribution systems emerge, including but not limited to generative AI generated content and services powered by generative AI, including open-source generative AI, our customers may no longer want to source content from distributors such as us. In addition, our marketing strategies may not attract new customers, our content strategies may not attract relevant content from a suitably diverse network of suppliers and our pricing strategies may discourage purchases. To the extent that we are unable to attract new customers, our costs to acquire and retain customers increase, or our existing customers do not continue to license content from us for these or any other reasons, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to offer relevant quality and diversity of content to satisfy customer needs, including due to an inability to license content owned by third parties, which may become unavailable to us on commercially reasonable terms or may not be available at all. We generate a significant majority of our revenue from content that we source from third parties. We typically acquire rights in such content from suppliers through licenses, either on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis, with the 16 Table of Contents ability to grant sublicenses. If we are unable to renew our supply agreements with third-party suppliers or if such suppliers otherwise fail to continue to provide us with relevant content or cease providing content that we currently or may in the future license, we may be unable to offer our customers the depth and breadth of content they may demand. In addition, other digital content distributors who currently or in the future may offer competing content and services may offer content suppliers higher royalties, easier submission workflows and platforms, less rigorous ingestion practices, and/or exclusivity incentives, and/or take other actions that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to license existing or new content from third party suppliers. Such third party suppliers may choose to stop distributing new content with us or remove their existing content from our collection. If we are unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable license rights, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and future growth prospects limited. Our business is highly competitive, and we face intense competition from a number of companies and technologies, which could reduce our revenues, margins and results of operations. The digital media content industry is fragmented and intensely competitive, and competition may intensify in the future. Increased competition may result in our loss of market share, pricing pressure and reduced profit margins, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We compete with a wide array of entities, including large media companies, individual content creators and generative AI technologies. These competitors include: traditional stock content providers; other online platforms from which imagery may be sourced that provide both paid and no-cost licenses, including content created on demand or through generative AI models; other specialized editorial and video content providers that are established in local, content or product-specific market segments; independent photographers, filmmakers, musicians and related agencies; crowd-sourced distribution platforms, social networking and image hosting services; freelancers; creative agencies; software as a service solutions that package visual content into creative and design services; and products and services powered by generative AI, including open-source generative AI. Many of our competitors have or may obtain significantly greater financial, marketing or other resources or greater brand awareness than we have. Some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or expanding technology, such as generative AI technologies, and devote more resources to product development, marketing or content acquisition than we can. Industry consolidation could result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete for customers. This could lead to more variability in results of operations as we compete with larger competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, new competitors may enter our market, including those that rely on generative AI technologies. They and existing competitors could focus investment in creating, sourcing, archiving, indexing, reviewing, searching, purchasing or delivering content more easily or more affordably. The barriers to creating a website platform that allows for the license of digital content are low, especially when considering open-source generative AI that requires minimal resources to produce, which could result in greater competition. New entrants, as well as existing competitors, may raise significant amounts of capital (or leverage relationships with other competitors or investors) and they may choose to prioritize increasing their market share and brand awareness over profitability, including, for example, by investing more in content offerings, marketing or pricing strategies such as delivering AI generated content, offering higher royalties for exclusivity or lowering content prices. Some of these new competitors may also invest in other existing competitors, increasing market pressure on our offerings. Competitors could develop products or services that render ours less desirable or obsolete. External factors such as our competitors pricing and marketing strategies could impede our ability to meet customer expectations. Our competitors may be able to attract talented staff from us and others to devote greater resources to research and development of products and technologies. Increased competition and pricing pressures may result in reduced sales, lower margins, losses or the failure of our product and services to maintain and grow their current market share, any of which could harm our business. If we are unable to compete successfully against competitors and adapt to emerging technologies, our financial condition, growth prospects and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents We may be unsuccessful in executing our business strategy. The success of our business and our future growth prospects relies on our ability to execute our business strategies in making available desired content and expanding our global customer base. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to execute any or all of our strategies, including our ability to provide a proprietary platform and infrastructure as well as our acquisition strategy. Failure to execute these strategies on a timely and cost-effective basis could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could limit our growth prospects. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur increased costs and our management will continue to face increased demands as a result of continuously improving our operations as a public company. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant legal, tax, insurance, accounting and other expenses as a result of conducting our operations as a public company. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and related regulations implemented by the SEC and the stock exchanges increase legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time-consuming. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. Further, there may be uncertainty regarding the implementation of these laws due to changes in the political climate and other factors. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs to obtain directors and officers insurance as a result of operating as a public company, as well as additional costs necessitated by compliance matters and ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance standards. These and other increased costs associated with operating as a public company may decrease our net income or increase our net loss and may cause us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services to offset the effect of such increased costs. Although we continue to evaluate and manage our costs, the ability to effectively manage such costs is subject to risks and uncertainties, and we cannot be sure that these activities, or any other activities that we may undertake in the future, will achieve the desired cost management or efficiencies. Failure to effectively manage our costs, whether as a result of being a public company or otherwise, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and curtail investment in growth opportunities If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or in a timely fashion, and we may not be able to prevent fraud; in such case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and could negatively impact the price of our stock. As a public company, we are required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to establish and maintain corporate oversight and adequate internal control over financial reporting and disclosure