Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. Our business, financial condition, operating results, or prospects could also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material. If any of the risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Position Our business and operations have experienced rapid growth, and if we do not appropriately and effectively manage future growth, if any, or are unable to improve our systems, processes and controls, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects will be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth, both in terms of employee headcount and customer growth, as well as increased demand for our products. We anticipate that we will continue to expand our operations and responsibly grow our headcount in the near term, and our success will depend in part on our ability to manage that growth effectively, although there is no assurance that our rate of growth will continue at its current pace. Our total number of Base Customers has grown to 9,893 as of January 31, 2025 from 8,602 as of January 31, 2024. The growth and expansion of our business places a continuous significant strain on our management and operational and financial resources. In addition, as customers adopt our products for an increasing number of use cases, we have had to support more complex commercial relationships. To effectively manage and capitalize on our growth periods, we need to manage headcount capital and processes efficiently, while continuing to make investments to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, our security and compliance requirements, our operating and administrative systems, our relationships with various partners and other third parties. Our rate of growth may also be impacted as a result of global business or macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, volatile interest rates, uncertainty with respect to the federal budget and debt ceiling and potential government shutdowns related thereto, volatility of the global debt and equity markets, and investment decisions by our customers. We may not be able to sustain the pace of improvements to our products successfully or implement systems, processes, and controls in an efficient or timely manner or in a manner that does not negatively affect our results of operations. Failure to effectively manage growth or improve our systems, processes, and controls, or the failure to operate in the intended manner could result in the following adverse impacts to our business: difficulty or delays in deploying customers, declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs, difficulties in introducing new features or other operational difficulties, inability to manage the growth of our business and to forecast our revenue, expenses, and earnings accurately, or to prevent losses. Our recent growth may not be indicative of our future growth, and we may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate in the future. Our growth also makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. Our total revenue for the years ended January 31, 2025 and 2024 was $759.2 million and $579.9 million, respectively, representing a growth rate of 31%. You should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarter or annual period as an indication of our future performance. As a result of our limited history operating as a public company, our ability to accurately forecast our future results of operations is limited 20 Table of Contents and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. Our historical revenue growth should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Further, in future periods, our revenue could decline or our revenue growth rate could slow. Many factors may contribute to this decline, including changes to technology, increased competition, slowing demand for The DevSecOps platform, the maturation of our business, a failure by us to continue capitalizing on growth opportunities, our failure, for any reason, to continue to take advantage of growth opportunities and a global economic downturn, among others. If our growth rate declines, investors perceptions of our business and the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, we expect to continue to responsibly expend financial and other resources to align with our: expansion and enablement of our sales, services, and marketing organization to increase brand awareness and drive adoption of The DevSecOps platform; product development, including investments in our product development team and the development of new features and functionality for The DevSecOps platform, including those related to artificial intelligence, or AI; technology and sales channel partnerships; international expansion; acquisitions or strategic investments; and general administration, including increased legal and accounting expenses associated with being a public company. These investments may not result in increased revenue in our business. If we are unable to maintain or increase our revenue at a rate sufficient to offset the expected increase in our costs, our business, financial position and results of operations will be harmed, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Our ability to forecast our future results of operations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to effectively plan for and model future growth. We have encountered in the past, and may encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, or if we are not able to accurately forecast future growth, our business would be harmed. Moreover, if the assumptions that we use to plan our business are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our market, or we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our share price could be volatile, and it may be difficult to achieve and maintain profitability. We have a history of losses, anticipate increases in our operating expenses in the future, and may not achieve or sustain profitability on a consistent basis. If we cannot achieve and sustain profitability, our business, financial condition, and operating results may be adversely affected. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception, including net losses of approximately $173.4 million, $425.7 million and $6.3 million in fiscal year 2023, 2024 and 2025, respectively. As of January 31, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.2 billion. While we have experienced significant growth in revenue in recent periods, we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in future periods or that, if at any time we are profitable, we will sustain profitability. We also expect our operating and other expenses to increase in the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in our future growth, including expanding our research and development function to drive further development of The DevSecOps platform (including related to AI capabilities), expanding our sales and marketing activities, developing the functionality to expand into adjacent markets, and reaching customers 21 Table of Contents in new geographic locations, which will negatively affect our operating results if our total revenue does not increase. While we consistently evaluate opportunities to reduce our operating costs and optimize efficiencies, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful or that we will not re-accelerate operating expenditures in the future in order to capitalize on growth opportunities. In addition to the anticipated costs to continue to grow our business, we also expect to continue to incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses as a public company. These efforts and expenses may be more costly than we expect, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase our revenue to offset our operating expenses. Our revenue growth may slow or our revenue may decline for a number of reasons, including reduced demand for The DevSecOps platform, increased competition, an increased use of our free product offerings, a decrease in the growth or reduction in size of our overall market, or any inability on our part to capitalize on growth opportunities. Further, as our SaaS offering makes up an increasing percentage of our total revenue, we expect to see increased associated cloud-related costs, such as hosting and infrastructure costs, which may adversely impact our gross margins. Any failure to increase our revenue or to manage our costs as we continue to grow and invest in our business would prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability or achieving or maintaining positive operating cash flow at all or on a consistent basis, which would cause our business, financial condition, and results of operations to suffer. As we continue to invest in infrastructure, develop our services and features, responsibly manage our headcount and expand our sales and marketing activity, we may continue to have losses in future periods and these may increase significantly. As a result, our losses in future periods may be significantly greater than the losses we would incur if we developed our business more slowly. In addition, we may find that these efforts require greater investment of time and human and capital resources than we currently anticipate and/or that they may not result in increases in our revenues or billings. Any failure by us to achieve and sustain profitability on a consistent basis could cause the value of our Class A common stock to decline. Security and privacy breaches may hurt our business. The DevSecOps platform hosts, processes, stores, and transmits our customers proprietary and sensitive data, including personal data, and financial data. We also use third-party service providers and sub-processors to help us deliver services to our customers and their end-users. These vendors may host, process, store, or transmit personal data, or other confidential information of our team members, our partners, our customers, or our customers end-users. We collect such information from individuals located both in the United States and abroad and may host, process, store, or transmit such information outside the country in which it was collected. While we, our third-party cloud providers, our third-party processors, and our customers have implemented security measures designed to protect against security breaches, these measures could fail or may be insufficient, resulting in the unauthorized access or disclosure, modification, misuse, destruction, or loss of our or our customers data or other sensitive information. Any security breach of our DevSecOps platform, our operational systems, physical facilities, or the systems of our third-party processors, or the perception that a breach has occurred, could result in litigation, indemnity obligations, regulatory enforcement actions, investigations, compulsory audits, fines, penalties, mitigation and remediation costs, disputes, reputational harm, diversion of managements attention, and other liabilities and damage to our business. Even though we do not control the security measures of our customers and other third parties, we may be considered responsible for any breach of such measures or suffer reputational harm even where we do not have recourse to the third party that caused the breach, if it is found that GitLab failed to conduct comprehensive third party risk due diligence. In addition, any failure by our vendors to comply with applicable law or regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. Security incidents of ours or our third-party service providers information technology systems that compromisethe confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our data could result from AI related sensitive data exposure such as insufficient data anonymization during the training process, system misconfiguration, or from cyber attacks, including, but not limited to, denial-of-service attacks, reverse-engineering of AI algorithms, web scraping, ransomware attacks, business email compromises, computer 22 Table of Contents malware, viruses, and social engineering (including phishing), which are prevalent in our industry and our customers industries. Any security breach or disruption could result in the loss or destruction of or unauthorized access to, or use, alteration, disclosure, or acquisition of confidential and/or personal data, which may result in damage to our reputation, early termination of our contracts, litigation, regulatory investigations, or other liabilities. If our, our customers, or our partners security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, team member error, misconfiguration, malfeasance (including bribery) or otherwise and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to The DevSecOps platform, including personal and/or confidential information of our customers, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer loss of current customers and future opportunities and we could incur significant financial liability including fines, cost of recovery, and costs related to remediation measures. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently. As a result, we may be unable to fully anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived security breach occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed, and we could lose sales and customers. If we are, or are perceived to be, not in compliance with data protection, consumer privacy, or other legal or regulatory requirements or operational norms bearing on the collection, processing, storage, or other treatment of data records, including personal data, our reputation and operating performance may suffer. Further, we need to continually monitor and remain compliant with all applicable changes in local, state, national, or international legal or regulatory requirements. Any significant violations of data privacy could result in the loss of business, litigation, and regulatory investigations and penalties that could damage our reputation and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We have contractual and legal obligations to notify relevant stakeholders of security breaches. Most jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring companies to notify affected individuals, regulatory authorities, and relevant others of security breaches involving certain types of data, including personal data. In addition, our agreements with certain customers and partners may require us to notify them in the event of a security breach. Such mandatory disclosures are costly, could lead to negative publicity, may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, and may require us to expend significant capital and other resources to respond to or alleviate problems caused by the actual or perceived security breach. A security breach may cause us to breach customer contracts. Our agreements with certain customers may require us to use industry-standard or reasonable measures to safeguard sensitive personal data or confidential information. A security breach could lead to claims by our customers, their end-users, or other relevant stakeholders that we have failed to comply with such legal or contractual obligations. As a result, we could be subject to legal action or our customers could end their relationships with us. There can be no assurance that any limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from liabilities or damages. Litigation resulting from security breaches may adversely affect our business. Unauthorized access to The DevSecOps platform, systems, networks, or physical facilities could result in litigation with our customers, our customers end-users, or other relevant stakeholders. These proceedings could force us to spend money in defense or settlement, divert managements time and attention, increase our costs of doing business, or adversely affect our reputation. We could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify The DevSecOps platform capabilities in response to such litigation, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If a security breach were to occur, and the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our data or the data of our partners, our customers or our customers end-users was disrupted, we could incur significant liability, or The DevSecOps platform, systems, or networks may be perceived as less desirable, which could negatively affect our business and damage our reputation. If we fail to detect, contain, or remediate a security breach in a timely manner, or a breach otherwise affects a large amount of data of one or more customers, or if we suffer a cyber attack that impacts our ability to operate The DevSecOps platform, we may suffer material damage to our reputation, business, 23 Table of Contents financial condition, and results of operations. Further, while we maintain cyber insurance that may provide coverage for these types of incidents, such coverage may not be adequate to cover the costs and other liabilities related to these incidents. In addition, we cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that our insurers will not deny coverage as to any future claim. Our risks are likely to increase as we continue to expand The DevSecOps platform, grow our customer base, and host, process, store, and transmit increasingly large amounts of proprietary and confidential data. We face heightened risk of security breaches because we use third-party open source technologies and incorporate a substantial amount of open source code in our products. The DevSecOps platform is built using open-source technology. Using or incorporating any third-party technology can become a vector for supply-chain cyber attacks. Such attacks are prevalent in our industry and our customers industries, and our use of open-source technology may, or may be perceived to, leave us vulnerable to security attacks. We have previously been, and may in the future become, the target of cyber attacks by third parties seeking unauthorized access to our or our customers data or to disrupt our operations or ability to provide our services. If we are the target of cyber attacks as a result of our use of open source code, it may substantially damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We face intense competition and could lose market share to our competitors, which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. The markets for our services are highly competitive, with limited barriers to entry. Competition presents an ongoing threat to the success of our business. We expect competition in the software business generally, and in all of the stages of the software development lifecycle that our product covers, in particular, to continue to increase. We expect to continue to face intense competition from current competitors, as well as from new entrants into the market or from adjacent markets. If we are unable to anticipate or react to these challenges, our competitive position would weaken, and we would experience a decline in revenue or reduced revenue growth, and loss of market share that would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We face competition in several areas due to the nature of our product. Our product offering is broad across all stages of the software development lifecycle which has us competing with many providers with offerings across all stages. We compete with well-established providers such as Microsoft and Atlassian as well as other companies with offerings in fewer stages, including with respect to both code hosting and code collaboration services, as well as file storage, distribution services, and AI. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including the following: the ability of our products or of those of our competitors to deliver the positive business outcomes prioritized and valued by our customers and prospects; our ability to price our products competitively, including our ability to transition users of our free product offering to a paid version of The DevSecOps platform; the timing and market acceptance of services, including the developments and enhancements to those services offered by us or our competitors, including incorporation of AI into such services; the amount and quality of communications, postings, and sharing by our users on public forums, which can promote improvements on The DevSecOps platform but may also lead to disclosure of commercially sensitive details; our ability to monetize activity on our services; customer service and support efforts; 24 Table of Contents sales and marketing efforts; ease of use, performance and reliability of solutions developed either by us or our competitors; our ability to manage our operations in a cost effective manner; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our product offering; our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors; introduction of new technologies or standards that compete with or are unable to be adopted in our products; ability to attract new team members or retain existing team members which could affect our ability to attract new customers, service existing customers, enhance our product or handle our business needs; our ability to maintain and grow our community of users; and the length and complexity of our sales cycles. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than we do. Furthermore, our current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources and the ability to initiate or withstand substantial price competition. In addition, many of our competitors have established sales and marketing relationships and have access to larger customer bases. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their product offerings or resources. These factors may allow our competitors to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer preferences. These competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies which may undercut our pricing policies and allow them to build a larger user base or to monetize that user base more effectively than us. If our competitors products, platforms, services or technologies maintain or achieve greater market acceptance than ours, if they are successful in bringing their products or services to market earlier than ours, or if their products, platforms or services are more technologically capable than ours, then our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, some of our competitors may offer their products and services at a lower price or for free, or may offer a competing product with other services or products that together result in offering the competing product for free. If we are unable to achieve our target pricing levels, our operating results would be negatively affected. Pricing pressures and increased competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or a failure to maintain or improve our competitive market position, any of which could adversely affect our business. Many of our users extend the functionality of The DevSecOps platform using third-party code editors and integrated development environments, or IDEs, including editors and IDEs developed by our competitors. Our development and distribution of integrations with such tools is subject to the integration policies and technical specifications imposed by the developer of the tool. A change to the policies and specifications pertaining to any of these third-party tools (including those developed by Microsoft), could cause us to lose market share to competitors whose products and services continue to support integrations with such tools. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes with new solutions, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The DevSecOps market is characterized by rapid technological change, fluctuating price points, and frequent new product and service introductions. Our ability to increase our user base and increase 25 Table of Contents revenue from existing customers will depend heavily on our ability to enhance and improve our existing solutions, introduce new features and products, both independently and in conjunction with third-party developers and technology partners, reach new platforms and sell into new markets. Customers may require features and capabilities that our current solutions do not have. If we fail to develop solutions that satisfy customer preferences in a timely and cost-effective manner, we may fail to renew our subscriptions with existing customers and create or increase demand for our solutions, and our business may be materially and adversely affected. The introduction of new services by competitors or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing offerings could make our solutions obsolete or adversely affect our business. In addition, any new markets or countries into which we attempt to sell our solutions may not be receptive. We may experience difficulties, including delayed releases and upgrades, with software development, design, or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction, or implementation of new solutions and enhancements. Delayed releases or upgrades, or releases with defects,could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenue, delay in market acceptance, or claims by customers brought against us, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, upgrades and enhancements to our solutions may require substantial investment and we have no assurance that such investments will be successful. If users do not widely adopt enhancements to our solutions, we may not be able to realize a return on our investment. If we are unable to develop, license, or acquire enhancements to our existing solutions on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if such enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. If our services fail to perform properly, whether due to material defects with the software or external issues, our reputation could be adversely affected, our market share could decline, and we could be subject to liability claims. Our products are inherently complex and may contain material defects, software bugs or errors.Any defects in functionality or operational procedures that cause interruptions in the availability of our products could result in: loss or delayed market acceptance and sales; loss of data; breach of warranty claims; sales credits or refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused subscription services; loss of customers; diversion of development and customer service resources; loss of operational time; destruction or compromised integrity of data and/or intellectual property; and injury to our reputation. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects, software bugs or errors might be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information. Our ability to effectively manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The operation, success and growth of our business (whether now or in the future) depends on streamlined processes made available through information systems, global communications, internet activity, and other network processes. The future operation, success and growth of our business depends 26 Table of Contents on streamlined processes made available through information systems, global communications, internet activity, and other network processes. Our information technology systems may be subject to damage or interruption from telecommunications problems, data corruption, software errors, fire, flood, acts of terror and armed conflicts, global pandemics and natural disasters, power outages, systems disruptions, system conversions, and/or human error. Our existing safety systems, data backup, access protection, user management and information technology emergency planning may not be sufficient to prevent data loss or long-term network outages. In addition, we may have to upgrade our existing information technology systems or choose to incorporate new technology systems from time to time in order for such systems to support the increasing needs of our expanding business. Introduction of new technology, or upgrades and maintenance to our existing systems, could result in increased costs or unforeseen problems which may disrupt or reduce our operating efficacy. We may also encounter service interruptions, outage, or disruption due to issues interfacing with our customers IT systems, including stack misconfigurations or improper environment scaling, defective updates or upgrades, or due to cybersecurity attacks on ours or our customers IT systems. Any such service interruption may have an adverse impact on our reputation and future operating results. Because of the nature and importance of the data that our customers collect and manage by means of our services, it is possible that failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption, and/or cause the information that we or our customers collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as material. Furthermore, the availability or performance of our products could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: customers inability to access the internet, the failure of our network or software systems, security breaches, or variability in user traffic for our services. We may be required to issue credits or refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused services or otherwise be liable to our customers for damages they may incur resulting from certain events. If a customers internet service provider fails to provide sufficient capacity to support our products, otherwise experiences service outages, interruption or disruption, or intentionally or unintentionally restricts or limits our ability to send, deliver, or receive electronic communications or provide services, such failure could interrupt our customers access to our products, adversely affect their perception of our products reliability and reduce our revenues. In addition to potential liability, if we experience interruptions in the availability of our products or services, our reputation could be adversely affected and we could lose customers. Our production systems might not be sufficiently resilient against regional outages and recovery from such an outage might take an extended period of time. Further, while we have in place a data recovery plan, our data backup systems might fail and our data recovery plans may be insufficient to fully recover all of ours or our customers data hosted on our system. While we currently maintain errors and omissions insurance, it may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover all claims made against us and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert managements attention. The market for our services is relatively new and rapidly evolving with uncertain growth expectations which would adversely affect our future results and the trading price of our Class A common stock. Because the market for our services is relatively new and rapidly evolving, it is difficult to predict customer adoption, customer demand for our services, the size and growth rate of this market, the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive services. Any expansion or contraction in our market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with our services and the appetite and ability of customers to use and pay for the services we provide. Further, even if the overall market for the type of services we provide continues to grow, we face intense competition from larger and more well-established providers and we may not be able to compete effectively or achieve market acceptance of our products. If we or other software and SaaS providers 27 Table of Contents experience security incidents, loss of customer data, or disruptions in delivery or service, the market for these applications as a whole, including The DevSecOps platform and products, may be negatively affected. If the market for our services does not achieve widespread adoption, we do not compete effectively in this market, or there is a reduction in demand for our software or our services in our market caused by a lack of customer acceptance, implementation challenges for deployment, technological challenges, lack of accessible data, competing technologies and services, decreases in corporate spending, including as a result of global business or macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, volatile interest rates, uncertainty with respect to the federal budget and debt ceiling and potential government shutdowns related thereto, volatility of the global debt and equity markets, actual or perceived instability in the global banking sector, or otherwise, it could result in reduced customer orders and decreased revenues, which could require slowing our rate of headcount growth and would adversely affect our business operations and financial results. We are dependent on sales and marketing strategies to drive our growth in our revenue. These sales and marketing strategies may not be successful in continuing to generate sufficient sales opportunities. Any decline in our customer renewals and expansions could harm our future operating results. Our business model depends on generating and maintaining a large user base that is satisfied with The DevSecOps platform. We rely on satisfied customers to expand their footprint by buying new products and services and onboarding additional users. We have implemented user limits on our free SaaS product, and have limited historical data with respect to the number of current and previous free users and the rates in which customers convert to paying customers. As a result, we may not accurately predict future customer purchasing trends. In future periods, our growth could slow or our profits could decline for several reasons, including decreased demand for our product offerings and our professional services, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, a decrease in corporate spending, including as a result of global business or macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, volatile interest rates, uncertainty with respect to the federal budget and debt ceiling and potential government shutdowns related thereto, volatility of the global debt and equity markets, and actual or perceived instability in the global banking sector, or otherwise, or our failure, for any reason, to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. We may be forced to change or abandon our subscription based revenue model in order to compete with our competitors offerings. It could also become increasingly difficult to predict revenue and timing of collections as our mix of annual, multi-year and other types of transactions changes as a result of our expansion into cloud-based offerings. Our failure to execute on our revenue projections could impair our ability to meet our business objectives and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell more subscriptions and additional services to our current customers. Even if customers choose to renew their current subscriptions with us, they may decline to purchase additional services or they may choose to downtier or otherwise decrease the number of seats in their subscription. If our customers do not purchase additional subscriptions and services from us, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be harmed. Paying customers may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction with our services and our end-customer support, the frequency and severity of product outages, our product uptime or latency, their satisfaction with the speed of delivering new features, the pricing of our, or competing, services, and the impact of macroeconomic conditions on our customers and their corporate spending. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of paying customers buying more seats, uptiering, downtiering and churning, so we may not accurately predict future customer trends. Our customer expansions and renewals may decline or fluctuate, and conversely, contractions and downtiers may increase, or fluctuate, as a result of a number of factors, including: quality of our sales efforts, customer usage, customer satisfaction with our services and customer support, our prices 28 Table of Contents (including price increases we have implemented in the past, the prices of competing services, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, the effects of global economic conditions, including inflation, volatile interest rates, uncertainty with respect to the federal budget and debt ceiling and potential government shutdowns related thereto and volatility of the global debt and equity markets, and actual or perceived instability in the global banking sector, or reductions in our customers spending levels generally (including, our customers that have or may have to downsize their operations or headcount). If we cannot use our marketing strategies in a cost-effective manner or if we fail to promote our services efficiently and effectively, our ability to acquire new customers or expand the services of our existing customers may suffer. In addition, an increase in the use of online and social media for product promotion and marketing may increase the burden on us to monitor compliance of such materials and increase the risk that such materials could contain problematic product or marketing claims in violation of applicable regulations. Further, we have previously discontinued certain lower priced product offerings, requiring users of these products to switch to another paid offering, switch to our free product or discontinue using our products. Additionally, we have implemented user limits on our free SaaS product. To the extent we discontinue or add additional limits on our free or lower-priced product offerings, we cannot assure you that our customers will purchase our products, and if our end customers do not purchase our products, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected or decline. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our operating results have varied significantly from period to period in the past, and we expect that our operating results will continue to vary significantly in the future such that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Accordingly, our financial results in any one quarter or fiscal year should not be relied upon as indicative of future performance. Our quarterly or annual financial results may fluctuate as a result of several factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including: our ability to attract and retain new customers; the addition or loss of material customers, including through acquisitions or consolidations; the timing of recognition of revenues; the amount and timing of operating expenses related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; general economic, industry and market conditions, in both domestic and our foreign markets, including inflation, volatile interest rates, uncertainty with respect to the federal budget and debt ceiling and potential government shutdowns related thereto and volatility of the global debt and equity markets, and actual or perceived instability in the global banking sector, the potential effects of health pandemics or epidemics and other global events, including the impacts of the U.S. presidential election and ongoing armed conflicts in different regions of the world; customer renewal rates; the timing and success of new service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, customers or strategic partners; our ability to convert users of our free product offerings into subscribing customers; increases or decreases in the number of elements of our services or pricing changes upon any renewals of customer agreements; 29 Table of Contents allocation of software development in customers budget; seasonal variations in sales of our products; decisions by potential customers to use products of our competitors; the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill from acquired companies; extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments or outcomes; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies or practices; negative media coverage or publicity; political events; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our business, in the U.S. and foreign markets; the cost to develop and upgrade The DevSecOps platform to incorporate new technologies; and increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, we experience seasonal fluctuations in our financial results as we typically receive a higher percentage of our annual orders from new customers, as well as renewal orders from existing customers, in our last two fiscal quarters as compared to the first two fiscal quarters due to the annual budget approval process of many of our customers, the timing of our customers decisions to make a purchase, changes our customers experienced, or may experience, in their businesses, and other variables some of which are outside of our and our customers control, such as macroeconomic and general economic conditions, including inflation and volatile interest rates. Any of the above factors, individually or in the aggregate, may result in significant fluctuations in our financial and other operating results from period to period. As a result of this variability, our historical operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Moreover, this variability and unpredictability could result in our failure to meet our operating plan or the expectations of investors or analysts for any period. If we fail to meet such expectations for the reasons described above or any other reasons, our stock price could fall substantially. As our product offerings mature and expand, our pricing and packaging for new products may result in existing customers purchasing new products on terms less favorable to us in order to replace the products they currently purchase or subscribe for from us. As our product offerings and the markets for our services mature, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that are similar to or compete with ours, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as we have used historically. Moreover, some customers may demand greater price concessions or additional functionality at the same price levels. As a result, in the future we may be required to reduce our prices or provide more features without corresponding increases in price, which could adversely affect our revenues, gross margin, profitability, financial position and cash flow. In addition, our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of the initial subscription period. A majority of our subscriptions are on a one-year period. Our customers may renew for fewer or other elements of our services or negotiate for different pricing terms. Our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their 30 Table of Contents dissatisfaction with our pricing or our services, their ability to continue their operations and spending levels, and changes in other technology components used within the customers organization. Changes in product packaging, pricing strategy, or product offerings, or the implementation or execution of the foregoing, may not be seen favorably by our customers and may have an adverse effect on our ability to retain our current customers and acquire new ones. For example, we have previously discontinued certain lower priced product offerings, and we have in the past implemented price increases, which may cause customers who previously used these tiers to opt for our free version or to cease using our products completely. We may also decide to raise the prices of our product offerings in the future. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions on similar pricing terms, our revenues may decline, and our business could suffer. In addition, over time the average term of our contracts could change based on renewal rates or for other reasons. The implementation of AI and machine learning technologies in our services may result in reputational harm, liability, increased expenditures, or other adverse consequences to our business operations. We have implemented AI capabilities throughout GitLabs services, including as part of the GitLab Duo suite of AI features. The technologies underpinning these features are in the early stages of commercial use and exist in a rapidly-evolving regulatory and commercial environment which presents regulatory, litigation, ethical, reputational, and financial risks. Many states, regions, and supranational bodies have proposed or enacted regulations related to the use of AI and machine learning technologies, such as the E.U. Artificial Intelligence Act, which came into effect on August 1, 2024. These regulations may impose onerous obligations related to our, and our vendors, development, offering, and use of AI technologies and expose us to an increased risk of regulatory enforcement and litigation. Additionally, issues relating to intellectual property rights in AI-generated content have not been fully addressed by the courts, laws, or regulations and there has been an increase in litigation in this area. Accordingly, the implementation of generative AI technologies into our services may result in exposure to claims related to copyright infringement or other intellectual property misappropriation. Furthermore, many of our generative AI features involve the processing of personal data and may be subject to laws, policies, legal obligations, and codes of conduct related to privacy and data protection. While there is current uncertainty about the extent to which privacy and data protection laws apply to AI technologies, any delay in addressing privacy or data protection concerns relating to our AI features may result in liability or regulatory investigations and fines, as well as damage to our sales and reputation. Our generative AI features may also generate output that is misleading, insecure, inaccurate, harmful, or otherwise flawed, which may harm our reputation, business, or customers, or expose us to legal liability. We rely on third-party vendors for the provision of the AI models which power many of our AI features. In the event those vendors encounter service disruption, materially and adversely change the terms on which they provide access to the models, or otherwise cease providing or change the basis on which they provide access to the models such that we can no longer obtain access, our ability to provide AI-powered features may be adversely affected. Further, developing, testing, and offering AI-powered features may lead to greater than expected expenditures for our company because deploying AI systems involves high computing costs, which could adversely affect our gross margin, profitability, financial position, and cash flow. 31 Table of Contents Transparency is one of our core values. While we will continue to prioritize transparency, we must also promote "responsible" transparency as transparency can have unintended negative consequences. Transparency is one of our core values. As an all-remote open-source software company, we believe transparency is essential to how we operate our business and interact with our team members, the community, and our customers. We also find it to be critical for team member recruitment, retention, efficiency and our culture. In addition, our transparency is highly valued by both our customers and our contributors. While we will continue to emphasize transparency, we also promote and educate our team members about responsible internal and external transparency, as openly sharing certain types of information can potentially lead to unintended, and sometimes negative, consequences. As a result of our transparency, our competitors and other outside parties may have access to certain information that is often kept confidential or internal at other companies through our Handbook, our team members open and public use of The DevSecOps platform to run our business, and other avenues of communication we commonly use. The public availability of this information may allow our competitors to take advantage of certain of our innovations, and may allow parties to take other actions, including litigation, that may have an adverse impact on our operating results or cause reputational harm, which in turn may have a negative economic impact. We are also subject to Regulation FD, which imposes restrictions on the selective disclosure of material information to stockholders and other market participants, and other regulations. While we have implemented internal controls to maintain compliance with Regulation FD, if as a result of our transparency, we disclose material information in a non-Regulation FD compliant matter, we may be subject to heightened regulatory and litigation risk. The Handbook may not be up to date or accurate, which may result in negative third-party scrutiny or be used in ways that adversely affects our business. Consistent with our commitment to our transparency and efficiency values, we maintain a publicly available company Handbook that contains important information about our operations and business practices. This Handbook is open to the public and may be used by our competitors or bad actors in malicious ways that may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Although we aim to keep the Handbook updated, the information in the Handbook may not be up to date at all times. Also, because any of our team members can contribute to the Handbook, the information in the Handbook may not be accurate. We have implemented disclosure