Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Business MetricsDollar-Based Net Retention Rate and ARR below for additional information about how we define ARR. We make our plans available through our self-managed and software-as-a-service, or SaaS offerings. For our self-managed offering, the customer installs The DevOps Platform in its own private or hybrid cloud environment. For our SaaS offering, the platform is managed by GitLab and hosted in the public cloud. For more information regarding our customers, refer to the section titled Our Customers. DevOps is the set of practices that combines software development (dev) and IT operations (ops). It aims to allow teams to collaborate and work together to shorten the development lifecycle and evolve from delivering software on a slow, periodic basis to rapid, continuous updates. When DevOps started, each team bought their own tools in isolation, leading to a Bring Your Own DevOps environment. The next evolution was standardizing company-wide on the same tool for each stage across the DevOps lifecycle. However, these tools were not connected, leading to a Best in Class DevOps environment. Companies tried to remedy this fragmentation and inefficiency by manually integrating these DevOps point solutions together defining the next phase: DIY DevOps. 5 Table of Contents At the same time, the faster delivery of software required more DevOps tools per project. Increased adoption of a microservice architecture led to more projects. The combination caused an exponential increase in the number of tool-project integrations. This has often led to poor user experiences, higher costs, and increased time to deliver new software. As a result, business outcomes often failed and the potential for DevOps was never fully realized. In short, an entirely new platform for DevOps was needed. We pioneered The DevOps Platform to solve this problem. The DevOps Platform replaces the DIY DevOps approach. It enables organizations to realize the full potential of DevOps and become software-led businesses. It spans all stages of the DevOps lifecycle, from project planning, or Plan, to source code management, or Create, to continuous integration, or Verify, to static and dynamic application security testing, or Secure, to packaging artifacts, or Package, to continuous delivery and deployment, or Release, to configuring infrastructure for optimal deployment, or Configure, to monitoring it for incidents, or Monitor, to protecting the production deployment, or Protect, and managing the whole cycle with value stream analytics, or Manage. It also allows customers to manage and secure their applications across any cloud through a single platform. The DevOps Platform has broad use across organizations. It helps product and business teams to work with developers to introduce new features and drive successful business outcomes. It helps Chief Technology Officers, or CTOs, modernize their DevOps environment and drive developer productivity. It helps Chief Information Officers, or CIOs, adopt microservices and cloud native development to improve the efficiency, scale, and performance of their software architecture. It helps Chief Information Security Officers, or CISOs, reduce security vulnerabilities and deliver software faster. It helps organizations attract and retain top talent by allowing people to focus more time on their job and less time managing tools. The majority of our customers begin by using Create and Verify. Developers use Create to collaborate together on the same code base without conflicting or accidentally overwriting each other's changes. Create also maintains a running history of software contributions from each developer to allow for version control. Teams use Verify to ensure changes to code go through defined quality standards with automatic testing and reporting. We believe serving as this system of record for code and our high engagement with developers is a competitive advantage in realizing our single application vision as it creates interdependence and adoption across more stages of the DevOps lifecycle, such as Package, Secure, and Release. As more stages are addressed within a single application, the benefits of The DevOps Platform are enhanced. We are committed to advancing The DevOps Platform. Our dual flywheel development strategy leverages both development spend from our research and development team members as well as community contributions via our open core business model. By leveraging the power of each, we create a virtuous cycle where more contributions lead to more features, which leads to more users, leading back to more contributions. We emphasize iteration to drive rapid innovation in our development strategy. This iterative approach has enabled us to release a new version of our software on the 22 nd day of every month for 124 months in a row as of January 31, 2022. This is also due in part to our over 2,900 contributors in our global, open source community as of January 31, 2022. GitLab team members also use The DevOps Platform to power our own DevOps lifecycle. By doing so, we benefit from the inherent advantages of using a single application. We leverage these learnings to establish a rapid feedback loop to continually and rapidly improve The DevOps Platform. We have been a 100% remote workforce since inception and, as of January 31, 2022 , had approximately 1,630 team members in over 68 countries. Operating remotely allows us access to a global talent pool that enables us to hire talented team members, regardless of location, providing a strong competitive advantage. We foster a culture of results built on our core values of collaboration, results, efficiency, diversity-inclusion-belonging, iteration, and transparency. We aim to be transparent to build alignment and affinity with our community and customers. This is exemplified through our corporate 6 Table of Contents handbook, or the Handbook, our central repository that details how we run GitLab and is shared with the world. It consists of over 2,000 webpages of text, including our strategy and roadmap. We welcome everyone, both inside and outside of the company, to contribute to the Handbook. We have an open core business model. We offer a free tier with a large number of features to encourage use of The DevOps Platform, solicit contributions, and serve as targeted lead generation for paid customers. We also offer two paid subscription tiers with access to additional features that are more relevant to managers, directors, and executives. Our subscription plans are available as a self-managed offering where customers typically download to run The DevOps Platform in their own account in the public cloud, and also a SaaS offering which is managed by GitLab and hosted in our account in the public cloud. The DevOps Platform is used globally by organizations of all sizes across a broad range of industries. To reach, engage and help drive success at each, our sales force is amplified by our strategic hyperscaler partnerships, including Google Cloud and Amazon Web Services, or AWS, who offer The DevOps Platform on their marketplaces. We also benefit from strategic alliance partnerships, which resell The DevOps Platform to large enterprise customers, and our strong channel partnerships ranging from large global systems integrators to regional digital transformation specialists, and volume resellers. We employ a land-and-expand sales strategy. Our customer journey typically begins with developers and then expands to more teams and up to senior executive buyers. As of January 31, 2022 and 2021, our Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate was above 152% and above 145%, respectively . Our Base Customers grew to 4,593 as of January 31, 2022 from 2,745 as of January 31, 2021. Our cohort of customers generating $1.0 million or more in ARR grew to 39 as of January 31, 2022 from 20 as of January 31, 2021. Our business has experienced rapid growth. We generated revenue of $252.7 million and $152.2 million in fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, representing growth of 66%. During this period, we continued to invest in growing our business to capitalize on our market opportunity. Our net loss was $155.1 million and $192.2 million in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, respectively. Our operating cash flow margin, which we define as operating cash flows as a percentage of revenue, was (19.7)% and (48.4)% for fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, respectively. Our gross profit was 88% for each of fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021. The DevOps Platform GitLab has pioneered The DevOps Platform, a single application that brings together development, operations, IT, security, and business teams to deliver desired business outcomes through efficient software development. It represents a step change in how organizations plan, build, secure and deliver software. The DevOps Platform is built on a single codebase, unified data model, and user interface. Organizations can deploy The DevOps Platform as a self-managed offering in their own multi-cloud, hybrid-cloud, or on-premises environments, and as a SaaS offering in our own public cloud. The DevOps Platform is designed in a way that enables our customers to move their DevOps workflow across any hybrid or multi-cloud environment while maintaining full feature parity and a single application experience. The DevOps Platform is purpose-built to address every stage of the DevOps lifecycle: Manage. Helps teams organize multiple projects into a single collaborative portfolio, track important events across the DevOps lifecycle, measure using key performance indicators how the organization is adopting and performing with DevOps, audit activity and permissions across stages to ensure compliance while simplifying audit, and optimize and analyze the flow of work through the full DevOps value stream. 7 Table of Contents Plan. To create software, organizations require collaborative planning from disparate groups, each with shared and unique objectives. Planning together in the same system in which all of the work will take place enables faster and more efficient work in all other stages of The DevOps Platform. We enable portfolio planning and management through epics, groups (programs) and milestones to organize and track progress. GitLab helps teams organize, plan, align and track project work to ensure teams are working on the right things at the right time and maintain end to end visibility and traceability of issues throughout the delivery lifecycle from idea to production. Create. Helps teams design, develop and securely manage code and project data from a single distributed version control system to enable rapid iteration and delivery of business value. GitLab repositories provide a scalable single source of truth for collaborating on projects and code which enables teams to be productive without disrupting their workflows. Verify. Helps software teams fully embrace Continuous Integration, or CI, to automate the builds, integration, and verification of their code. GitLabs CI capabilities enable automated accessibility, usability, performance testing and code quality analysis to provide fast feedback to developers and testers about the quality of their code. With pipelines that enable concurrent testing and parallel execution, teams quickly get insight about every commit, allowing them to deliver higher quality code faster. Package. Enables teams to package their applications and dependencies, manage containers, and build artifacts with ease. The private, secure, container and package registries are built-in and preconfigured out-of-the box to work seamlessly with GitLab source code management, or SCM, security scanners, and Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery, or CI/CD, pipelines. Secure. Provides Static Application Security Testing, or SAST, Dynamic Application Security Testing, or DAST, Fuzz Testing, Container Scanning, and Dependency Scanning to help users deliver secure applications along with license compliance. Release. Helps automate the release and delivery of applications, shortening the delivery lifecycle, streamlining manual processes, and accelerating team velocity. With zero-touch CD built right into the pipeline, deployments can be automated to multiple environments like staging and production, and the system executes without additional manual intervention - even for more advanced patterns like canary deployments. With feature flags, built-in auditing/traceability, on-demand environments, and GitLab Pages for static content delivery, users are able to deliver faster and with more confidence than ever before. Configure. Helps teams to configure and manage their application environments. Strong integration to Kubernetes reduces the effort needed to define and configure the infrastructure required to support an application. Protects access to key infrastructure configuration details such as passwords and login information by using secret variables to limit access to only authorized users and processes. Monitor. Provides feedback in the form of errors, traces, metrics, logs, and alerts to help reduce the severity and frequency of incidents so that users can release software frequently with confidence. Protect. Provides cloud native protections, including unified policy management, container scanning, and container network and host security. Key Benefits Delivered to our Customers Run their entire DevOps lifecycle from a single application. The DevOps Platform lets our customers operate their entire DevOps lifecycle across a single application. This single codebase, unified data model, user permissioning, and interface can centralize and unify every 8 Table of Contents aspect of our customers DevOps lifecycle to streamline workflows and processes, and enhance overall productivity and efficiency. Enhanced innovation and revenue growth due to faster time to market. The DevOps Platform enables businesses to shorten their cycle times to meet the growing business demand to deliver new capabilities and increase responsiveness to change. With The DevOps Platform, our customers can often increase their software releases from the tens to thousands and reduce the time it takes to release new software from months to days, helping them generate more revenue. Reduce vulnerabilities and increase security. The DevOps Platform lets organizations embed security decisions earlier in the development process, without sacrificing speed or quality. The DevOps Platform also eliminates the need for multiple data repositories and reduces the number of hand-offs between development, operations, and security teams. This enables our customers to find and correct security vulnerabilities in their software earlier or eliminate inefficiencies in the software development process altogether. Enable audit and compliance. The DevOps Platform eliminates fragmented tools and point integrations that create blind spots and poor visibility across work streams. This allows compliance and audit teams to more easily log, track, and trace different steps across the DevOps lifecycle, better understand governance, and improve their compliance posture. Boost team member morale and productivity. The DevOps Platform enables our customers to spend more time building, deploying, and securing software, and less time managing, integrating, and triaging across different tools. In a single application, each team member can follow the entire lifecycle from beginning to end with contextual history and understanding at each process. This helps to deliver outsized productivity gains, helping our customers increase their revenue and generate greater profits. Reduce costs by enhancing productivity, consolidating point tools, and eliminating integrations. The DevOps Platform fulfills the functionality of multiple point products, enabling organizations to consolidate the number of tools they use. Further, The DevOps Platform also delivers cost savings to our customers by eliminating the hidden costs and time it takes to manually integrate these point products and drives greater efficiency gains and productivity. Based on a 2020 study conducted by Forrester Consulting, commissioned by us of a limited number of our customers, the cost savings and business benefits achievable by deploying The DevOps Platform to revenue-generating applications can enable customers to deliver a 407% return on investment within three years of deployment. Embrace the benefits of a portable workload and multi-cloud strategy. The DevOps Platform enables application portability by allowing customers to seamlessly secure and manage their applications across clouds. This allows our customers to provide full value stream analytics on their DevOps workflow and simplify their application security and compliance across clouds. It also allows them to optimize their cloud costs and embrace the best services across each cloud, without becoming overly reliant on a single public cloud provider. Competitive Strengths Our business benefits from the following competitive strengths: The DevOps Platform helps our customers transform into software-led businesses. Digital transformation is a board level imperative, and The DevOps Platform is at the center of it. The DevOps Platform allows our customers to successfully embrace the benefits of DevOps, pursue their digital transformation strategies, and create new business value with speed and efficiency. As a result, we often become strategic partners to enable our customers most important business outcomes. As the evolution towards a software-led business becomes even more 9 Table of Contents valuable, we believe we have a strong competitive advantage in helping companies undergo this transformation. Our company is uniquely positioned to achieve our single application vision . The DevOps Platform is purpose-built to address every stage of the DevOps lifecycle as a single application. The majority of our customers begin by using Create and Verify. Developers use Create to collaborate together on the same code base without conflicting or accidentally overwriting each other's changes. Create also maintains a running history of software contributions from each developer to allow for version control. Teams use Verify to ensure changes to code go through defined quality standards with automatic testing and reporting. We believe serving as this system of record for code and our high engagement with developers is a competitive advantage in realizing our single application vision as it creates interdependence and adoption across more stages of the DevOps lifecycle, such as Package, Secure, and Release. As more stages are addressed within a single application, the benefits of The DevOps Platform are enhanced. Flywheel development strategy accelerates innovation. Our dual flywheel development strategy leverages both development spend from our research and development team members as well as community contributions via our open core business model. By leveraging the power of each, we create a virtuous cycle where more contributions lead to more features, which leads to more users, leading back to more contributions. We emphasize iteration to drive rapid innovation in our development strategy. Our iterative approach has enabled us to release a new version of our software on the 22nd day of every month for 124 months in a row as of January 31, 2022. This is also due in part to our over 2,900 contributors in our global, open source community as of January 31, 2022. Finally, GitLab team members use The DevOps Platform to power our own DevOps lifecycle. By doing so, we benefit from the inherent advantages of using The DevOps Platform. We leverage these learnings to establish a rapid feedback loop to continually and rapidly improve The DevOps Platform. Large open source installed base that leads to paying customers. We provide users of The DevOps Platform with a free tier to encourage adoption, solicit contributions, and increase the overall awareness of The DevOps Platform. This leads to deep familiarity and affinity for The DevOps Platform, which serves as a highly targeted and efficient source to convert prospective customers into paid customers. We believe this provides us with a competitive advantage as the more users who can act as advocates for The DevOps Platform within a company the easier it is for us to secure new paying customers or expand within existing customers. Cloud neutrality, hybrid and data center delivery, and workload portability. The DevOps Platform is designed in a way that enables our customers to manage and secure their entire DevOps workflow across any hybrid or multi-cloud environment. It also allows our customers to maintain full feature parity and a single application experience across clouds. This enables our customers to select the best cloud provider for them and optimize for their best features when deciding where to host their DevOps projects. Additionally, it allows our customers to avoid vendor lock-in and overreliance on a single cloud provider. We believe this provides us with a competitive advantage to help empower our customers to embrace the full benefits of a multi cloud strategy. We are agnostic as to who we serve, how we sell, and where we deploy. The DevOps Platform can be adopted by companies and teams of all sizes, ranging from small businesses to the worlds largest enterprises. Our go-to-market strategy spans from self-service tiers, to high-velocity inside sales, to dedicated enterprise sales. Even with our largest customers, the initial sale sometimes takes place at a smaller team, and is then capable of scaling wall to wall across the organization. Further, our customers are able to deploy The DevOps Platform in their own cloud environments, or in our own public cloud. This deployment flexibility enables us to target customers across regulated verticals such as financial services and the public sector. 10 Table of Contents Collectively, we believe this provides us with a competitive advantage to target a broader addressable market of companies, verticals, and users. Pioneer in all-remote work since inception enhances our brand with customers and team members. We have been a fully distributed company since our inception, leading to best practices, thought leadership, and branding as a pioneer in all-remote work. We have been identified by Inc. as one of its Best Workplaces since 2019 due to our commitment to an all-remote workforce. As remote work has become a more popular topic after the COVID-19 pandemic, it has enhanced our overall company brand with new and existing customers and team members. Additionally, being an all-remote company enables broader access to talent across the globe. This provides us with a competitive advantage to hire team members with diverse, specialized, and highly in-demand skills who other employers with physical locations or less advanced remote work practices may not have access to. Our Growth Strategy We intend to invest in our business to advance adoption of The DevOps Platform. Our growth strategies include: Advance our feature maturity across more stages of the DevOps lifecycle. We intend to continue making investments in research and development and hiring top technical talent to mature our features in more stages of the DevOps lifecycle. For example, in fiscal 2022, we have invested a significant portion of our human capital costs focused on development into the Secure, Manage, and Plan phases. Our recent acquisition of Opstrace, Inc. in fiscal 2022 demonstrates our aim to deliver functionality in our monitor stage, leveraging the entire DevOps Platform to provide advanced observability. We will continue to make many of our features open source or source-code available to encourage contributions, which in turn, accelerates our ability to innovate and provide a better platform to our customers. Drive growth through enhanced sales and marketing. We believe that nearly all organizations will modernize from DIY DevOps into DevOps platforms and that the opportunity to continue growing our customer base is substantial. To drive new customer growth, we intend to continue investing in sales and marketing, with a focus on replacing DIY DevOps within larger organizations. We also continue to focus on acquiring users with our free product and converting free users to paying customers, with a special focus on improving the self-service purchasing experience. Drive increased expansion within our existing customer base. As customers realize the benefits of a single application they typically increase their spend with us by adding more users or purchasing higher tiered plans. As a result, for fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, our Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate was above 152% and above 145%, respectively. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing, with a focus on driving expansion of The DevOps Platform within existing customers, particularly for our larger customers. Further grow adoption of our SaaS offering. As organizations move more workloads to the cloud and consume technology as a service, we believe our SaaS offering will continue to grow at a faster rate than our self-managed offering. We intend to continue making investments in research and development to enhance new SaaS features, as well as in sales and marketing, to drive further adoption of our SaaS offering. Grow and invest in our partner network. We have been investing in our global partner ecosystem, composed of hyperscalers and cloud providers, including Google Cloud and AWS, technology and independent software vendor partners, global resellers, and system integrators. We plan to continue investing in building out our partner program to expand our distribution footprint, to broaden the awareness of The DevOps Platform, and to more efficiently add new customers. We will also continue to invest in building out our partnerships to deliver 11 Table of Contents transformation services to help our enterprise customers accelerate the deployment of The DevOps Platform. Expand our global footprint. We believe there is significant opportunity to continue to expand internationally. We grew our international revenue to $41.1 million for fiscal 2022 from $26.2 million for fiscal 2021, representing an increase of 57%. We intend to grow our international revenue by increasing our investments in our international sales and marketing operations including headcount in the EMEA and APAC regions. Human Capital Our Unique Culture and Values Our success is driven by our culture. We believe that our values and culture are a competitive advantage within our industry, and we will continue to invest time and resources in building our culture to drive superior business results. We are highly dependent on our management, highly-skilled engineers, sales team members and other professionals. It is crucial that we continue to identify, attract and retain valuable team members. To facilitate hiring and retention, we strive to make GitLab a diverse, inclusive workplace where every team member feels they belong and has the opportunity to grow and develop their career. We were re cognized by Inc. as one of 2021s Best Places To Work and have a 97% CEO approval rating and a 4.6 overall workplace approval rating on Glassdoor.com, as of January 31, 2022. As a result, we trust that our values have led and will continue to lead to results that distinguish us from other companies. They include: Our mission is to ensure that everyone can contribute. This mission guides our path, and we live our values along that path. Our values are a living document, and we encourage our team members to make suggestions to improve our company values constantly. We have established six core C.R.E.D.I.T. values: C ollaboration - Helping others is a priority; we rely on each other for help and advice; R esults - We follow through on our promises to each other, customers, users, and investors; E fficiency - We are about working on the right things to achieve more progress faster; D iversity, Inclusion & Belonging - We aim to foster an environment where everyone can thrive; I teration - We do the smallest thing possible and get it out as quickly as possible; and T ransparency - We strive to be open about as many things as possible to reduce the threshold to contribution and to make collaboration easier. Measure results, not hours. Our all-remote culture helps us to practice our values. We believe we were the largest all-remote company in the world prior to the COVID-19 pandemic and as a result we are able to recruit from a wider, more diverse, and more uniquely skilled pool of talent across the world. The freedom and flexibility that comes with an all-remote workforce enables team members to view work in an entirely new light, one which focuses on results and productivity over the number of hours spent working. For example, product engineers have measurable objectives to hit rather than prescribed hours to work and team members have on-call shifts based on when they are most productive and best able to contribute to our success. We seek to be transparent in everything we do. We publicly share information, including our strategy and objectives, in written form to encourage innovation and trust amongst our team 12 Table of Contents members, customers, and the wider open source community. Our process of being public by default reduces the threshold to contribution and makes collaboration easier. Transparency creates awareness for GitLab, allows us to recruit people who care about our values, gets us more and faster feedback from people outside the company, and makes it easier to collaborate. We believe that the open core model creates more value than it captures, and our ability to execute on our strategy far exceeds the abilities of our competitors. We do the smallest thing possible and get it out as quickly as we can. We aim to take an iterative approach in everything we do, including our day to day work and building The DevOps Platform. Our process is centered on dividing work into small increments, not completing everything at once, and pursuing each stage with speed and efficiency. Approaching work this way, we are able to rapidly get input from end-users who are actively using our platform, continuously revisit what we are doing with a fresher perspective, and gradually gain a greater sense of visibility into what the end picture should look like. By adopting this approach we are able to work with a greater sense of speed and efficiency, getting more done in less time. Team Members Our mission is to create a world where everyone can contribute. When everyone can contribute, consumers become contributors, and we greatly increase the rate of human progress through changing creative work from unilateral read-only to collective collaboration and innovation. This mission is integral to our culture, and how we hire, build products, and lead our industry. The DevOps Platform brings together developers, operations and security professionals and elevates their innovation to new levels, making it faster, safer, and more accessible. We are an all-remote company, and we pride ourselves in how we work through enabling our team members the individualized flexibility to reach their business results. We believe this leads to a team that is continually engaged and passionate about the positive impact of The DevOps Platform. As of January 31, 2022, we had approximately 1,630 team members in over 68 countries. We engage our team members in various ways, including through direct employment, PEOs, and as independent contractors. In the locations where we use PEOs, we contract with the PEO for it to serve as Employer of Record for team members engaged through the PEOs. Team members are employed by the PEO but provide services to GitLab. We also engage team members through a PEO self-employed model in certain jurisdictions where we contract with the PEO, which in turn contracts with individual team members as independent contractors. None of our team members are represented by a labor union. In certain countries in which we operate, we are subject to, and comply with, local labor law requirements which may automatically make our team members subject to industry-wide collective bargaining agreements or works counsel. We have not experienced any work stoppages. We work to identify, attract, and retain team members who are aligned with and will help us progress with our mission, and we seek to provide competitive cash and equity compensation. We believe we have a strong and open relationship with our team members and our unique mission, culture and values differentiate us and continue to be key drivers of our business success. Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Mission Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging is fundamental to our success. We include it in every way possible and in all that we do. We strive for a transparent environment where all globally dispersed voices are heard and welcomed. We strive for an environment where people can show up as their full selves each day and can contribute to their best ability. And with over 100,000 organizations utilizing GitLab across the globe, we strive for a team that is representative of our users. Compensation, Benefits and Perks We provide team members with competitive compensation packages that include base salaries and equity awards, including restricted stock units. We are an open organization, and we want to be as transparent as possible about our compensation principles. Our compensation model is open to data 13 Table of Contents driven iterations. Additional benefits programs (which vary by country and region) include a 401(k) Plan with a company match, healthcare, vision, and dental insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, flexible paid time off, parental leave, and other benefits tailored to the specific needs of our employees such as family forming, caregiving and mental health resources. Throughout the course of the year, we also encourage team members to take part in various sponsorship and volunteer initiatives that support and ultimately uplift their local communities. As with our unique ways of working, GitLab and its team members have identified and sought out opportunities for impact that speak back not only to our values but our all-remote nature. Our Open Source Philosophy We recognize that it is imperative to balance our need to generate revenue with the needs of the open source software project. To determine what is available in our free tier and what is available only in our paid tiers, we first assess who cares the most about the feature. Individual contributors rarely purchase The DevOps Platform, and thus, if the feature is something primarily individuals care about it will be open source. If the features are something primarily managers, directors, or executives care about, then it will be source-available. When considering buyers as part of product tiering decisions we use the following guidance: Premium is for team(s) usage, with the purchasing decision led by one or more directors Ultimate is for strategic organizational usage, with the purchasing decision led by one or more executives We want to be good stewards of our open source solution, so we aim to provide much of The DevOps Platform to the market for free. Having all stages of the platform available to users for free encourages cross-stage adoption and more collaboration and helps users see the benefit of a single application approach. Including all major features in our free tier helps us keep our codebase for the free and paid tiers similar, which helps us carry forward our promise of being good stewards of our open source solution without diverging codebases. We seek to clearly and consistently articulate our monetization strategy on teams and organizations to provide predictability to both our customers as well as the community of contributors. Our open source approach is intended to increase our development velocity as the developer pool who contributes to our codebase is greater than the size of any single engineering organization. As of January 31, 2022, more than 2,900 individuals have contributed to The DevOps Platform and since April 30, 2019 community contributions have averaged more than 200 per month. Because people outside of our organization can read our code, users can contribute to identifying and solving issues, which accelerates the time we can release new software to market. This has also been a big contribution to enabling us to release a new version of our software for 124 months in a row and counting as of January 31, 2022. We believe our open source approach helps us acquire, retain, and grow our paying customer base. They benefit from the advanced innovation that comes from distributed development, the documentation, best practices, and knowledge sharing across our community, as well as the engagement of making their own contributions back to our codebase. The DevOps Platform and Plans We offer The DevOps Platform in three different subscription plans: Free, Premium and Ultimate. While our Free tier platform includes significant functionality for individual users, our paid tiers include features that are more relevant for managers, directors, and executives. Our Free Plan caters to capabilities needed by individual contributors to do their daily jobs. 14 Table of Contents Our Premium Plan builds on the capabilities of the Free Plan while also adding functionality intended specifically for managers and directors to help teams enhance collaboration between development and operations teams, manage projects and portfolios, and accelerate the deployment of code. Our Ultimate Plan provides further functionality for executives and has functions to help organizations establish better collaboration between development, operations, and security teams, instill organizational wide security, compliance and planning practices, and implement full value stream measurement, analytics, and reporting, across the DevOps lifecycle. Our subscription plans are available as a self-managed offering which customers download to run in their own public, private, or hybrid cloud environments, and also a SaaS offering which is managed by us and hosted in the public cloud. Research and Development Strategy We ship features and components of features at a high velocity in the smallest possible increments to optimize for code quality, efficiency and speed. As each feature is typically similar in size, we are able to measure and track our development team's efficacy by counting the number of merge requests, or a request to merge one branch of code into another. We believe that our development approach, using The DevOps Platform, is a key competitive advantage. We make product investment decisions based on each stages contribution to revenue, monthly active usage, and served addressable market size. Currently the majority of our development costs are in Create (Source Code Management), Verify (Continuous Integration), Secure (Application Security Testing), and Manage (Analytics and Administrative capabilities). Our research and development team consists of our architects, software engineers, security experts, DevOps engineers, product management, quality assurance, and data collection teams. We intend to continue to invest in our research and development capabilities to extend The DevOps Platform and products. Our Technology Our single application strategy means that we have one codebase to author, test, secure, package, and distribute. This also means we are able to give users the most choice. Our customers can use a SaaS subscription or run The DevOps Platform themselves in a self-managed way in their own cloud environments. For self-managed users GitLab is the only truly public-cloud-agnostic solution. Customers can also run The DevOps Platform in their own data centers if they wish. They can further choose to run GitLab on traditional servers, or they can use containers and an orchestration system like Kubernetes. From an end user standpoint, our single application strategy provides one consistent user interface across all stages of the DevOps lifecycle. We see this result in a manifold reduction in lifecycle time for software development teams. For integrators, GitLab has a single API to write integrations against, as opposed to a fragmented tool chain. For IT system administrators and internal security teams this also means they have one application environment and authentication system to inspect and certify according to their companys standards. Our Customers We serve organizations of all sizes across industries and regions. As of January 31, 2022 , we had customers in over 140 countries. We believe our customer growth is best represented by the number of our Base Customers, which increased to 4,593 as of January 31, 2022 from 2,745 as of January 31, 2021. In 2019, we began to invest more heavily in our enterprise sales motion and have had strong success in attracting, retaining, and growing ARR from our larger customers. For the year ended January 31, 2022, more than 60% of our ARR came from enterprise customers. Our success has been 15 Table of Contents exemplified by the growth in our $100,000 ARR customers to 492 as of January 31, 2022 from 283 as of January 31, 2021. Further, during these same periods we grew our $1.0 million ARR customers to 39 from 20, an increase of 95%. We have key reference customers across a breadth of industry verticals that we believe validate The DevOps Platform, and our customers range from small and medium-sized organizations to Fortune 500 companies. No customer represented more tha n 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2022 or fiscal 2021. Sales and Marketing Our go-to-market strategy spans a self-service buying experience, high velocity inside sales, and a dedicated outbound enterprise sales team. We segment our sales organization by size and region, with an additional vertical focus on the public sector. Our sales organization succeeds because of our transparent, cross-functional collaboration and a commitment to over-performance, efficiency, diversity, and constant improvement. Our customer success team, or CS, manages our technical relationships with customers both pre-sale and long-term partnerships post-sale. CS works to help customers achieve positive business results with GitLab by building awareness, adoption, usage, performance, and modern DevOps capabilities. We believe this focus on business results and engaged partnership maximizes long-term, sustainable customer value and drives expansion with our existing customers. Through our commitment to open collaboration, we also have select technology and channel partners who increase efficient access to new customers and support growth of existing customers through trusted relationships, existing contracts, service delivery capability and capacity, and collaboration on large digital transformations. These partners include systems integrators, cloud platform partners, independent software vendors, managed service providers, resellers, distributors, and ecosystem partners. Our partnership program provides additional rewards for partners that make commitments to and investments in a deeper GitLab relationship. Our marketing department is focused on generating awareness of The DevOps Platform to our developer community, existing customers and users, and potential customers. We utilize diverse tactics such as digital demand generation, account based marketing, nurture programs, sales development, virtual and field events, sponsored webcasts, gated content downloads, whitepapers, display advertising and integrated campaigns to connect with prospective customers. We also host and present at regional, national and global events, including our own annual user conference called Commit, to engage both customers and prospects. We offer our Free tier and/or a free trial to prospective customers allowing them to try before they buy, allowing customers to see the strengths of The DevOps Platform and the business benefits. We are then able to engage with these users to encourage them to upgrade to a paid version. Once a customer is onboarded with GitLab, our teams work to identify additional business units and parent/child/subsidiary prospects that would benefit from The DevOps Platform. Finally, as engaged members of the open-source community, our contributors often serve as subject matter experts at market-leading developer events, and The DevOps Platform is presented on the cutting edge of innovation. Competition The markets we serve are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. With the introduction of new technologies and innovations, we expect the competitive environment to remain intense. We view our primary current competition as customers legacy approach of DIY DevOps, using a combination of point tools manually integrated together. Our offering is substantially different in that it is one platform, one codebase, one interface and a unified data model that spans the entire DevOps lifecycle. We expect that the competition from DIY DevOps will decrease over time as companies realize the shortcomings in this approach. To ensure easy transitions for customers and support for 16 Table of Contents dependencies on internal and external tools, we support staged adoption while continuing the use of some legacy tools. Beyond this legacy approach of DIY DevOps, our principal competitor is Microsoft Corporation following their acquisition of GitHub. There are also a number of other private and public companies whose products address only a portion of the DevOps lifecycle and/or are cobbled together from several point solutions. These are essentially third-party DIY DevOps and are not a single application. We believe we compete favorably based on the following competitive factors: ability to provide a single application that is purpose-built to span the entire DevOps lifecycle; ability to rapidly innovate and consistently ship and release more features and versions of our software; maturity of features in the Create (source code management) and Verify (continuous integration) stages; ability to run natively across any public cloud, private cloud, hybrid cloud, or on-premises environment; ability to enable collaboration between developers, IT operations, and security teams; ability to reduce handoffs, friction, and switching costs across different stages of the DevOps lifecycle; ability to reduce software development times to release better software faster; ability to consolidate multiple tools into a single platform; ability to eliminate manual integrations that are costly and time-effective to maintain; ability to provide a seamless, consistent, and single user experience through one user interface; ability to deliver a large, engaging community of open source contributors; performance, scalability, and reliability; ability to implement strong security and governance; quality of service and overall customer satisfaction; and strong documentation and transparency of information. Corporate Philanthropy As part of our mission to create a world where everyone can contribute, we believe it is important to support organizations that can further this goal at local and global levels. To further this mission, in September 2021, our board of directors approved the reservation of up to 1,635,545 shares of Class A common stock for the issuance to charitable organizations, to be further designated by our board of directors. Government Regulation We are subject to many varying laws and regulations in the United States and throughout the world, including those related to data privacy, security and protection, intellectual property, worker classification, employment and labor, workplace safety, consumer protection, anti-bribery, import and export controls, immigration, federal securities and tax. 17 Table of Contents Moreover, new and existing laws and regulations (or changes in interpretation of existing laws and regulations) may also be adopted, implemented, or interpreted to apply to us or our contributors, and uncertainty around the application of these laws may affect demand for our platform. Additionally, as our platforms geographic scope expands, regulatory agencies or courts may claim that we are subject to additional requirements, or are prohibited from conducting our business in or with certain jurisdictions, either generally or with respect to certain services, or that we are otherwise required to change our business practices. We believe we are in material compliance with such laws and regulations and do not expect continued compliance to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. We continue to monitor existing and pending laws and regulations and while the impact of regulatory changes cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not expect compliance to have a material adverse effect on our business. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more comprehensive description of risks related to government regulation affecting our business. Intellectual Property The protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important aspect of our business. We rely upon a combination of trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights, patents, confidentiality procedures, contractual commitments, domain names, and other legal rights to establish and protect our intellectual property. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements and invention or work product assignment agreements with our officers, team members, agents, contractors, and business partners to control access to, and clarify ownership of, our proprietary information. As of January 31, 2022, we ha d five issued patents and two pending patent applications in the United States and abroad. These patents and patent applications seek to protect proprietary inventions relevant to our business. The issued patents are scheduled to expire on or around the years between 2034 and 2036 and cover a means of undertaking metaphor-based language code fuzzing relating to testing of code. As of January 31, 2022, we had three trademark registrations in the United States, including registrations for GITLAB and our logo. We also had 11 trademark registrations and applications in certain other jurisdictions and regions. Additionally, we are the registered holder of a number of domain names, including gitlab.com. We are dedicated to open source software. Our product incorporates many components subject to open source software licenses, and in turn we license many significant components of our software under open source software licenses. Such licenses grant licensees broad permissions to use, copy, modify and redistribute the covered software which can limit the value of our software copyright assets. Legal Proceedings We are, and from time to time, we may become involved in legal proceedings or be subject to claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. We are not presently a party to any legal proceedings that in the opinion of our management, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Defending such proceedings is costly and can impose a significant burden on management and team members. The results of any current or future litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and regardless of the outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. Corporate Information We were incorporated in the State of Delaware as GitLab Inc. in September 2014. We are a remote-only company, meaning that all of our team members work remotely. Due to this, we do not currently have a principal executive office. Our website address is https://about.gitlab.com. The information 18 Table of Contents contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not a part of this prospectus. Investors should not rely on any such information in deciding whether to purchase our Class A common stock. Unless otherwise indicated, the terms GitLab, the company, we, us, and our refer to GitLab Inc. and our subsidiaries, and references to our common stock include our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. GitLab, the GitLab logo, and other registered or common law trade names, trademarks, or service marks of GitLab appearing in this prospectus are the property of GitLab. This prospectus contains additional trade names, trademarks, and service marks of ours and of other companies. We do not intend our use or display of other companies trade names, trademarks, or service marks to imply a relationship with these other companies, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by these other companies. Other trademarks appearing in this prospectus are the property of their respective holders. Solely for convenience, our trademarks and trade names referred to in this prospectus appear without the and symbols, but those references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights, or the right of the applicable licensor, to these trademarks and trade names. Available Information We file electronically with the SEC our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file with the SEC electronically. We will make available on our website at https://about.gitlab.com, free of charge, copies of these reports and other information as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We use our investor relations page on our website (https://about.gitlab.com), press releases, public conference calls, public webcasts, our Twitter account (@gitlab), our Facebook page, our LinkedIn page, our company news site (https://about.gitlab.com/press/) and our corporate blog (https://about.gitlab.com/blog/) as means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The information disclosed by the foregoing channels could be deemed to be material information. As such, we encourage investors, the media, and others to follow the channels listed above and to review the information disclosed through such channels. Any updates to the list of disclosure channels through which we will announce information will be posted on the investor relations page on our website. The contents of the websites referred to above are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. Our business, financial condition, operating results, or prospects could also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material. If any of the risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Position Our business and operations have experienced rapid growth, and if we do not appropriately manage future growth, if any, or are unable to improve our systems, processes and controls, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects will be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth and increased demand for our products. Our total number of Base Customers has grown to 4,593 as of January 31, 2022 from 2,745 as of January 31, 2021 . Our team member headcount has also increased significantly, and we expect to continue to grow our headcount over the next year. The growth and expansion of our business places a continuous significant strain on our management and operational and financial resources. In addition, as customers adopt our products for an increasing number of use cases, we have had to support more complex commercial relationships. We must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, our security and compliance requirements, our operating and administrative systems, our relationships with various partners and other third parties, and our ability to manage headcount and processes in an efficient manner to manage our growth effectively. We may not be able to sustain the pace of improvements to our products successfully or implement systems, processes, and controls in an efficient or timely manner or in a manner that does not negatively affect our results of operations. Our failure to improve our systems, processes, and controls, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to forecast our revenue, expenses, and earnings accurately, or to prevent losses. Our recent growth may not be indicative of our future growth, and we may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate in the future. Our growth also makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. Our total revenue for the years ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 was $252.7 million and $152.2 million , respectively, representing a growth rate of 66% . You should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarter or annual period as an indication of our future performance. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to accurately forecast our future results of operations is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. Our historical revenue growth should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Further, in future periods, our revenue could decline or our revenue growth rate could slow. Many factors may contribute to this decline, including changes to technology, increased competition, slowing demand for The DevOps Platform, the maturation of our business, a failure by us to continue capitalizing on growth opportunities, our failure, for any reason, to continue to take advantage of growth opportunities and a global economic downturn, among others. If our growth rate declines, investors perceptions of our business and the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents In addition, we expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on: expansion and enablement of our sales, services, and marketing organization to increase brand awareness and drive adoption of The DevOps Platform; product development, including investments in our product development team and the development of new features and functionality for The DevOps Platform; technology and sales channel partnerships; international expansion; acquisitions or strategic investments; and general administration, including increased legal and accounting expenses associated with being a public company. These investments may not result in increased revenue in our business. If we are unable to maintain or increase our revenue at a rate sufficient to offset the expected increase in our costs, our business, financial position and results of operations will be harmed, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Our ability to forecast our future results of operations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to effectively plan for and model future growth. We have encountered in the past, and may encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, or if we are not able to accurately forecast future growth, our business would be harmed. Moreover, if the assumptions that we use to plan our business are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our market, or we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our share price could be volatile, and it may be difficult to achieve and maintain profitability. We have a history of losses, anticipate increases in our operating expenses in the future, and may not achieve or sustain profitability on a consistent basis. If we cannot achieve and sustain profitability, our business, financial condition, and operating results may be adversely affected. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception, including net losses of approximately $192.2 million and $155.1 million in fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2022, respectively. As of January 31, 2022 , we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $553.3 million. While we have experienced significant growth in revenue in recent periods, we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in future periods or that, if at any time we are profitable, we will sustain profitability. We also expect our operating and other expenses to increase in the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in our future growth, including expanding our research and development function to drive further development of The DevOps Platform, expanding our sales and marketing activities, developing the functionality to expand into adjacent markets, and reaching customers in new geographic locations, which will negatively affect our operating results if our total revenue does not increase. In addition to the anticipated costs to grow our business, we also expect to incur significant additional legal, accounting, and other expenses as a newly public company. These efforts and additional expenses may be more costly than we expect, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase our revenue to offset our operating expenses. Our revenue growth may slow or our revenue may decline for a number of reasons, including reduced demand for The DevOps Platform, increased competition, an increased use of our free product offerings, a decrease in the growth or reduction in size of our overall market, or any inability on our part to capitalize on growth opportunities. Further, as our SaaS offering makes up an increasing percentage of our total revenue, we expect to see increased associated cloud-related costs, such as hosting and managing costs, which may adversely impact our gross margins. Any failure to increase our revenue or to manage our costs as we continue to grow and invest in our business would prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability or 21 Table of Contents maintaining positive operating cash flow at all or on a consistent basis, which would cause our business, financial condition, and results of operations to suffer. As we continue to invest in infrastructure, develop our services and features, increase our headcount and expand our sales and marketing activity, we may continue to have losses in future periods and these may increase significantly. As a result, our losses in future periods may be significantly greater than the losses we would incur if we developed our business more slowly. In addition, we may find that these efforts require greater investment of time, human and capital resources than we currently anticipate and/or that they may not result in increases in our revenues or billings. Any failure by us to achieve and sustain profitability on a consistent basis could cause the value of our Class A common stock to decline. We face intense competition and could lose market share to our competitors, which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. The markets for our services are highly competitive, with limited barriers to entry. Competition presents an ongoing threat to the success of our business. We expect competition in the software business generally, and in web-based code hosting and collaboration services, in particular, to continue to increase. We expect to continue to face intense competition from current competitors, as well as from new entrants into the market. If we are unable to anticipate or react to these challenges, our competitive position would weaken, and we would experience a decline in revenue or reduced revenue growth, and loss of market share that would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We face competition in several areas due to the nature of our product. Our product offering is broad across ten stages of the software development lifecycle which has us competing with many providers with offerings from one to all ten stages. We compete with well-established providers such as Atlassian and Microsoft as well as other companies with offerings in fewer stages including with respect to both code hosting and code collaboration services, as well as file storage and distribution services. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have more capital to invest in their businesses. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including the following: ability of our products or of those of our competitors to deliver the positive business outcomes prioritized and valued by our customers and prospects; our ability to price our products competitively, including our ability to transition users of our free product offering to a paying version of The DevOps Platform; the amount and quality of communications, postings, and sharing by our users on public forums, which can promote improvements on The DevOps Platform but may also lead to disclosure of commercially sensitive details; the timing and market acceptance of services, including the developments and enhancements to those services offered by us or our competitors; our ability to monetize activity on our services; customer service and support efforts; sales and marketing efforts; ease of use, performance and reliability of solutions developed either by us or our competitors; our ability to manage our operations in a cost effective manner; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our product offering; 22 Table of Contents our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors; introduction of new technologies or standards that compete with or are unable to be adopted in our products; ability to attract new team members or retain existing team members which could affect our ability to attract new customers, service existing customers, enhance our product or handle our business needs; our ability to maintain and grow our community of users; and the length and complexity of our sales cycles. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than we do. Furthermore, our current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources and the ability to initiate or withstand substantial price competition. In addition, many of our competitors have established sales and marketing relationships and have access to larger customer bases. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their product offerings or resources. These factors may allow our competitors to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer preferences. These competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies which may undercut our pricing policies and allow them to build a larger user base or to monetize that user base more effectively than us. If our competitors products, platforms, services or technologies maintain or achieve greater market acceptance than ours, if they are successful in bringing their products or services to market earlier than ours, or if their products, platforms or services are more technologically capable than ours, then our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, some of our competitors may offer their products and services at a lower price. If we are unable to achieve our target pricing levels, our operating results would be negatively affected. Pricing pressures and increased competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or a failure to maintain or improve our competitive market position, any of which could adversely affect our business. The market for our services is new and unproven and may not grow, which would adversely affect our future results and the trading price of our Class A common stock. Because the market for our services is relatively new and rapidly evolving, it is difficult to predict customer adoption, customer demand for our services, the size and growth rate of this market, the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive services. Any expansion or contraction in our market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with our services and the appetite and ability of customers to use and pay for the services we provide. Further, even if the overall market for the type of services we provide continues to grow, we face intense competition from larger and more well-established providers and we may not be able to compete effectively or achieve market acceptance of our products. If we or other software and SaaS providers experience security incidents, loss of customer data, or disruptions in delivery or service, the market for these applications as a whole, including The DevOps Platform and products, may be negatively affected. If the market for our services does not achieve widespread adoption, we do not compete effectively in this market, or there is a reduction in demand for our software or our services in our market caused by a lack of customer acceptance, implementation challenges for deployment, technological challenges, lack of accessible data, competing technologies and services, decreases in corporate spending, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, weakening economic conditions, or otherwise, it could result in reduced customer orders and decreased revenues, which would adversely affect our business operations and financial results. 23 Table of Contents We are dependent on sales and marketing strategies to drive our growth in our revenue. These sales and marketing strategies may not be successful in continuing to generate sufficient sales opportunities. Any decline in our customer renewals and expansions could harm our future operating results. Our business model depends on generating and maintaining a large user base that is extremely satisfied with The DevOps Platform. We rely on satisfied customers to expand their footprint by buying new products and services and onboarding additional users. The model is dependent on converting non-paying users to paying users. We have limited historical data with respect to the number of current and previous free users and the rates in which customers convert to paying customers, so we may not accurately predict future customer purchasing trends. In future periods, our growth could slow or our profits could decline for several reasons, including decreased demand for our product offerings and our professional services, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, a decrease in corporate spending, or our failure, for any reason, to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. We may be forced to change or abandon our subscription based revenue model in order to compete with our competitors offerings. It could also become increasingly difficult to predict revenue and timing of collections as our mix of annual, multi-year and other types of transactions changes as a result of our expansion into cloud-based offerings. Our failure to execute on our revenue projections could impair our ability to meet our business objectives and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell more subscriptions and additional services to our current customers. If our customers do not purchase additional subscriptions and services from us, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be harmed. Paying customers may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction with our services and our end-customer support, the frequency and severity of product outages, our product uptime or latency, their satisfaction with the speed of delivering new features, and the pricing of our, or competing, services. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of paying customers buying more seats, uptiering, downtiering and churning, so we may not accurately predict future customer trends. Our customer expansions and renewals may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including: quality of our sales efforts customer usage, customer satisfaction with our services and customer support, our prices, the prices of competing services, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, the effects of global economic conditions, or reductions in our customers spending levels generally. Further, we have discontinued our starter and bronze tier product offerings, and users of these products will be required to upgrade to our paid offerings, switch to our free product or discontinue using our products. We cannot assure you that our customers will purchase our products, and if our end customers do not purchase our products, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected or decline. Transparency is one of our core values. While we will continue to prioritize transparency, we must also promote "responsible" transparency as transparency can have unintended negative consequences. Transparency is one of our core values. As an all-remote open-source software company, we believe transparency is essential to how we operate our business and interact with our team members, the community, and our customers. We also find it to be critical for team member recruitment, retention, efficiency and our culture. In addition, our transparency is highly valued by both our customers and our contributors. While we will continue to emphasize transparency, we also promote and educate our team members about responsible internal and external transparency, as openly sharing certain types of information can potentially lead to unintended, and sometimes negative, consequences. As a result of our transparency, our competitors and other outside parties may have access to certain information that is often kept confidential or internal at other companies through our Handbook, our team 24 Table of Contents members open and public use of The DevOps Platform to run our business, and other avenues of communication we commonly use. The public availability of this information may allow our competitors to take advantage of certain of our innovations, and may allow parties to take other actions, including litigation, that may have an adverse impact on our operating results or cause reputational harm, which in turn may have a negative economic impact. We are also subject to Regulation FD, which imposes restrictions on the selective disclosure of material information to stockholders and other market participants, and other regulations. While we have implemented internal controls to maintain compliance with Regulation FD, if as a result of our transparency, we disclose material information in a non-Regulation FD compliant matter, we may be subject to heightened regulatory and litigation risk. The Handbook may not be up to date or accurate, which may result in negative third-party scrutiny or be used in ways that adversely affects our business. Consistent with our commitment to our transparency and efficiency values, we maintain a publicly available company Handbook that contains important information about our operations and business practices. This Handbook is open to the public and may be used by our competitors or bad actors in malicious ways that may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Although we aim to keep the Handbook updated, the information in the Handbook may not be up to date at all times. Also, because any of our team members can contribute to the Handbook, the information in the Handbook may not be accurate. We have implemented disclosure