Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on February 18, 2022. Realignment of the B2B portion of our former Business and Consumer Solutions segment into our Issuer Solutions segment did not have a material effect on our comparison of the segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Executive Overview We are a leading payments technology company delivering innovative software and services to our customers globally. Our technologies, services and team member expertise allow us to provide a broad range of solutions that enable our customers to operate their businesses more efficiently across a variety of channels around the world. We have grown organically as well as through acquisitions and continue to invest in new technology solutions and innovation, infrastructure to support our growing business and the continued consolidation and enhancement of our operating platforms. These investments include new product development and innovation to further enhance and differentiate our suite of technology and cloud-based solutions available to customers, along with migration of certain underlying technology platforms to cloud environments to enhance performance, improve speed to market and drive cost efficiencies. We also continue to enhance our business operating model through execution of merger and integration and other activities, such as combining business operations, streamlining technology infrastructure, eliminating duplicative corporate and operational support structures and realizing scale efficiencies. Highlights related to our financial condition at December 31, 2022 and results of operations for the year then ended include the following: Consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased to $8,975.5 million, compared to $8,523.8 million for the prior year. The increase in consolidated revenues was primarily due to an increase in transaction volumes as a result of growth in our customer base, acceleration in the use of digital payment solutions and continued economic recovery from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by the effects of unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates. Merchant Solutions segment and Issuer Solutions segment operating income and operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to the favorable effect of increases in revenues, since certain fixed costs do not vary with revenues, and continued prudent expense management, partially offset by the effects of unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates. Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2022 included the unfavorable effects of an $833.1 million goodwill impairment charge related to our former Business and Consumer Solutions reporting unit, a charge of $71.9 million to reduce the carrying amount of the consumer business disposal group to estimated fair value less costs to sell and a $127.2 million loss related to the sale of our Merchant Solutions business in Russia. We have executed on our business strategy through the execution of several recent strategic transactions as follows: On August 1, 2022, we entered into a merger agreement to acquire EVO Payments, Inc. (EVO) for total purchase consideration of approximately $4 billion. EVO is a leading payment technology and services provider, offering an array of payment solutions to merchants ranging from small and middle market enterprises to multinational companies and organizations across the Americas and Europe. The acquisition is expected to close in the first quarter of 2023, subject to customary closing conditions. On July 31, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the consumer portion of our Netspend business for $1 billion, subject to certain closing adjustments. In connection with the sale, we will provide $675 million of seller financing and a first lien five-year $50 million secured revolving facility that will be available from the date of closing of the sale. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2023, subject to required regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. On December 6, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our gaming business for approximately $400 million, subject to certain closing adjustments. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2023 and is subject to customary terms and conditions, including any required regulatory approvals. 34 Table of Contents Our capital allocation priorities were supported by the successful issuance of new senior notes, convertible notes and an increased credit facility during 2022. On August 8, 2022, we issued $1.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of 1.000% convertible unsecured senior notes (the Convertible Notes) due 2029 in a private placement pursuant to an investment agreement with Silver Lake Partners. The Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holder at any time after 18 months into cash and shares of our common stock based on an initial conversion rate of 7.1089 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $140.67 per share). In connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, we entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions with certain financial institutions to hedge the potential dilutive effect upon conversion of the Convertible Notes or offset our cash obligation if the cash settlement option were to be elected. On August 19, 2022, we entered into a credit agreement for an unsubordinated unsecured $5.75 billion revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), and all borrowings outstanding and other amounts due under our prior credit facility (the "Prior Credit Facility") were repaid and the Prior Credit Facility was terminated. On August 22, 2022, we issued $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes consisting of the following: (i) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.950% senior notes due August 2027; (ii) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.300% senior notes due August 2029; (iii) $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.400% senior notes due August 2032; and (iv) $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.950% senior notes due August 2052. The net proceeds from the offering have been or will be used to refinance the outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility, to make cash payments and pay transaction fees and expenses in connection with the pending acquisition of EVO, to refinance certain outstanding indebtedness of EVO in connection with the acquisition and for general corporate purposes. Emerging Trends The payments technology industry continues to grow worldwide and as a result, certain large payment technology companies, including us, have expanded operations globally by pursuing acquisitions and creating alliances and joint ventures. We expect to continue to expand into new markets and pursue additional acquisitions and joint ventures in existing markets to increase our scale and improve our competitiveness. The industry continues to grow globally as a result of wider merchant acceptance and increased use of credit and debit cards, advances in payment processing technology and migration to ecommerce, omnichannel and contactless payment solutions. The proliferation of credit and debit cards, as well as other digital payment solutions, has made the acceptance of digital payments a virtual necessity for many businesses, regardless of size, in order to remain competitive. Furthermore, the expanding digitization of the economy and availability and access to financial services increases the demand for cards and digital payment solutions, which in turn drives growth in acceptance and transaction volumes. The use of digital payment solutions, the need for development of technologies and digital-based solutions and expansion of ecommerce, omnichannel and contactless payment solutions has accelerated, in part as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe that the number of digital payment transactions will continue to grow and that an increasing percentage of these will be facilitated through emerging technologies. As a result, we expect an increasing portion of our future capital investment will be allocated to support the development of new and emerging technologies, including technology modernization, innovation and integration through strategic partnerships. We also believe new markets will continue to develop and expand in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions. We expect industries such as education, government and healthcare, as well as recurring payments and B2B payments, to continue to see transactions migrate to digital-based solutions. We anticipate that the continued development of new services and technologies, the emergence of new vertical markets and continued expansion of technology-enabled ecommerce and omnichannel solutions, including expanded scale and market reach through new innovative cloud-based capabilities and strategic partnerships, will be a factor in the growth of our business and our revenues in the future. For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our continuing operating results, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A. 35 Table of Contents Macroeconomic Effects and Other Global Conditions Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions We are exposed to general economic conditions, including currency fluctuations, inflation, rising interest rates and health and social events or conditions that affect the overall level of consumer, business and government spending, which could negatively affect our financial performance. Certain of our operations are conducted in foreign currencies. Consequently, a portion of our revenues and expenses has been and may continue to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. During 2022, the U.S. dollar strengthened against most foreign currencies in the markets in which we operate. For the year ended December 31, 2022, currency exchange rate fluctuations decreased our consolidated revenues by approximately $164.4 million and decreased our operating income by approximately $60.4 million, calculated by converting revenues and operating income for the current year in local currencies using exchange rates for the prior year. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar or other significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in an adverse effect on our future financial results; however, we are unable to predict the extent of the potential effect on our financial results. We also continue to closely monitor developments related to other macroeconomic conditions, including continued inflation and rising interest rates. We have reduced our interest rate risk through issuance of fixed rate debt in place of variable rate debt. However, inflationary pressure or interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial performance as a result of higher costs and/or lower consumer spending. In addition, continued inflation or a rise in interest rates could result in an adverse effect on our future financial results and the recoverability of assets; however, as the future magnitude, duration and effects of these conditions are difficult to predict at this time, we are unable to predict the extent of the potential effect on our financial results. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused and may continue to cause significant disruptions to businesses and markets worldwide through the continued spread of the virus, including through a resurgence of COVID-19 cases or emergence of new virus variants in certain jurisdictions. The pandemic and measures to prevent its spread have affected and may continue to affect our financial results in various geographic locations as a result of volatility in spending and transaction volumes as governments implement or ease restrictions in response to the virus. While we saw signs of economic recovery during 2022, which positively affected our financial results, some countries have faced more challenging circumstances in trying to contain a resurgence of infections. Although the immediate effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have been assessed, the long-term effects on future global economic conditions and related effects on our business and financial condition are difficult to predict. Invasion of Ukraine by Russia We continue to evaluate the potential effects on our business from other economic conditions and global events, including the ongoing invasion of Ukraine by Russia that began in February 2022. Prior to its sale, our business in Russia represented an immaterial portion of our operations and financial results. We have no team members or operations in Ukraine. The invasion of Ukraine by Russia and the related sanctions and other measures imposed in response to this situation have increased the level of economic and political uncertainty in Russia and other areas of the world. The extent to which the effects of the invasion of Ukraine by Russia will affect the global economy and our operations outside of Russia is difficult to predict at this time. However, a significant escalation, expansion of the scope or continuation of the related economic disruption could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our continuing operating results, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A. Results of Operations Revenues Merchant Solutions. The majority of our Merchant Solutions segment revenues is generated by services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type or industry vertical. We also earn software subscription and licensing fees, as well as other fees for specific value-added services that may be unrelated to the number or value of transactions. These revenues depend upon a number of factors, such as demand for and price of our services, the technological competitiveness of our offerings, our reputation for providing timely and reliable service, competition within our industry and general economic conditions. 36 Table of Contents We provide payment technology and software solutions to customers and fund settlement either directly, in markets where we have direct membership with the payment networks, or through our relationship with a member financial institution in markets where we are sponsored. Revenues are generally recognized as billed to the customer, net of interchange fees and payment network fees. We market our services through a variety of relationship-led and technology-enabled distribution channels, including a direct sales force, trade associations, agent and enterprise software providers and referral arrangements with value-added resellers ("VARs"). We also sell services to ISOs and financial institutions. In certain of these arrangements, the ISO, financial institution or other external partner receives a share of the customer profitability in the form of a monthly residual payment, which is reflected as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. Issuer Solutions. Issuer Solutions segment revenues are primarily derived from long-term processing contracts with financial institutions and other financial services providers. Payment processing services revenues are generated primarily from charges based on the number of accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, statements generated and/or mailed, managed services, cards embossed and mailed, and other processing services for cardholder accounts on file. Most of these customer contracts have prescribed annual minimums, penalties for early termination, and service level agreements that may affect contractual fees if specific service levels are not achieved. Issuer Solutions revenues also include loyalty redemption services and professional services. Additionally, revenues include fees from B2B payments services and other financial service solutions marketed to corporations, including software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings that enable accounts payables automation, integrated payments, employer disbursement solutions, and virtual card capabilities. Consumer Solutions. Consumer Solutions segment revenues principally consist of fees collected from cardholders and fees generated by cardholder activity in connection with the programs that we manage. Customers are typically charged a fee for each purchase transaction made using their cards, unless the customer is on a monthly or annual service plan, in which case the customer is instead charged a monthly or annual subscription fee, as applicable. Customers are also charged a monthly maintenance fee after a specified period of inactivity. We also charge fees associated with additional services offered in connection with certain cards, including the use of overdraft features, a variety of bill payment options, card replacement, foreign exchange and card-to-card transfers of funds initiated through our call centers. Revenues are recognized net of fees charged by the payment networks for services they provide in processing transactions routed through them. Operating Expenses Cost of Service. Cost of service consists primarily of salaries, wages and related expenses paid to operations and technology-related personnel, including those who monitor our transaction processing systems and settlement functions; the cost of transaction processing systems, including third-party services; the cost of network telecommunications capability; depreciation and occupancy costs associated with the facilities supporting these functions; amortization of intangible assets; amortization of costs to fulfill customer contracts; provisions for operating losses; and, when applicable, integration expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, wages, commissions and related expenses paid to sales personnel, customer support functions other than those supporting revenues, administrative employees and management; share-based compensation expense; amortization of costs to obtain customer contracts; residuals paid to ISOs; fees paid to VARs, independent contractors and other third parties; other selling expenses; occupancy costs of leased space directly related to these functions; advertising costs; and, when applicable, acquisition and integration expenses. Operating Income and Operating Margin For the purpose of discussing segment operations, we refer to "operating income," which is calculated by subtracting segment direct expenses from segment revenues. Overhead and shared expenses, including share-based compensation, are not allocated to segment operations; they are reported in the caption "Corporate." Impairment of goodwill and gains or losses on business dispositions are also not included in determining segment operating income. In addition, in discussing segment operations we refer to "operating margin," which is calculated by dividing segment operating income by segment revenues. Equity in Income of Equity Method Investments We have equity method investments, including a 45% interest in China UnionPay Data Co., Ltd., which we account for using the equity method of accounting. Equity in income of equity method investments reflects our proportional share of earnings from these investments. 37 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021 The following table sets forth key selected financial data for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, this data as a percentage of total revenues, and the changes between periods in dollars and as a percentage of the prior-period amount. The income statement data for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are derived from the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in "