Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on February 17, 2023. 36 Table of Contents Executive Overview We are a leading payments technology company delivering innovative software and services to our customers globally. Our technologies, services and team member expertise allow us to provide a broad range of solutions that enable our customers to operate their businesses more efficiently across a variety of channels around the world. We have grown organically, as well as through acquisitions, and we continue to invest in new and innovative technology solutions, infrastructure to support our growing business and the ongoing consolidation and enhancement of our operating platforms. These investments include new product development and innovation to further enhance and differentiate our suite of technology and cloud-based solutions available to customers, along with migration of certain underlying technology platforms to cloud environments to enhance performance, improve speed to market and drive cost efficiencies. We also continue to execute on integration and other activities, such as combining business operations, streamlining technology infrastructure, eliminating duplicative corporate and operational support structures and realizing scale efficiencies. We have furthered our business strategy through several recent key transactions during 2023 as follows: We completed the acquisition of EVO Payments, Inc. (EVO) for total purchase consideration of $4.3 billion. EVO is a payment technology and services provider, offering payment solutions to merchants ranging from small and middle market enterprises to multinational companies and organizations across the Americas and Europe. The cash portion of the purchase consideration was funded through cash on hand and borrowings from our revolving credit facility. We completed the sale of the consumer portion of our Netspend business for approximately $1 billion. In connection with the sale, we provided $675 million of seller financing and a five-year $50 million secured revolving facility that became available from the date of closing of the sale. We also completed the sale of our gaming business for approximately $400 million. Our capital structure initiatives during 2023 included the issuance of Euro-denominated senior notes and the launch of a commercial paper program: We issued 800 million aggregate principal amount of 4.875% senior unsecured notes due March 2031 and received net proceeds of 790.6 million, or $843.6 million based on the exchange rate on the issuance date. The net proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes. We established a $2.0 billion commercial paper program under which we may issue senior unsecured commercial paper notes with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue as a cost effective means of satisfying our short-term liquidity needs. Highlights related to our financial condition at December 31, 2023, and results of operations for the year then ended, include the following: Consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased to $9,654.4 million, compared to $8,975.5 million for the prior year. The increase in consolidated revenues was primarily due to an increase in transaction volumes, including from the recently acquired EVO business, partially offset by the effects on revenue of the divested businesses. Merchant Solutions and Issuer Solutions segment operating income and operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to the favorable effect of increases in revenues, since certain fixed costs do not vary with revenues, and continued expense management. Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2023 included the favorable effects of the increase in revenues as compared to the prior year, partially offset by an increase in expenses primarily related to the acquisition of EVO. Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2023 also included the effects of a loss on the sale of our consumer business, which was partially offset by a gain on the sale of our gaming business. 37 Table of Contents Continuing and Emerging Trends The payments technology industry continues to evolve and grow worldwide and as a result, certain large payment technology companies, including us, have expanded operations globally by pursuing acquisitions and creating alliances and joint ventures. We expect to continue to expand into new markets and pursue additional acquisitions and joint ventures in existing markets to increase our scale and improve our competitiveness. The industry continues to grow globally as a result of wider merchant acceptance and increased use of credit and debit cards, advances in payment processing technology and migration to ecommerce, omnichannel and contactless payment solutions. The proliferation of credit and debit cards, as well as other digital payment solutions, has made the acceptance of digital payments a virtual necessity for many businesses, regardless of size, in order to remain competitive. Furthermore, the expanding digitization of the economy and availability and access to financial services increases the demand for cards and digital payment solutions, which in turn drives growth in acceptance and transaction volumes. The use of digital payment solutions, the need for development of technologies and digital-based solutions andexpansion of ecommerce, omnichannel and contactless payment solutions has accelerated. We believe that the number of digital payment transactions will continue to grow and that an increasing percentage of these will be facilitated through emerging technologies. As a result, we expect an increasing portion of our future capital investment will be allocated to support the development of new and emerging technologies, including technology modernization, innovation and integration through strategic partnerships. We also believe new markets will continue to develop and expand in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions. We expect industries such as education, government and healthcare, as well as recurring payments and B2B payments, to continue to see transactions migrate to digital-based solutions. We anticipate that the continued development of new services and technologies, the emergence of new vertical markets and continued expansion of technology-enabled ecommerce and omnichannel solutions, including expanded scale and market reach through new innovative cloud-based capabilities and strategic partnerships, will be a factor in the growth of our business and our revenues in the future. Furthermore, due to its benefits and growth potential, we anticipate the increased exploration of use of artificial intelligence in the payments industry. For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our continuing operating results, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A. Macroeconomic Effects and Other Global Conditions Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions We are exposed to general economic conditions, including currency fluctuations, inflation, rising interest rates and other conditions that affect the overall level of consumer, business and government spending, which could negatively affect our financial performance. Certain of our operations are conducted in foreign currencies. Consequently, a portion of our revenues and expenses has been and may continue to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar or other significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in an adverse effect on our future financial results; however, we are unable to predict the extent of the potential effect on our financial results. We have sought to reduce our interest rate risk through issuance of fixed rate debt in place of variable rate debt, including the effect of interest rate swap hedging arrangements to convert a significant portion of the eligible variable rate borrowings under our revolving credit facility to a fixed rate. However, inflationary pressure or interest rate fluctuations have affected and could continue to affect our business and financial performance as a result of higher costs and/or lower consumer spending. In addition, continued inflation or a rise in interest rates could result in an adverse effect on our future financial results and the recoverability of assets. However, as the future magnitude, duration and effects of these conditions are difficult to predict at this time, we are unable to predict the extent of the potential effect on our financial results. In addition, failures of several financial institutions in the first quarter of 2023, including Silicon Valley Bank and Credit Suisse, have created some uncertainty in the global financial markets and a greater focus on the potential failure of other banks in the future. Although we do not have exposure to and did not experience losses as a result of these failures, we regularly maintain cash balances with financial institutions in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit or the equivalent outside the U.S. A disruption in financial markets could impair our banking partners, which could affect our ability to access our cash or cash equivalents, our ability to provide settlement services or our customers' ability to access their existing cash to fulfill their payment obligations to us. The occurrence of these events could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents When adverse macroeconomic conditions arise, we evaluate where we may be able to implement cost-saving measures, including those related to headcount and discretionary expenses. While economic conditions have shown moderate improvement in recent months, a downturn in macroeconomic conditions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Other Global Conditions We continue to evaluate the potential effects on our business from health and social events, including pandemics like the COVID-19 pandemic. Although the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, it caused an economic slowdown and other macroeconomic effects in the U.S. and other markets in which we operate. The global macroeconomic effects of the pandemic may persist for an indefinite period. We also continue to evaluate the potential effects on our business from heightened geopolitical and economic instability or increased difficulty of conducting business in a country or region due to actual or potential political or military conflict or action, such as those arising from recent global events, which have increased the level of economic and political uncertainty in various regions of the world. Although we have not experienced significant exposure or adverse effects on our business and financial results to date, the extent to which these events could affect the global economy and our operations is difficult to predict at this time. However, a significant escalation, expansion of the scope or continuation of the related economic disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our continuing operating results, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A. Results of Operations Revenues Merchant Solutions. The majority of our Merchant Solutions segment revenues is generated by services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type or industry vertical. We also earn software subscription and licensing fees, as well as other fees for specific value-added services that may be unrelated to the number or value of transactions. These revenues depend upon a number of factors, such as demand for and price of our services, the technological competitiveness of our offerings, our reputation for providing timely and reliable service, competition within our industry and general economic conditions. We provide payment technology and software solutions to customers and fund settlement either directly, in markets where we have direct membership with the payment networks, or through our relationship with a member financial institution in markets where we are sponsored. Revenues are generally recognized as billed to the customer, net of interchange fees and payment network fees. We market our services through a variety of relationship-led and technology-enabled distribution channels, including a direct sales force, trade associations, agent and enterprise software providers and referral arrangements with value-added resellers ("VARs"). We also sell services to ISOs, payment facilitators and financial institutions. In certain of these arrangements, the ISO, financial institution or other external partner receives a share of the customer profitability in the form of a monthly residual payment, which is reflected as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. Issuer Solutions. Issuer Solutions segment revenues are primarily derived from long-term processing contracts with financial institutions and other financial services providers. Payment processing services revenues are generated primarily from charges based on the number of accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, statements generated and/or mailed, managed services, cards embossed and mailed, and other processing services for cardholder accounts on file. Most of these customer contracts have prescribed annual minimums, penalties for early termination, and service level agreements that may affect contractual fees if specific service levels are not achieved. Issuer Solutions revenues also include loyalty redemption services, professional services, and fees from B2B payments services and other financial service solutions marketed to businesses, including software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings that automate key procurement processes, provide invoice capture, coding and approval, and enable virtual cards and integrated payments options across a variety of key vertical markets. Consumer Solutions. During the second quarter of 2023, we completed the sale of the consumer portion of our Netspend business, which comprised our former Consumer Solutions segment. For the periods prior to disposition, our Consumer Solutions arrangements included a stand-ready performance obligation to provide account access and facilitate purchase transactions. Revenues principally consisted of fees collected from cardholders and fees generated by cardholder activity in connection with the programs that we managed. Customers were typically charged a fee for each purchase transaction made using their cards, unless the customer was on a monthly or annual service plan, in which case the customer was instead charged 39 Table of Contents a monthly or annual subscription fee, as applicable. Customers were also charged a monthly maintenance fee after a specified period of inactivity. We also charged fees associated with additional services offered in connection with our accounts, including the use of overdraft features, a variety of bill payment options, card replacement, foreign exchange and card-to-card transfers of funds initiated through our call centers.Revenues were recognized net of fees charged by the payment networks for services they provided in processing transactions routed through them. Operating Expenses Cost of Service. Cost of service consists primarily of salaries, wages and related expenses paid to operations and technology-related personnel, including those who monitor our transaction processing systems and settlement functions; the cost of transaction processing systems, including third-party services; the cost of network telecommunications capability; depreciation and occupancy costs associated with the facilities supporting these functions; amortization of intangible assets; costs to fulfill customer contracts; provisions for operating losses; and, when applicable, integration costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, wages, commissions and related expenses paid to sales personnel, customer support functions other than those supporting revenues, administrative employees and management; share-based compensation; costs to obtain customer contracts; residuals paid to ISOs; fees paid to VARs, independent contractors and other third parties; other selling expenses; occupancy costs of leased space directly related to these functions; advertising costs; and, when applicable, acquisition and integration costs. Operating Income and Operating Margin For the purpose of discussing segment operations, we refer to "operating income," which is calculated by subtracting segment direct expenses from segment revenues. Overhead and shared expenses, including share-based compensation, are not allocated to segment operations; they are reported in the caption "Corporate." Impairment of goodwill and gains or losses on business dispositions are also not included in determining segment operating income. In addition, in discussing segment operations we refer to "operating margin," which is calculated by dividing segment operating income by segment revenues. Equity in Income of Equity Method Investments We have equity method investments, including a 45% interest in China UnionPay Data Co., Ltd., which we account for using the equity method of accounting. Equity in income of equity method investments reflects our proportional share of earnings from these investments. 40 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2022 The following table sets forth key selected financial data for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, this data as a percentage of total revenues, and the changes between periods in dollars and as a percentage of the prior-period amount. The income statement data for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 is derived from the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in "