Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a detailed explanation of these results. Fiscal 2013 Acquisitions During fiscal 2013, we completed three strategic acquisitions which expanded our distribution capabilities in the United States, the Asia-Pacific region and Spain. In October 2012, we acquired Accelerated Payment Technologies ("APT"), a U.S. provider of fully-integrated payment technology solutions for small and medium sized merchants for a purchase price of $413.0 million , less working capital. In December 2012, we completed the purchase of HSBC Asia's ("HSBC") 44% interest in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Limited ("GPAP") for $242.0 million . Also in December 2012, Comercia Global Payments Entidad de Pago, S.L. ("Comercia") completed the acquisition of the merchant acquiring business of Banca Civica, S.A. ("Civica") from CaixaBank, S.A. ("CaixaBank"), based in Spain, for 17.5 million ( $22.9 million equivalent as of the acquisition date). Business Description Global Payments Inc. is a leading provider of electronic payments transaction processing services for consumers, merchants, independent sales organizations (ISOs), financial institutions, government agencies and multi-national corporations located throughout the United States, Canada, Brazil, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Czech Republic, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region. We serve as an intermediary to facilitate electronic payment transactions and operate in two business segments, North America Merchant Services and International Merchant Services. We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in September 2000, and we spun-off from our former parent company on January 31, 2001. Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payments business since 1967. Our North America merchant services and International merchant services segments target customers in many vertical industries including financial institutions, gaming, government, health care, professional services, restaurants, retail, universities, nonprofit organizations and utilities. Please see Note 14 - Segment Information in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional segment information and Item 1A - Risk Factors for a discussion of risks involved with our operations. 4 Table of Contents Merchant Services Overview Our merchant acquiring services are similar around the world in that we accept a variety of card and electronic based payments at the point of sale. Our primary business model provides payment products and services directly to merchants as our end customers. We also provide similar products and services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs that, in turn, resell our products and services, in which case, the financial institutions and select ISOs are our end customers. These particular services are marketed in the United States, Canada, and parts of Eastern Europe. We provide our merchant customers with the ability to accept check, card and electronic-based payments. The term merchant generally refers to any organization that accepts credit or debit cards for the payment of goods and services. We sell our services through multiple sales channels around the world and target customers in many vertical industries. Card-based payment forms consist of credit, debit, gift, stored value, and electronic benefits transfer cards. Credit and debit card transaction processing includes the processing of the world's major international card brands, including American Express, China UnionPay, Discover, JCB, MasterCard, Visa and non-traditional payment methods, as well as certain domestic debit networks, such as Interac in Canada. Electronic payment processing involves a consumer or cardholder acquiring goods or services from a merchant and using a credit or debit card or other electronic method as the form of payment. We are the processing intermediary between the merchant, the credit and debit networks and the financial institutions that issue cards. Our comprehensive offerings include terminal sales and deployment, front-end authorization processing, settlement and funding processing, full customer support and help-desk functions, chargeback resolution, industry compliance, PCI security, consolidated billing and statements, and on-line reporting. Our value proposition is to provide high quality, responsive, secure and full end-to-end service to all of our customers. Currently, we focus on merchant customers in the United States, Canada, Brazil, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Czech Republic, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region. The majority of merchant services revenue is generated on services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type. We also charge other fees based on specific services that are unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value. Credit and Debit Card Transaction Processing Credit and debit networks establish uniform regulations that govern much of the payment card industry. During a typical card transaction, the merchant and the card issuer do not interface directly with each other, but instead rely on merchant acquirers. Merchant acquirers are typically financial institutions or independent processors like Global Payments. Global Payments performs a series of services including authorization, electronic draft capture, file transfers to facilitate funds settlement and certain exception-based, back office support services such as chargeback and retrieval resolution. In order to provide credit and signature-based debit card transaction processing services for MasterCard and Visa, we must either be a member of these systems or be designated as a certified processor by MasterCard and Visa in addition to being a Merchant Service Provider by MasterCard and an Independent Sales Organization by Visa. Currently, these designations are dependent upon member clearing banks of either organization sponsoring us and our adherence to the standards of the MasterCard and Visa networks. A financial institution that is a member of the MasterCard and Visa card networks (which we refer to in this discussion as Member) must sponsor an electronic transaction payment processor such as Global Payments. We have financial institution sponsors in the various markets where we facilitate payment transactions with whom we have sponsorship or depository and clearing agreements. These agreements allow us to route transactions under the member banks' control and identification numbers to clear credit card transactions through MasterCard and Visa. Certain of the member financial institutions of MasterCard and Visa are our competitors. MasterCard and Visa set the standards with which we must comply. In certain markets, we are members in various payment networks, allowing us to process and fund transactions without third-party financial institution sponsorship. We intend to pursue memberships in additional markets in the future. In many markets we also provide credit card transaction processing for Discover Financial Services or Discover Card (Discover) and are designated as an acquirer by Discover. This designation provides us with a direct relationship between us and Discover, and therefore a Member sponsorship is not required. Our agreement with Discover allows us to route and clear transactions directly through Discover's network. Otherwise, we process Discover transactions similarly to the way we process MasterCard and Visa transactions. Discover publishes acquirer operating regulations with which we must comply. We use our Members to assist in funding merchants for Discover transactions. Additionally, we provide credit and debit card transaction processing for China UnionPay (CUP) in selected markets and through a variety of methods, and are either designated as an acquirer by China UnionPay or are sponsored by a China UnionPay member institution. China UnionPay publishes acquirer operating regulations with which we must comply. We use our Members to assist in funding merchants for China UnionPay transactions. 5 Table of Contents How a Card Transaction Works A typical card transaction begins when a cardholder presents a card for payment at a merchant location where the card information is captured by a Point of Sale ("POS") terminal card reader or mobile phone card reader, which may be sold, leased, or rented, and serviced by Global Payments. Alternatively, card and transaction information may be captured and transmitted to our network through a POS device by one of a number of products that we offer directly or through a value added reseller (VAR). The terminal electronically records sales draft information, such as the card identification number, transaction date and value of the goods or services purchased. After the card and transaction information is captured by the POS device, the terminal automatically either dials a pre-programmed phone number or otherwise connects to our network through the internet or other communication channels in order to receive authorization of the transaction. For a credit card transaction, authorization services generally refer to the process in which the card issuer indicates whether a particular credit card is authentic and whether the impending transaction value will cause the cardholder to exceed defined credit limits. In a debit card transaction, the company obtains authorization for the transaction from the card issuer through the payment network verifying that the cardholder has sufficient funds for the transaction. Timing differences, interchange expense, merchant reserves and exception items cause differences between the amount the Member receives from the card networks and the amount funded to the merchants. The standards of the card networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing merchant settlement funds, and, instead, require that these funds be in the possession of the Member until the merchant is funded. However, in practice and in accordance with the terms of our sponsorship agreements with our Members, we generally follow a net settlement process by region whereby, if the incoming amount from the card networks precedes the Member's funding obligation to the merchant, we temporarily hold the surplus on behalf of the Member, in an account at the Member bank, and record a corresponding liability. Conversely, if the Member's funding obligation to the merchant precedes the incoming amount from the card networks, the amount of the Member's net receivable position is either subsequently advanced to the Member by us or the Member satisfies this obligation with its own funds. If the Member uses its own funds, the Member may assess a funding cost. Each participant in the transaction process receives compensation for its services. As an illustration, shown below, on a $100.00 credit card transaction, the card issuer may fund the Member $98.50 after retaining approximately $1.50 referred to as an interchange fee or interchange expense. The card issuer seeks reimbursement of $100.00 from the cardholder in the cardholder's monthly credit card bill. The Member would, in turn, pay the merchant $100.00. The net settlement after this transaction would require Global Payments to advance the Member $1.50. After the end of the month, we would bill the merchant a percentage of the transaction, or discount, to cover the full amount of the interchange fee and our net revenue from the transaction. If our discount rate for the merchant in the above example was 2.00%, we would bill the merchant $2.00 at the end of the month for the transaction, reimburse ourselves for approximately $1.50 in interchange fees and retain $0.50 or 0.50% as our net revenue for the transaction. Discount rates vary based on negotiations with merchants and the economic characteristics of transactions. Interchange also varies based on the economic characteristics of individual transactions. Accordingly, our net revenue per transaction varies across our merchant base and is subject to change based on changes in discount rates and interchange rates. Our profit on the transaction reflects the net revenue less operating expenses, including assessments and other network fees, systems cost to process the transaction and commissions paid to our sales force or ISO. Assessments are fees charged by Visa and MasterCard based on the dollar value of transactions processed through their networks. 6 Table of Contents Business Segments North America Merchant Services Segment North America merchant services revenues represent 71.8% of our total consolidated fiscal 2013 revenues and includes operations in the United States, Canada and Brazil. In the United States, we sell our services via ISOs, a direct sales force, trade associations, integrated payment technology, agent and VAR referral arrangements, as well as proprietary telesales groups. Our ISO channel targets a variety of merchant types with typical annual bankcard volumes of $150,000 or less. The ISOs contract with Global Payments to provide processing and other services depending on the ISOs' requirements. These contracts are multi-year and priced by service on a per transaction basis. The ISOs act as a third-party sales group selling Global Payments-branded merchant acquiring products and services, with the majority of Global Payments ISOs marketing direct merchant acquiring. Because Global Payments is a primary party to the merchant contract as a result of our bank sponsor relationship, the full amount of fees collected from the merchant, net of interchange, is recorded as revenue. The excess of revenue earned over our cost to process the transaction plus the ISO contractual transaction fee is remitted to the ISO in the form of a residual payment on a monthly basis and is recorded in Sales, general and administrative expenses. Our direct sales channel receives qualified leads from our agent bank, VAR and trade association referral partners signing a variety of mid-to-large sized merchants with annual bankcard volume on average above $300,000. Our merchant portfolio is also increased by targeted campaigns and other lead generating efforts by our direct sales force. Our sales force is paid a combination of base salary and commission. Our referral partners are paid various referral fees. Our integrated payment technologies channel, or APT, sells integrated payment solutions to more than 30 different vertical markets gaining market share by signing new enterprise solution providers and by signing new merchants within existing enterprise solution providers already supported by APT. Our United States revenue also includes check and gaming services and indirect merchant services. Our check products offer merchant customers risk management alternatives, in the case of our verification and recovery offerings, or risk elimination, in the case of our guarantee offerings, by leveraging our internal and external databases of checkwriters to help decide whether 7 Table of Contents the merchant should accept a check as the form of payment from a particular checkwriter. Our check services products are part of our direct merchant service offering. The majority of check services involve providing check guarantee services for checks received by merchants. Under the guarantee service, when a merchant receives a check in payment for goods and services, the transaction is submitted and analyzed by the Company. The Company either accepts or declines the check for warranty coverage under its guarantee service. If the Company approves the check for warranty coverage and the merchant accepts the check, the merchant will either deposit the check in its bank account or process it for settlement through the company's electronic check acceptance service. If the check is returned unpaid by the merchant's bank and the returned check meets the requirements for warranty coverage, the Company is required to purchase the check from the merchant at its face value. The Company then owns the purchased check and pursues collection of the check from the check writer. As a result, the Company bears the risk of loss if the Company is unable to collect the returned check from the check writer. We earn a fee for each check guaranteed, which generally is determined as a percentage of the check amount. In the specialized vertical market of gaming, our VIP LightSpeed proprietary software and VIP Preferred Advantage product provide the gaming industry with the tools necessary to establish revolving check cashing limits for a casino's customers. Our gaming products allow fast access to cash with high limits so that gaming establishments can increase the flow of money to their gaming floors and reduce risk. We derive revenue from our gaming products primarily based on a percentage of the transaction value. In the indirect merchant services channel we provide merchant services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs that, in turn, resell our products and services. International Merchant Services Segment International merchant services revenues represent 28.2% of our total consolidated fiscal 2013 revenues and include operations in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Our business in Europe is primarily located in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, Czech Republic, and the Russian Federation. Our Asia-Pacific region includes the following eleven countries and territories: Brunei, China, Hong Kong, India, Macau, Malaysia, Maldives, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Taiwan. We have a direct sales force in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region through which we primarily sell our direct merchant acquiring services while leveraging our bank referral relationships. In the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation we also provide indirect merchant acquiring services. Total revenues from our segments, by geography, are as follows (in thousands): Year Ended May 31, 2013 2012 2011 Revenues: United States $ 1,394,675 $ 1,234,818 $ 1,031,997 Canada 311,000 332,434 330,872 North America merchant services 1,705,675 1,567,252 1,362,869 Europe 522,593 489,300 359,567 Asia-Pacific 147,655 147,295 137,366 International merchant services 670,248 636,595 496,933 Consolidated revenues $ 2,375,923 $ 2,203,847 $ 1,859,802 Industry Overview Payment processing service providers offer electronic transaction payment processing and support services directly to merchants, multinational corporations, financial institutions and ISOs. We are a leading mid-market and small-market merchant acquirer in the United States and we primarily compete with First Data Corporation, Bank of America Merchant Services, Chase Paymentech, Wells Fargo, Vantiv, Heartland Payment Systems and Elavon. 8 Table of Contents In Canada, we have significant market share. We consider Moneris Solutions, Chase Paymentech Solutions and TD Merchant Services to be major competitors in the Canadian market. Moneris Solutions is a joint venture between the Royal Bank of Canada and the Bank of Montreal. In the European and Asia-Pacific regions, financial institutions remain the primary providers of payment processing services to merchants, although the outsourcing of merchant processing services to third-party service providers is becoming more prevalent. Processing services have become increasingly complex, requiring significant capital commitments to develop, maintain and update the systems necessary to provide these advanced services at a competitive price. In Spain, we hold the number one market share position and our primary competitors are Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A, Caja Madrid, Santander, and Banco Popular although all banks offer some form of card processing in line with the traditional full service model in the market. In the United Kingdom, we believe we hold the number three market position compared to our primary competitors WorldPay and Barclays. In Spain, we hold the number one market share position and our primary competitors are Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A and Caja Madrid, although all banks offer some form of card processing in line with the traditional full service model in the market. While we have a market-leading position with our partner CaixaBank, we are expecting similar models to become more prevalent as further consolidation occurs in the banking sector. We believe we hold the number one market share position amongst non-bank processors in the Russian Federation in a highly fragmented payments market. Our competition is made up of various financial institutions, including Sberbank, VTB, Raiffeisen Bank, and Russian Standard Bank. In the Czech Republic, our primary competitors are First Data, SiNSYS, and Euronet. In the Asia-Pacific region, our primary competition is from financial institutions that offer merchant acquiring services in each of our eleven markets. As a result of continued growth in our industry, several large merchant acquirers, including us, have expanded operations both domestically and internationally in the form of acquisitions and the creation of alliances and joint ventures. We believe that the electronic payment transaction processing industry will continue to consolidate as banks and independent processors that do not have the necessary infrastructure may look to exit the business. We believe that electronic transactions will continue to grow in the future and that an increasing percentage of these transactions will be processed through emerging technologies. To help reduce transaction costs and accelerate the transaction approval process, we have integrated new technologies into our service offerings such as internet protocol communications and check truncation or conversion at the point of sale. In order to support and integrate payments into our merchants' various business solutions utilized through VARs, we created a developer portal simplifying the payment enablement process with multiple VARs. We are also able to offer our customers integrated e-commerce solutions. Through our VAR relationships, we have several products that support radio frequency identification for contactless payment cards as well as near field communication enabled smartphones that contain mobile wallet software, which position Global Payments to participate in mobile payments. We also offer customers the ability to accept payments utilizing a mobile device as a point of sale terminal. As mobile payments continue to evolve and are desired by merchants and consumers, we intend to continue partnering and developing new products and services that will leverage the benefits that these new technologies can offer our customers. We also believe that new markets will continue to develop in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions. Industries such as e-commerce, healthcare, education, government, recurring payments, and business-to-business should continue to see transaction volumes migrate to more electronic-based settlement solutions. We believe that the continued development of new products and services and the emergence of new vertical markets will be a factor in the growth of our business for the foreseeable future. Strategy We seek to leverage the adoption of, and transition to, card and electronic-based payments by expanding market share in our existing markets through our distribution channels and through acquisitions and also enter new markets through acquisitions around the world. We intend to continue to invest in and leverage our technology infrastructure and our people to increase our penetration in existing markets. Our objectives include: grow our direct merchant services market share by concentrating on the small and mid-market merchant segments, while selectively targeting national merchants that meet our profitability criteria; expand our direct merchant services distribution channels, including our existing sales force, ISOs, original equipment manufacturer (OEMs), VARs, e-commerce, mobile wallet software and other referral relationships; focus on high potential markets and channels including emerging technologies; continue to develop seamless multinational solutions for leading global customers; 9 Table of Contents provide customer service at levels that exceed our competition, while investing in technology, training and product enhancements; provide enhanced products and services by developing value-added applications, enhancing existing products and developing new systems and services to blend technology with customer needs; drive efficiencies throughout our technology infrastructure ; pursue potential domestic and international acquisitions or investments in and alliances with companies that have high growth potential or significant market presence Safeguarding Our Business Privacy and security are central to our service. We work with information security and forensics firms and employ advanced technologies to investigate and address issues related to processing system security. We also work with industry third parties, regulators and law enforcement to resolve security incidents and assist in efforts to prevent unauthorized access to our processing system. In early March 2012, we identified and self-reported unauthorized access into a limited portion of our North America card processing system. Our investigation also revealed potential unauthorized access to servers containing personal information collected from merchants who applied for processing services. The merchants who could potentially be affected are limited to those based in the U.S. We cannot verify those potentially affected as it is unclear whether any information was exported; however, we notified potentially-affected individuals and made available credit monitoring and identity protection insurance at no cost to the individuals. As a result of this event, certain card networks removed us from their list of PCI DSS compliant service providers. Our work to remediate our systems and processes is complete. We hired a Qualified Security Assessor, or QSA, to conduct an independent review of the PCI DSS compliance of our systems. Our QSA completed the evaluation of our remediation work. Global Payments Direct, Inc., our primary operating entity, has been returned to the list of PCI DSS compliant service providers and we have received reports on compliance covering all of our systems. To date, we have not experienced a material loss of revenue that we can confirm has been related to this event. However, this event and our related remediation efforts could potentially have a negative impact on future revenues. Please see Note 2 - Processing System Intrusion in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional processing system intrusion information. Employees As of May 31, 2013 , we had 3,954 employees. Many of our employees are highly skilled in technical areas specific to electronic transaction payment processing. We believe that our current and future operations depend substantially on retaining our key technical employees. Government Regulation Various aspects of our business are subject to regulation and supervision under federal, state and local laws in the United States, as well as laws and regulations that affect the electronic payments industry in the countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to rules promulgated by the various payment networks, including Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, China UnionPay and Interac; the Payment Services Directive in Europe; as well as a variety of other regulations, including escheat laws and applicable privacy and information security regulations. In addition, because we provide data processing services to banks and other financial institutions, we are subject to examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC). Set forth below is a brief summary of some of the significant laws and regulations that apply to the Company. These descriptions are not exhaustive and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provision. The Dodd-Frank Act On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Dodd-Frank Act), which has resulted in significant structural and other changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act directed the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (Board) to regulate the debit interchange transaction fees that a card issuer or payment card network receives or charges for an electronic debit transaction. The Act requires that these fees be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the card issuer in authorizing, clearing and settling the transaction. On June 29, 2011, the Board announced the final rules governing debit card interchange fees, and routing and exclusivity restrictions. Under these rules, debit interchange rates for card issuers with assets of $10 billion or more 10 Table of Contents are capped at $0.21 per transaction and an ad valorem component of 5 basis points to reflect a portion of the issuer's fraud losses plus, for qualifying issuers, an additional $0.01 per transaction in debit interchange for fraud prevention costs. In addition, the rules contain prohibitions on network exclusivity and merchant routing restrictions that require a card issuer to enable at least two unaffiliated networks on each debit card, prohibit card networks from entering into exclusivity arrangements, and restrict the ability of issuers or networks to mandate transaction routing requirements. The interchange fee limitations and prohibition on merchant routing restrictions took effect on October 1, 2011. The prohibition on network exclusivity arrangements took effect on October 1, 2011 for payment card networks and April 1, 2012 for most debit card issuers. In addition, the prohibition on network exclusivity arrangements were effective for certain health and benefit cards and general-use prepaid cards on April 1, 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), which was established to, among other things, identify risks to the stability of the U.S. financial system. The FSOC has the authority to require supervision and regulation of nonbank financial companies by the Federal Reserve if the FSOC determines either that (i) material financial distress at the nonbank financial company or (ii) the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of activities of the nonbank financial company could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. Such companies, commonly known as systemically important financial institutions or SIFIs, will be subject to heightened prudential standards such as risk-based capital requirements, liquidity requirements, and short-term debt limits. In June 2013, the FSOC reportedly voted on its first set of proposed SIFIs, though such designated companies are not publicly disclosed. The FSOC has not publicly designated the Company as a proposed SIFI. Additionally, the FSOC has the authority to designate financial market utilities (FMUs) and financial institutions engaged in payment, clearing and settlement (PCS) activities as systemically important if the FSOC determines that failure or disruption to the functioning of the FMU or conduct of the PCS activities could threaten the stability of the U.S. financial system. Such a designation will subject the FMU or financial institution to oversight and risk management standards established by the Federal Reserve (in consultation with the FSOC and certain other applicable regulatory agencies). Early indications suggest that the FSOC is focused on the regulation of financial services companies that operate unregulated wholesale transfer systems or engage in largely unregulated commodities, derivatives and currency markets, and not on entities such as the Company. Payment Network Rules We are subject to the rules of MasterCard, Visa, Discover, China UnionPay and Interac, and other payment networks. In order to provide our transaction processing services, several of our subsidiaries are registered with MasterCard and Visa as service providers for member institutions and with other networks. Accordingly, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions. Banking Laws and Regulations Because we provide data processing and technology services to banks and other financial institutions, we are subject to examination by the FFIEC. The FFIEC is an interagency body comprised of the federal bank and credit union regulators (i.e. the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection). The FFIEC examines large data processors in order to identify and mitigate risks associated with systemically significant service providers, including specifically the risks they may pose to the banking industry. In addition, we are subject to Directive 2007/64/EC in the European Union (the "Payment Services Directive), which was implemented in most European Union member states through national legislation. As a result of this legislation, we are subject to regulation and oversight in certain EU member nations, including the requirement that we maintain specified regulatory capital. Privacy and Information Security Laws We provide services that may be subject to various state, federal and foreign privacy laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which applies to a broad range of financial institutions and to companies that provide services to financial institutions. We are also subject to foreign data protection and privacy laws. Among other things, these foreign and domestic laws, and their implementing regulations, restrict the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent use and disclosure of protected information. These laws also impose requirements for safeguarding and removal or elimination of personal information. Certain state laws also restrict the ability of the Company to collect and utilize certain types of information such as Social Security and driver's license numbers. Anti-money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Requirements 11 Table of Contents Regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the U.S. Department of Treasury place prohibitions and restrictions on all U.S. citizens and entities, including the Company, with respect to transactions by U.S. persons with specified countries and individuals and entities identified on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals list (for example, individuals and companies owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, countries subject to certain economic and trade sanctions, as well as terrorists, terrorist organizations and narcotics traffickers identified by OFAC under programs that are not country specific). Similar requirements apply to transactions and to dealings with persons and entities specified in lists maintained in other countries. We have developed procedures and controls that are designed to monitor and address legal and regulatory requirements and developments and that allow our customers to protect against having direct business dealings with such prohibited countries, individuals or entities. Debt Collection Laws Our subsidiaries, Global Payments Check Services, Inc. and Global Payments Check Recovery Services, Inc., are subject to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and similar state laws in connection with their check guarantee and recovery services, which guarantee the payment of checks or collection of returned checks on behalf of certain merchants. These laws are designed to eliminate abusive, deceptive, and unfair debt collection practices and require licensing at the state level. Global Payments Check Services, Inc. and Global Payments Check Recovery Services, Inc. have procedures in place to comply with the requirements of these laws and are licensed in a number of states in order to engage in collection in those states. Escheat Laws We are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property laws in the U.S. and in foreign countries that require us to transfer to certain government authorities the unclaimed property of others that we hold when that property has been unclaimed for a certain period of time. Moreover, we are subject to audit by state regulatory authorities with regard to our escheatment practices. Where to Find More Information We file annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may read and print materials that we have filed with the SEC from its website at www.sec.gov. In addition, certain of our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to them can be viewed and printed from the investor information section of our website at www.globalpaymentsinc.com free of charge. Certain materials relating to our corporate governance, including our code of ethics for senior financial officers, are also available in the investor information section of our website. Copies of our filings, specified exhibits and corporate governance materials are also available, free of charge, by writing us using the address on the cover of this Form 10-K. You may also telephone our investor relations office directly at (770) 829-8234. We are not including the information on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this report. Our SEC filings may also be viewed and copied at the following SEC public reference room, and at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, where our common stock is quoted under the symbol GPN. SEC Public Reference Room 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, DC 20549 (You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.) NYSE Euronext 20 Broad Street New York, NY 10005 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A- RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other SEC filings before you decide whether to buy our common stock. The risks identified below are not all encompassing but should be considered in establishing an opinion of our future operations. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Failure to safeguard our data could affect our reputation among our merchant clients and cardholders, and may expose us to penalties, fines, liabilities and legal claims. Under VISA, MasterCard, American Express and Discover card network rules, and various state laws, we are responsible for information provided to us by merchants, ISO's, third-party service providers, and other agents (all of which we refer to as associated third parties), which we require in order to process transactions and for fraud prevention. This information includes bankcard numbers, names, addresses, Social Security numbers, driver's license numbers, and bank account numbers. We process the data and deliver our products and services by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated both by us and by third-party service providers. We have ultimate liability to the card networks and their member financial institutions for our failure or the failure of our associated third parties to protect this information. Although plans and procedures are in place to protect this sensitive data, we cannot be certain that our measures will be successful and will be sufficient to counter all current and emerging technology threats designed to breach our systems in order to gain access to confidential information. Our computer systems have been, and could be in the future, subject to penetration and our data protection procedures may not prevent unauthorized use. We could also be subject to liability for claims relating to misuse of personal information, such as unauthorized marketing purposes and violation of data privacy laws. Although we generally require that our agreements with service providers who have access to merchant and customer data include confidentiality obligations that restrict these parties from using or disclosing any customer or merchant data except in accordance with the applicable agreements, we cannot assure you that these contractual measures will prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of data. In addition, we have agreed in certain agreements to take certain protective measures to ensure the confidentiality of merchant and consumer data. The costs of systems and procedures associated with such protective measures may increase and could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Any failure to adequately enforce or provide these protective measures could result in liability and protracted and costly litigation. In early March of 2012, we identified and self-reported unauthorized access into a limited portion of our North America card processing system. Our investigation also revealed potential unauthorized access to servers containing personal information collected from merchants who applied for processing services. The merchants who could potentially be affected are limited to those based in the U.S. We cannot verify those potentially affected as it is unclear whether any information was exported; however, we notified potentially-affected individuals and made available credit monitoring and identity protection insurance at no cost to the individuals. As a result of this event, certain card networks removed us from their list of Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards ("PCI DSS") compliant service providers. Our work to remediate our systems and processes is complete. We hired a QSA to conduct an independent review of the PCI DSS compliance of our systems. Global Payments Direct, Inc, our primary operating entity, has been returned to the list of PCI DSS compliant service providers and we have received reports on compliance covering all of our systems that process, store, transmit or otherwise utilize card data. To date, we have not experienced a material loss of revenue that we can confirm has been related to this event. However, this event and our related remediation efforts could potentially have a negative impact on future revenues. During the fiscal year ended May 31, 2013, we recorded $36.8 million of expense associated with this incident, bringing the life-to-date total expense to $121.2 million . Of this amount, $105.5 million represents the costs we have incurred through May 31, 2013 for legal fees, fees of consultants and other professional advisors engaged to conduct the investigation and various other costs associated with the investigation and remediation. An additional $35.7 million represents total fraud losses, fines and other charges that have been imposed upon us by the card networks. We also recorded $20.0 million of insurance recoveries. During fiscal 2013, we reduced our accrual for fraud losses, fines and other charges by $31.8 million . We based our initial estimate of fraud losses, fines and other charges on our understanding of the rules and operating regulations published by the networks and preliminary communications with the networks. We have now reached resolution with and made payments to the networks, resulting in charges that were less than our initial estimates. The primary difference between our initial estimates and the final charges relates to lower fraud related costs attributed to this event than previously expected. 13 Table of Contents A security breach like the one that recently occurred, or other misuse of data could harm our reputation and deter existing and prospective customers from using our products and services, increase our operating expenses in order to contain and remediate the breach, expose us to unbudgeted or uninsured liability, disrupt our operations (including potential service interruptions), increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, result in the imposition of penalties and fines under state, federal and foreign laws or by the card networks, and adversely affect our continued card network registration and financial institution sponsorship. We have insurance that we believe would provide coverage of costs associated with a security incident. However, there can be no assurance that such costs would not materially exceed such insurance coverage. Our revenues from the sale of services to merchants that accept Visa cards and MasterCard cards are dependent upon our continued Visa and MasterCard registration and financial institution sponsorship and, in some cases, continued participation in certain card networks. In order to provide our Visa and MasterCard transaction processing services, we must be either a direct participant or be registered as a merchant processor or service provider of Visa and MasterCard. Registration as a merchant processor or service provider is dependent upon our being sponsored by member banks of both organizations. If our sponsor banks should stop providing sponsorship for us, we would need to find another financial institution to provide those services or we would need to attain direct participation, either of which could prove to be difficult and expensive. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution to provide sponsorship or attain direct participation, we may no longer be able to provide processing services to affected customers which would negatively impact our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, some agreements with our bank sponsors give them substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including our solicitation, application, and qualification procedures for merchants and the terms of our agreements with merchants. Our bank sponsors' discretionary actions under these agreements could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In connection with direct participation, the rules and regulations of various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would limit our use of capital for other purposes. In Canada, we have filed an application with the Canadian regulatory authorities for the formation of a wholly owned loan company in Canada which could serve as our financial institution sponsor. While such application is pending, in March 2011, we obtained temporary direct participation in the Visa Canada system. This temporary status currently expires on October 30, 2013. In the event the wholly owned loan company has not been approved by such expiration date and Visa is unwilling to extend such temporary status, we have entered into an agreement with a financial institution that is willing to serve as our sponsor; however that agreement is not intended to be a long-term solution. We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If we are unable to maintain clearing services with these financial institutions and are unable to find a replacement, our business may be adversely affected. We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If such financial institutions should stop providing clearing services, we must find other financial institutions to provide those services. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution we may no longer be able to provide processing services to certain customers which could negatively impact our revenue and earnings. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations. If our merchants or ISOs incur fines or penalties that we cannot collect from them, we could end up bearing the cost of such fines or penalties. We are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions. The rules of the card networks are set by their boards, which may be influenced by card issuers, and some of those issuers are our competitors with respect to these processing services. Many banks directly or indirectly sell processing services to merchants in direct competition with us. These banks could attempt, by virtue of their influence on the networks, to alter the networks' rules or policies to the detriment of non-members like us. The termination of our registrations or our status as a service provider or a merchant processor, or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If a merchant or an ISO fails to comply with the applicable requirements of the card associations and networks, it could be subject to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks. If we cannot collect such amounts from the applicable merchant or ISO, we could end up bearing such fines or penalties, resulting in lower earnings for us. The termination of our registration, or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair our 14 Table of Contents registration, could require us to stop providing Visa and MasterCard payment processing services, which would make it impossible for us to conduct our business on its current scale . Increased merchant, referral partner or ISO attrition could cause our financial results to decline. We experience attrition in merchant credit and debit card processing volume resulting from several factors, including business closures, transfers of merchants' accounts to our competitors, unsuccessful contract renewal renegotiation, and account closures that we initiate for various reasons, such as heightened credit risks or contract breaches by merchants. Our ISO sales channel is a strong contributor to our revenue growth in our North America merchant services segment. If an ISO partner switches to another transaction processor, terminates our services, shuts down or becomes insolvent, we will no longer receive new merchant referrals from the ISO, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the ISO. We cannot predict the level of attrition in the future and it could increase. Our referral partners are an important source of new business. Higher than expected attrition could negatively affect our results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The payment processing industry is highly competitive and some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources than we do, which may give them an advantage in our market with respect to the pricing of our products and services offered to our customers, and our ability to develop new technologies. We operate in the electronic payments market, which is highly competitive. Our primary competitors in these markets include other independent processors, as well as financial institutions, ISOs, and, potentially, card networks. Many of our competitors are companies that are larger than we are and have greater financial and operational resources than we have. In addition, our competitors that are financial institutions or subsidiaries of financial institutions do not incur the costs associated with being sponsored by a bank for registration with the card networks. These factors may allow them to offer better pricing terms to customers, which could result in a loss of our potential or current customers or could force us to lower our prices as well. Higher than expected attrition could negatively affect our results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of our competitors may have the ability to devote more financial and operational resources than we can to the development of new technologies and services, including Internet payment processing services and mobile payment processing services that provide improved operating functionality and features to their product and service offerings. If successful, their development efforts could render our product and services offerings less desirable to customers, again resulting in the loss of customers or a reduction in the price we could demand for our offerings. Additionally, our competitors that are financial institutions or subsidiaries of financial institutions do not incur costs associated with being sponsored by a direct participant for registration with the card networks and can settle transactions more quickly for their merchants than we can for ours. This may allow our competitors to offer more attractive fees to our current and prospective merchants, or other products or services that we do not offer. This could result in a loss of customers, greater difficulty attracting new customers, and a reduction in the price we can charge for our services. Furthermore, we are facing competition from non-traditional competitors, such as Paypal and Google, who offer alternative payment methods. These non-traditional competitors have significant financial resources and robust networks and are highly regarded by consumers. If these non-traditional competitors gain a greater share of total electronic payments transactions, it could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In order to remain competitive and to continue to increase our revenues and earnings, we must continually update our products and services, a process which could result in increased costs and the loss of revenues, earnings and customers if the new products and services do not perform as intended or are not accepted in the marketplace. The electronic payments markets in which we compete are subject to rapid technological changes. These markets are characterized by technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. In order to remain competitive, we are continually involved in a number of projects including the development of a new front-end platform for electronic payments processing, mobile payment applications, e-commerce services and other new offerings emerging in the electronic payments industry. These projects carry the risks associated with any development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance problems. In the electronic payments markets these risks are even more acute. Any delay in the delivery of new products or services or the failure to differentiate our products and services could render them less desirable to our customers, or possibly even obsolete. In addition, the products and services we deliver to the electronic payments markets are designed to process very complex transactions and deliver reports and other information on those transactions, all at very high volumes and processing speeds. Any failure to deliver an effective and secure product or any performance issue that arises with a new product or service could result in significant processing or reporting errors or other losses. As a result of these factors, our 15 Table of Contents development efforts could result in increased costs that could reduce our earnings in addition to a loss of revenue and earnings if promised new products are not timely delivered to our customers or do not perform as anticipated. We also rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. Furthermore, our competitors may have the ability to devote more financial and operational resources than we can to the development of new technologies and services, including e-commerce and mobile payment processing services, that provide improved operating functionality and features to their existing service offerings. If successful, their development efforts could render our services less desirable to clients, resulting in the loss of clients or a reduction in the fees we could generate from our offerings. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. For example, beginning in 2013 both MasterCard and Visa are requiring processors in the United States to support Europay, MasterCard, and Visa (EMV) credit and debit card authentication. Developing and implementing support for EMV requires us to invest significant resources and there is no certainty as to when, or even if, our merchants or financial institution customers will use or accept EMV. In order for us to continue to grow and increase our profitability, we must continue to expand our share of the existing electronic payments markets and also expand into new markets. Our future growth and profitability depend upon our continued expansion within the markets in which we currently operate, the further expansion of these markets, the emergence of other markets for electronic transaction payment processing, and our ability to penetrate these markets. As part of our strategy to achieve this expansion, we look for acquisition opportunities, investments and alliance relationships with other businesses that will allow us to increase our market penetration, technological capabilities, product offerings and distribution capabilities. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition, investment and alliance candidates in the future, and if we do, they may not provide us with the benefits we anticipated. Once completed, investments and alliances may not realize the value that we expect. Our expansion into new markets is also dependent upon our ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure products and distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these new markets. If we fail to expand into new and existing electronic payments markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings. There may be a decline in the use of cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the card industry in general. If consumers do not continue to use credit or debit cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards, and debit cards, which is adverse to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We believe future growth in the use of credit and debit cards and other electronic payments will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use electronic payment methods that we process including credit and debit cards. Our systems and our third-party providers' systems may fail which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business, increase our costs and expose us to liability. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer systems, software, data centers and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems and services of third parties. In addition, we have undertaken the relocation of our primary data center. We have entered into agreements related to this relocation and for the ongoing management of the data center. A system outage or data loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Not only would we suffer damage to our reputation in the event of a system outage or data loss, but we may also be liable to third parties. Our systems and operations or those of our third-party providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist acts, war, unauthorized entry, human error, and computer viruses or other defects. Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions, telecommunications failures, or other difficulties (including those related to the system relocation) could result in loss of revenue, loss of customers, loss of merchant and cardholder data, harm to our business or reputation, exposure to fraud 16 Table of Contents losses or other liabilities, negative publicity, additional operating and development costs, fines and other sanctions imposed by card networks, and/or diversion of technical and other resources. We may experience software defects, undetected errors, and development delays, which could damage customer relations, decrease our potential profitability and expose us to liability. Our products are based on sophisticated software and computing systems that often encounter development delays and the underlying software may contain undetected errors, viruses, or defects. Defects in our software products and errors or delays in our processing of electronic transactions could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, loss of credibility with current or potential customers, harm to our reputation, or exposure to liability claims. In addition, we rely on technologies and software supplied by third parties that may also contain undetected errors, viruses or defects that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incur chargeback liability when our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers. We cannot accurately anticipate these liabilities, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the event a dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally charged back to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If we are unable to collect such amounts from the merchant's account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse us for a chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with those merchants that promise future delivery of goods and services rather than delivering goods or rendering services at the time of payment. We may experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have policies to manage merchant-related credit risk and often mitigate such risk by establishing reserve accounts, requesting collateral and establishing caps for monthly processing. Notwithstanding our programs and policies for managing credit risk, it is possible that a default on such obligations by one or more of our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business. Fraud by merchants or others could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have potential liability for fraudulent electronic payment transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit credit or debit card, card number, or other credentials to record a false sales or credit transaction, processes an invalid card, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and fraud. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase our chargeback liability or cause us to incur other liabilities. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Increases in chargebacks or other liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to economic and political risk, the business cycles and credit risk of our customers and the overall level of consumer, business and government spending, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global electronic payments industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. A sustained deterioration in general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate or increases in interest rates may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions made using electronic payments. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in our revenue and profits. If our merchants make fewer sales of their products and services using electronic payments or people spend less money per transaction, we will have fewer transactions to process at lower dollar amounts, resulting in lower revenue. A downturn in the economy could force retailers to close, resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and future transaction declines. Furthermore, credit card issuers may reduce credit limits and be more selective with respect to whom they issue credit cards. We also have a certain amount of fixed and other costs, including rent, debt service, processing contractual minimums and salaries, which could limit our ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in our business and the economy. Changes in economic conditions could also adversely impact our future revenues and profits and cause a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents In addition, a recessionary economic environment could affect our merchants through a higher rate of bankruptcy filings, resulting in lower revenues and earnings for us. Our merchants are liable for any charges properly reversed by the card issuer on behalf of the cardholder. Our associated third parties are also liable for any fines, or penalties, that may be assessed by any card networks. In the event that we are not able to collect such amounts from the associated third parties, due to fraud, breach of contract, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for any such charges. Reject losses arise from the fact that, in most markets, we collect our fees from our merchants on the first day after the monthly billing period. This results in the build-up of a substantial receivable from our customers. If a merchant has gone out of business during the billing period, we may be unable to collect such fees, which negatively impacts our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in credit card network fees may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in our earnings. From time-to-time, the card networks, including Visa and MasterCard, increase the fees that they charge processors such as us. We could attempt to pass these increases along to our merchant customers, but this strategy might result in the loss of those customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases. If competitive practices prevent our passing along such increased fees to our merchant customers in the future, we may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases thereby reducing our net revenues, increasing our operating costs and reducing our earnings. Any new or changes made to laws, regulations, card network rules or other industry standards affecting our business in any of the geographic regions in which we operate may require significant development efforts or have an unfavorable impact to our financial results. Our business is impacted by laws and regulations that affect our industry in the countries in which we operate. Regulation and proposed regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with regulations or guidelines may result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines, or may cause customers or potential customers to be reluctant to do business with us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. For example, we are subject to the card network rules of Visa, MasterCard, and other card networks, Interac, and various debit networks; applicable privacy and information security regulations in the regions where we operate and of the card networks; the Payment Services Directive in Europe; The Code of Conduct for the Credit and Debit Card Industry in Canada (issued by Canada's Department of Finance); Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 in the United States, which requires information returns to be made for each calendar year by merchant acquiring entities, along with a myriad of consumer protection laws and escheat regulations. We are also subject to examination by the FFIEC (as a result of our provision of data processing services to financial institutions). Interchange fees (which are typically paid by the acquirer to the issuer in connection with transactions) are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory, and legislative scrutiny worldwide. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which was signed into law in July 2010, significantly changes the U.S. financial regulatory system. Changes affecting the payment processing industry include restricting amounts of debit card fees that certain issuing institutions can charge merchants and allowing merchants to set minimum dollar amounts for the acceptance of credit cards and to offer discounts for different payment methods. On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve Board adopted the final rules implementing the debit interchange fee and routing and exclusivity provisions in Dodd-Frank. The overall impact of Dodd-Frank on us is difficult to estimate because it will take some time for the market to react and adjust to the new regulations. These decisions and regulatory actions, even if not directed at us, may require significant efforts to change our systems and products and may require changes to how we price our services to customers. Until final decisions around implementation are announced, we cannot predict the impact of any of these changes on our operations and financial condition. Changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a negative financial effect on our business. In addition, even an inadvertent failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage our business or our reputation. Furthermore, we are subject to tax laws in each jurisdiction where we conduct business. Changes in such laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive, the value of tax losses and tax credit carry forwards recorded on our balance sheet and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The costs and effects of pending and future litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, financial position and results of operations. We are from time-to-time involved in various litigation matters and governmental or regulatory investigations or similar matters arising out of our current or future business. Our insurance or indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted 18 Table of Contents against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in pending or future litigation or similar matters under various laws. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any pending litigation or future litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks associated with foreign operations and investments outside the United States could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. We are subject to risks related to the changes in currency exchange rates as a result of our investments in foreign operations and from revenues generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Revenue and profit generated by international operations will increase or decrease compared to prior periods as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Volatility in currency exchange rates has affected and may continue to affect our financial results. For example, for fiscal year 2013, currency exchange rate fluctuations decreased our revenues by $20.3 million and our earnings by $0.05 per diluted share. We historically have not used forward contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the risks associated with currency exchange risk. We also have indirect foreign investments, which are subject to country risk (such as sovereign, economic, political, and location risks). These investments are short-term in nature and with private sector issuers. Country risk could impact the valuation and liquidity of those investments. In addition, in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our foreign currency into United States dollars or limit our ability to freely move currency in or out of particular jurisdictions. The occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. We conduct a portion of our business in various European and Asia-Pacific countries, including the Russian Federation, where the risk of continued political, economic and regulatory change that could impact our operating results is greater than in the United States. We expect to continue to expand our operations into various countries in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Some of these countries, and other foreign countries in which we operate, such as the Russian Federation and Spain, have undergone significant political, economic and social change in recent years, and the risk of new, unforeseen changes in these countries remains greater than in the United States. In particular, changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise, could materially adversely affect our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations. Transmittal of data by electronic means and telecommunications is subject to specific regulation in many countries. Although these regulations have not had a material impact on us to date, changes in these regulations, including taxation or limitations on transfers of data between countries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations. The integration and conversion of our acquired operations, or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating both businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process. The acquisition, integration, and conversion of businesses involves a number of risks. Core risks are in the area of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited diligence) and integration and conversion (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, products, technology, and other assets to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition). In addition, international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems, and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; complying with foreign regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty entering new foreign markets due to, among other things, customer acceptance and business knowledge of those new markets; and general economic and political conditions. If the integration and conversion process does not proceed smoothly, the following factors, among others, could reduce our revenues and earnings, increase our operating costs, and result in a loss of projected synergies: 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully integrate the benefits plans, duties and responsibilities, and other factors of interest to the management and employees of the acquired business, we could lose employees to our competitors in the region, which could significantly affect our ability to operate the business and complete the integration; If the integration process causes any delays with the delivery of our services, or the quality of those services, we could lose customers to our competitors, which would reduce our revenues and earnings; and The acquisition and the related integration could divert the attention of our management from other strategic matters including possible acquisitions and alliances and planning for new product development or expansion into new electronic payments markets. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel as we grow, our business could be adversely affected. All of our businesses function at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic, and regulatory developments that requires a wide ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. To successfully compete and grow, we must recruit, develop and retain the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of intellectual capital needs. In addition, we must develop our personnel to fulfill succession plans capable of maintaining continuity in the midst of the inevitable unpredictability of human capital. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. Our efforts to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses, which could negatively affect our profitability. We cannot assure that key personnel, including executive officers, will continue to be employed or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets consist of intangible assets (including goodwill). Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortization, together accounted for approximately 46.2% and 37.8% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of May 31, 2013 and May 31, 2012, respectively. We may not realize the full value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. We evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of goodwill and such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or changes to enacted tax rates could adversely affect our tax expense. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local, and international taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. We have established contingent liabilities for material known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item. These liabilities reflect what we believe to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely final resolution of each issue if raised by a taxing authority. While we believe that the liabilities are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be finally resolved at a financial cost less than any related liability. An unfavorable resolution, therefore, could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. We record deferred income taxes to reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial accounting and income tax purposes. Deferred income taxes are determined using enacted tax rates. Changes in enacted tax rates may negatively impact our results of operations. We may become subject to additional United States, state or foreign taxes that cannot be passed through to our merchant services customers, in which case our earnings could be adversely affected. Payment processing companies like us may be subject to taxation by various jurisdictions on our net income or certain portions of our fees charged to customers for our services. Application of these taxes is an emerging issue in our industry and the taxing authorities have not yet all adopted uniform regulations on this topic. If we are required to pay such taxes and are not able to pass the tax expense through to our merchant customers, our costs will increase, reducing our earnings. 20 Table of Contents We have structured our business in accordance with existing tax laws and interpretations of such laws which have been confirmed through either tax rulings or opinions obtained in various jurisdictions including those related to value added taxes in Europe. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive, the amount of our cash flow, and have a material adverse impact on our business. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Further, this assessment may be complicated by any acquisitions we may complete. In certain markets in the Asia-Pacific region, the Republic of Malta and Spain, our member sponsors perform payment processing operations and related support services pursuant to services agreements. We expect that the member sponsors will continue to provide these services until such time as we may integrate these functions into our operations. Accordingly, we rely on our member sponsors to provide financial data, such as revenue billed to merchants, to assist us with compiling our accounting records. As such, our internal controls over financial reporting could be materially affected, or are reasonably likely to be materially affected, by the internal