Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a detailed explanation of our operating results. Recent Acquisitions On March 4, 2014 , we completed the acquisition of PayPros for $426.5 million in cash. We funded the acquisition with a combination of cash on hand and borrowings on our corporate debt facilities. PayPros is a provider of fully-integrated payment solutions for small-to-medium sized merchants in the United States. PayPros delivers its services through a network of technology-based enterprise software partners to vertical markets that are complementary to the markets served by Accelerated Payment Technologies ("APT"), which we acquired on October 1, 2012. Although we acquired PayPros in fiscal 2014 , fiscal 2015 was the first full year for which PayPros' operating results were included in our consolidated results. We have combined APT and PayPros to form our integrated payments solutions channel that we refer to as "OpenEdge." During fiscal 2015 , we completed the following two strategic acquisitions in our International merchant services segment, enhancing our technological capabilities and extending our global reach in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe: On October 10, 2014 , we completed the acquisition of Ezidebit Holdings Pty Ltd ("Ezidebit") for AUD 302.6 million in cash ( $266.0 million equivalent as of the acquisition date). This acquisition was funded by a combination of cash on hand and borrowings on our revolving credit facility. Ezidebit is a leading integrated payments company focused on recurring payments verticals in Australia and New Zealand. Ezidebit markets its services through a network of integrated software vendors and direct channels to numerous vertical markets. We acquired Ezidebit to establish a direct distribution channel in Australia and New Zealand and to further enhance our existing integrated solutions offerings. On March 25, 2015 , we acquired approximately 95% of the outstanding shares of Pay and Shop Limited for 110.2 million in cash ( $118.9 million equivalent as of the acquisition date) funded by borrowings on our revolving credit facility. Pay and Shop Limited, which does business as Realex Payments, is a leading European online payment gateway technology provider based in Dublin, Ireland. This transaction furthers our strategy to provide omni-channel solutions that combine gateway services, payment service provisioning and merchant acquiring across Europe. 4 Table of Contents Also during fiscal 2015 , we entered into agreements to acquire the following businesses: On September 30, 2014 , we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Certegy Check Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("FIS"), to acquire substantially all of the assets of its gaming business related to licensed gaming operators (the "FIS Gaming Business"). On June 1, 2015 , after the end of fiscal 2015, we completed the acquisition, which includes approximately 260 gaming client locations, for $237.5 million in cash, funded from borrowings on our revolving credit facility and cash on hand. We acquired the FIS Gaming Business to expand our direct distribution and service offerings in the gaming industry. On December 17, 2014 , we announced an agreement with Bank of the Philippine Islands ("BPI") to provide merchant acquiring and payment services in the Philippines. We believe this arrangement will enable us to expand our direct distribution in the Philippines, further leverage our technological strengths and provide superior product and service offerings to customers in the Philippines. Under this arrangement, BPI will contribute its existing merchant acquiring business to our subsidiary in the Philippines, Global Payments Asia-Pacific Philippines Incorporated ("GP Philippines"), in return for a 49% ownership interest in GP Philippines and a cash payment of $3.6 million . We will retain a controlling 51% interest in GP Philippines. We expect the acquisition to close late in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of customary closing conditions. On July 27, 2015 , we announced an agreement with CaixaBank, S.A. ("CaixaBank") and Erste Group Bank AG (Erste Group) to form a venture to provide merchant acquiring and payment services in three core Central and Eastern Europe locations: the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic and Romania. As part of the agreement, Global Payments and CaixaBank will form an entity, of which Global Payments will have a 51 percent majority interest. This newly formed entity will pay $30 million ( $33 million equivalent as of the agreement date) in cash to acquire a 51 percent majority ownership in the venture with Erste Group, which will contribute its existing merchant acquiring businesses in each of the three countries to the venture and hold a 49 percent interest. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of fiscal 2016 , subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of customary closing conditions. See "Note 3 - Business and Intangible Asset Acquisitions and Joint Ventures" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these acquisitions. Business Description We are a leading worldwide provider of payment technology services delivering innovative solutions to our customers. Our partnerships, technologies and employee expertise enable us to provide a broad range of services that allow our customers to accept various payment types. We distribute our services across a variety of channels to merchants and partners in 29 countries throughout North America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil. We provide payment and digital commerce solutions and operate in two reportable segments: North America merchant services and International merchant services. We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in 2000 and spun-off from our former parent company in 2001. Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payment technology services business since 1967. Our North America merchant services and International merchant services segments target customers in many industries including financial services, gaming, government, health care, professional services, restaurants, retail, universities, not-for-profit organizations and utilities. See "Note 14 - Segment Information" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional segment information and "Item 1A - Risk Factors" for a discussion of risks involved with our operations. Merchant Services Overview Our payment solutions are similar around the world in that we enable our merchant customers to accept card, electronic, check and digital-based payments at the point of sale. Our primary business model provides payment services directly to merchants as our customers. We also provide similar services indirectly through financial institutions and a limited number of independent sales organizations ("ISOs"). The term "merchant" generally refers to any organization that accepts card-based payment forms, such as credit, debit, gift, stored value and electronic benefits transfer cards, for the payment of goods and services. We sell our services through multiple sales channels around the world and target customers in many vertical industries. Credit and debit card transaction processing includes the processing of the world's major international card brands, including American Express, UnionPay International ("UPI"), Discover Card ("Discover"), JCB, MasterCard, Visa and non-traditional payment methods, as well as certain domestic debit networks, such as Interac in Canada. Electronic and digital-based payment processing involves a consumer 5 Table of Contents or cardholder acquiring goods or services from a merchant and using a credit or debit card or other electronic or digital method as the form of payment. Our comprehensive offerings include terminal sales and deployment, authorization processing, settlement and funding processing, customer support and help desk functions, chargeback resolution, industry compliance, Payment Card Industry ("PCI") security, consolidated billing and statements and on-line reporting. Our value proposition is to provide high-quality, responsive, secure and end-to-end service to all of our customers. Currently, we focus on merchants and partners in 29 countries located throughout North America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and in South America. The majority of merchant services revenue is generated by services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type. We also charge other fees based on specific services that are unrelated to the number or value of transactions. Credit and Debit Card Transaction Processing Credit and debit networks establish uniform regulations that govern much of the payment card industry. During a typical payment transaction, the merchant and the card issuer do not interface directly with each other, but instead rely on merchant acquirers like Global Payments to facilitate transaction processing. We perform a series of services including authorization, electronic draft capture, file transfers to facilitate funds settlement and certain exception-based, back office support services such as chargeback and retrieval resolution. We process funds settlement under two models, a sponsorship model and a direct membership model. Under the sponsorship model, we are designated as a Merchant Service Provider by MasterCard and as an ISO by Visa. To be designated as a certified processor, member clearing banks ("Member") sponsor us and require our adherence to the standards of the networks. In certain markets, we have sponsorship or depository and clearing agreements with financial institution sponsors. These agreements allow us to route transactions under the Members' control and identification numbers to clear credit card transactions through MasterCard and Visa. In this model, the standards of the card networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing merchant settlement funds, and, instead, require that these funds be in the possession of the Member until the merchant has been funded. Under the direct membership model, we are direct members in various payment networks, allowing us to process and fund transactions without third-party sponsorship. In this model, we route and clear transactions directly through the card brands network and are not restricted from performing funds settlement. Otherwise, we process these transactions similarly to how we process transactions in the sponsorship model. We are required to adhere to the standards of the various networks in which we are direct members. We maintain relationships with financial institutions, which may also serve as our Member sponsors for other card brands or in other markets, to assist with funds settlement. In fiscal 2015 , we increased the number of markets in which we are members in certain of the payment networks. How a Card Transaction Works A typical payment transaction begins when a cardholder presents a card for payment at a merchant location where the card information is captured by a point of sale ("POS") terminal card reader or mobile device card reader, which may be sold, leased or rented, and serviced by us. Alternatively, card and transaction information may be captured and transmitted to our network through a POS device by one of a number of services that we offer directly or through a value-added reseller (VAR). The terminal electronically records sales draft information, such as the card identification number, transaction date and value of the goods or services purchased. After the card and transaction information is captured by the POS device, the terminal automatically connects to our network through the internet or other communication channels in order to receive authorization of the transaction. For a credit card transaction, authorization services generally refer to the process in which the card issuer indicates whether a particular credit card is authentic and whether the impending transaction value will cause the cardholder to exceed defined credit limits. In a debit card transaction, we obtain authorization for the transaction from the card issuer through the payment network verifying that the cardholder has sufficient funds for the transaction value. As an illustration, shown below, on a $100.00 credit card transaction, the card issuer may fund the Member (indirectly through the card network) $98.50 after retaining approximately $1.50 referred to as an interchange fee. The card issuer seeks reimbursement of $100.00 from the cardholder in the cardholder's monthly credit card bill. The Member would, in turn, pay the merchant $100.00. The net settlement after this transaction would require us to advance the Member $1.50. After the end of the month, we would bill the merchant a percentage of the transaction, or discount, to cover the full amount of the interchange fee and our net revenue from the transaction. If our discount rate for the merchant in the above example was 2.00%, we would bill the merchant $2.00 at the end of the month for the transaction, reimburse ourselves for approximately $1.50 in interchange 6 Table of Contents fees and retain $0.50 or 0.50% as our net revenue for the transaction. Discount rates vary based on negotiations with merchants and the economic characteristics of transactions. Interchange rates also vary based on the economic characteristics of individual transactions. Accordingly, our net revenue per transaction varies across our merchant base and is subject to change based on changes in discount rates and interchange rates. Our profit on the transaction reflects the net revenue less operating expenses, including assessments and other network fees, systems cost to process the transaction and commissions paid to our sales force or ISO. Assessments are fees charged by Visa and MasterCard based on the value of transactions processed through their networks. Business Segments North America Merchant Services Segment North America merchant services revenues represented 71.0% of our total consolidated fiscal 2015 revenues and included operations in the United States and Canada. In the United States, we sell our services via a direct sales force utilizing referrals from partners of agent banks and trade associations, integrated payment solutions, enterprise software providers and VAR referral arrangements, ISOs, agents and proprietary telesales groups. Direct Sales . Our direct sales channel receives qualified leads from agent banks and trade association referral partners for a variety of mid-sized to large merchants with annual bankcard volume averaging above $300,000. Our merchant portfolio is also expanded through targeted campaigns and other lead-generating efforts by our direct sales force. Our referral partners are paid referral fees. Integrated Payment Solutions . Our integrated payment solutions channel, OpenEdge, sells payment solutions to more than 60 vertical markets, gaining market share by signing new enterprise solution providers and new merchants within existing enterprise solution providers that we already support. Independent Sales Organizations . Our ISO channel targets merchant with typical annual bankcard volumes of $150,000 or less. ISOs contract with Global Payments to provide processing and other services depending on the ISOs' requirements. These contracts are generally multi-year and priced by service on a per transaction basis. The ISOs act as a third-party sales group selling Global Payments-branded merchant acquiring services, with the majority of Global Payments' ISOs marketing direct merchant acquiring. Because Global Payments is a primary party to the merchant contract as a result of our bank sponsor 7 Table of Contents relationship or card network membership, the full amount of fees collected from the merchant, net of interchange fees, is recorded as revenue. The excess of revenue earned over our cost to process the transaction plus the ISO contractual transaction fee is remitted to the ISO in the form of a residual payment on a monthly basis and is recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. Gaming. As part of our direct merchant service offering, we offer a comprehensive suite of cash access solutions to the gaming vertical market. These solutions include credit and debit card cash advance, both traditional and electronic check cashing and other services specific to this market. Our proprietary software platform allows casino patrons in the United States and Canada fast access to cash with high limits so that gaming establishments can increase the flow of money to their gaming floors and reduce risk. We derive revenue from our gaming services primarily based on a percentage of the transaction value. Check Services . We also offer our merchant customers check verification and guarantee services. The majority of check services involve providing check guarantee services for checks received by merchants. Under the guarantee service, when a merchant receives a check in payment for goods and services, the transaction is submitted to and analyzed by us. We either approve or decline the check for warranty coverage under our guarantee service. If we approve the check for warranty coverage and the merchant accepts the check, the merchant will either deposit the check in its bank account or, as in the majority of instances, process it for settlement through our electronic check acceptance service. When an approved check or electronic debit is returned unpaid by the merchant's bank, we pay the merchant the face value of the check and, as the assignee of the check, we pursue collection of the amount of the check from the checkwriter. As a result, we bear the risk of loss if we are unable to collect the amount of the returned check from the checkwriter. We earn a fee for each guaranteed check, which generally is determined as a percentage of the check amount. Indirect Merchant Services. In the indirect merchant services channel, we provide merchant services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs. International Merchant Services Segment International merchant services revenues represented 29.0% of our total consolidated fiscal 2015 revenues and were derived from operations in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Our business in Europe is primarily located in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation. Our Asia-Pacific region includes the following thirteen countries and territories: Australia, Brunei, China, Hong Kong, India, Macau, Malaysia, Maldives, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Taiwan. We have a direct sales force in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region through which we primarily sell our direct merchant acquiring services while leveraging our bank referral relationships. In the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation, we also provide indirect merchant acquiring services. Total revenues from our segments, by region, were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended May 31, 2015 2014 2013 Revenues: United States $ 1,655,872 $ 1,488,659 $ 1,394,675 Canada 313,018 320,333 311,000 North America merchant services 1,968,890 1,808,992 1,705,675 Europe 615,966 587,463 522,593 Asia-Pacific 188,862 157,781 147,655 International merchant services 804,828 745,244 670,248 Consolidated revenues $ 2,773,718 $ 2,554,236 $ 2,375,923 Based on growth in our international markets and recent management organizational changes, commencing at the beginning of fiscal 2016, we have replaced our International merchant services segment with two new operating segments: Europe and Asia-Pacific. See "Note 14 - Segment Information" in the notes to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for information about each segment's operating income and assets. Our foreign operations subject us to various risks, including, without limitation, currency exchange risks and political, economic and regulatory risks. See "Item 1A - Risk Factors" for additional information about these risks. 8 Table of Contents Industry Overview Competition We are a leading merchant acquirer in the United States, where we compete primarily with Bank of America Merchant Services, LLC, a joint venture between First Data Corporation and Bank of America Corporation, Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC, Elavon, Inc., a subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp, First Data Corporation, Heartland Payment Systems Inc., Vantiv Inc., and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. We have significant market share in Canada, where we compete primarily with Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC, Moneris Solutions Corporation, and TD Bank N.A. Moneris Solutions Corporation is a joint venture between the Bank of Montreal and the Royal Bank of Canada. In Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, financial institutions remain the primary providers of merchant acquiring payment services to merchants, although the outsourcing of these services to third-party service providers is becoming more prevalent. Merchant acquiring payment services have become increasingly complex, requiring significant capital commitments to develop, maintain and update the systems necessary to provide these advanced services at competitive prices. In the United Kingdom, we believe we are third in market position compared to our primary competitors, WorldPay (UK) Limited and Barclays Bank PLC. In Spain, where we hold the leading market position, our primary competitors are Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A., Banco de Sabadell S.A. and Banco Santander S.A. In the Czech Republic, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region, our primary competitors include financial institutions that offer merchant acquiring services in those markets. Emerging Trends The payments industry continues to grow globally and as a result, several large merchant acquirers, including us, have expanded operations globally in the form of acquisitions and the creation of alliances and joint ventures. We believe that the electronic payment services industry will continue to consolidate as banks and independent processors that lack the necessary infrastructure look to exit the business. We believe that payment technology transactions and services will continue to grow in the future and that an increasing percentage of these transactions will be processed through emerging technologies. We provide innovative technology-based solutions to help our merchants and partners simplify the payments process, regardless of the channel through which the transaction occurs. We have also launched a suite of security services that provide point-of-sale, point-to-point encryption, tokenization services, Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS) merchant assistance , real-time fraud protection and other services to enhance and simplify security for all merchants and partners. We continue to expand our forms of payments acceptance supporting radio frequency identification for contactless payment cards and near-field communication enabled smartphones that contain mobile wallet software. This allows us to offer customers the ability to accept payments through mobile wallets or the ability for our customers to use a tablet or other mobile device as a point of sale terminal. As mobile payments continue to evolve, we intend to continue partnering and developing new services that will leverage the benefits that these new technologies can offer our customers. We believe that new markets will continue to develop in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions. We expect industries such as e-commerce, healthcare, education, government, recurring payments and business-to-business to continue to see transaction volumes migrate to more electronic-based settlement solutions. We believe that the continued development of new services and the emergence of new vertical markets will be a factor in the growth of our business for the foreseeable future. Strategy We seek to leverage the adoption of, and transition to, card, electronic and digital-based payments by expanding share in our existing markets through our distribution channels and service innovation, as well as through acquisitions to improve our offerings and scale, while also seeking to enter new markets through acquisitions around the world. We intend to continue to invest in and leverage our technology infrastructure and our people to increase our penetration in existing markets. 9 Table of Contents Our objectives include the following: Grow and control our direct distribution by adding new merchants and partners; Deliver innovative services by developing value-added applications, enhancing existing services and developing new systems and services to blend technology with customer needs; Leverage technology and operational advantages throughout our global footprint; Continue to develop seamless multinational solutions for leading global customers; Provide customer service at levels that exceed our competition, while investing in technology, training and enhancements to our service offerings; and Pursue potential domestic and international acquisitions of, investments in, and alliances with companies that have high growth potential, significant market presence or key technological capabilities. Competitive Strengths We believe that our competitive strengths include the following: Global Footprint and Distribution - Our worldwide presence allows us to focus our investments on markets with promising GDP fundamentals and favorable secular trends, makes us more attractive to merchants with international operations, and exposes us to emerging innovations that we can adopt globally, while diversifying our economic risk. Scalable Operating Environment and Technology Infrastructure - We operate our company as a single, unified international organization, with a multi-channel, global technology infrastructure which provides scalable and innovative service offerings and a consistent service experience to our merchants and partners worldwide, while also driving sustainable operating efficiencies. Strong, Long-lasting Partner Relationships - We have established strong, long-lasting relationships with many financial institutions, enterprise software providers, value-added resellers and other technology-based payment service providers, which facilitate lead generation and enable us to deliver a diverse solutions set to our merchant customers. Disciplined Acquisition Approach - Our proven track record for selectively and successfully completing and integrating acquisitions in existing and new markets positions us well for future growth and as an attractive partner for potential acquisition targets. Safeguarding Our Business Privacy and security are central to our service. We work with information security and forensics firms and employ advanced technologies to investigate and address issues related to processing system security. We also work with industry third parties, regulators and law enforcement to resolve security incidents and assist in efforts to prevent unauthorized access to our processing system. Employees and Labor As of May 31, 2015 , we had 4,438 employees many of whom are highly skilled in technical areas specific to electronic transaction payment services. We believe that our current and future operations depend substantially on retaining our key employees. 10 Table of Contents Regulation Various aspects of our business are subject to regulation and supervision under federal, state and local laws in the United States, as well as foreign laws, regulations and rules. In addition, we are subject to rules promulgated by the various payment networks, including Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, UPI and Interac; the Payment Services Directive in Europe; as well as a variety of other regulations, including escheat laws and applicable privacy and information security regulations. In addition, because we provide data processing services to banks and other financial institutions, we are subject to examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (the "FFIEC"). Set forth below is a brief summary of some of the significant laws and regulations that apply to us. These descriptions are not exhaustive, and these laws, regulations and rules frequently change. Dodd-Frank Act The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), which was signed into law in the United States in July 2010, resulted in significant structural and other changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act directed the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the "Federal Reserve Board") to regulate the debit interchange transaction fees that a card issuer or payment card network receives or charges for an electronic debit transaction. Pursuant to the so-called "Durbin Amendment" to the Dodd-Frank Act, these fees must be "reasonable and proportional" to the cost incurred by the card issuer in authorizing, clearing and settling the transaction. Pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board, debit interchange rates for card issuers with assets of $10 billion or more are capped at $0.21 per transaction and an ad valorem component of 5 basis points to reflect a portion of the issuer's fraud losses plus, for qualifying issuers, an additional $0.01 per transaction in debit interchange for fraud prevention costs. The cap on interchange fees has not had a material direct effect on the Companys results of operations. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act limits the ability of payment card networks to impose certain restrictions. First, it allows merchants to set minimum dollar amounts (not to exceed $10) for the acceptance of a credit card (and allows federal governmental entities and institutions of higher education to set maximum amounts for the acceptance of credit cards). Second, it allows merchants to provide discounts or incentives to encourage consumers to pay with cash, checks, debit cards or credit cards. The rules also contain prohibitions on network exclusivity and merchant routing restrictions that require a card issuer to enable at least two unaffiliated networks on each debit card, prohibit card networks from entering into exclusivity arrangements and restrict the ability of issuers or networks to mandate transaction routing requirements. We do not expect the prohibition on network exclusivity to significantly preclude our ability to pass on network fees and other costs to our customers. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the "FSOC"), which was established to, among other things, identify risks to the stability of the U.S. financial system. The FSOC has the authority to require supervision and regulation of nonbank financial companies that the FSOC determines pose a systemic risk to the U.S. financial system. The Company may be subject to additional systemic risk-related oversight. Payment Network Rules We are subject to the rules of MasterCard, Visa, Discover, UPI, Interac and other payment networks. In order to provide our transaction processing services, several of our subsidiaries are registered with MasterCard and Visa as service providers for member institutions and with other networks. Accordingly, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions. Banking Laws and Regulations The FFIEC is an interagency body comprised of the federal bank and credit union regulators such as the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. The FFIEC examines large data processors in order to identify and mitigate risks associated with systemically significant service providers, including specifically the risks they may pose to the banking industry. In addition, we are subject to Directive 2007/64/EC in the European Union (the "Payment Services Directive"), which was implemented in most European Union member states through national legislation. As a result of this legislation, we are subject to regulation and oversight in certain European Union member nations, including the requirement that we maintain specified regulatory capital; however, these regulatory capital requirements are generally insignificant to our total assets and total equity and have no material effect on our liquidity. 11 Table of Contents Privacy and Information Security Laws We provide services that may be subject to various state, federal and foreign privacy laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which applies to a broad range of financial institutions and to companies that provide services to financial institutions in the United States, including the check and gaming portion of our business. We are also subject to a variety of foreign data protection and privacy laws, including, without limitation, Directive 95/46/EC, as implemented in each member state of the European Union. Among other things, these foreign and domestic laws, and their implementing regulations, in certain cases restrict the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent use and disclosure of protected information. These laws also impose requirements for safeguarding and removal or elimination of personal information. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Requirements In many countries, we are legally or contractually required to comply with anti-money laundering laws and regulations, such as, in the United States, the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (collectively, the "BSA"), and the BSA implementing regulations of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ("FinCEN'), a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. A variety of similar anti-money laundering requirements apply in other countries. In some countries, we are directly subject to these requirements; in other countries, we have contractually agreed to assist our sponsor banks with their obligation to comply with anti-money laundering requirements that apply to them. These laws typically require organizations to: establish and audit anti-money laundering programs; establish procedures for obtaining and verifying customer information; file reports on large cash transactions; and file suspicious activity reports if the financial institution believes a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations. Regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") of the U.S. Department of Treasury place prohibitions and restrictions on all U.S. citizens and entities, including the Company, with respect to transactions by U.S. persons with specified countries and individuals and entities identified on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals list (for example, individuals and companies owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, countries subject to certain economic and trade sanctions, as well as terrorists, terrorist organizations and narcotics traffickers identified by OFAC under programs that are not country specific). Similar requirements apply to transactions and dealings with persons and entities specified in lists maintained in other countries. We have developed procedures and controls that are designed to monitor and address legal and regulatory requirements and developments and that allow our customers to protect against having direct business dealings with such prohibited countries, individuals or entities. Debt Collection Laws The check and gaming portion of our business is subject to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and similar state laws in connection with our check guarantee and recovery services, which guarantee the payment of checks or collection of returned checks on behalf of certain merchants. These laws are designed to eliminate abusive, deceptive and unfair debt collection practices and require licensing at the state level. We have procedures in place to comply with the requirements of these laws and are licensed in a number of states in order to engage in collection in those states. Escheat Laws We are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property laws in the United States and in foreign countries that require us to transfer to certain government authorities the unclaimed property of others that we hold when that property has been unclaimed for a certain period of time. Moreover, we are subject to audit by state regulatory authorities with regard to our escheatment practices. 12 Table of Contents Foreign Laws and Regulations We are subject to foreign laws and regulations that affect the electronic payments industry in each of the foreign countries in which we operate. Some of these countries, such as the Russian Federation and Spain, have undergone significant political, economic and social change in recent years. In these countries, there is a greater risk of new, unforeseen changes that could result from, among other things, instability or changes in a countrys or regions economic conditions; changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise; increased difficulty of conducting business in a country or region due to actual or potential political or military conflict; or action by the European Union or the United States, Canada or other governments that may restrict our ability to transact business in a foreign country or with certain foreign individuals or entities, such as sanctions by or against the Russian Federation. Where to Find More Information We file annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may read and print materials that we have filed with the SEC from its website at www.sec.gov . In addition, certain of our SEC filings, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to them can be viewed and printed from the investor relations section of our website at www.globalpaymentsinc.com free of charge. Certain materials relating to our corporate governance, including our codes of ethics applicable to our directors, senior financial officers and other employees, are also available in the investor relations section of our website. Copies of our filings, specified exhibits and corporate governance materials are also available, free of charge, by writing us using the address on the cover of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("this Annual Report"). You may also telephone our investor relations office directly at (770) 829-8234. We are not including the information on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report. Our SEC filings may also be viewed and copied at the following SEC public reference room and at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, where our common stock is quoted under the symbol "GPN". SEC Public Reference Room 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, DC 20549 (You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.) NYSE Euronext 20 Broad Street New York, NY 10005 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other SEC filings before you decide whether to buy our common stock. The risks identified below are not all encompassing but should be considered in establishing an opinion of our future operations. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our inability to protect our systems and data from continually evolving cybersecurity risks or other technological risks could affect our reputation among our merchant clients and cardholders and may expose us to penalties, fines, liabilities and legal claims. In order to provide our services, we process and store sensitive business information and personal information about our merchants, merchants customers, ISOs, vendors, partners and other parties. This information may include credit and debit card numbers, bank account numbers, social security numbers, drivers license numbers, names and addresses, and other types of personal information or sensitive business information. Some of this information is also processed and stored by our merchants, ISOs, third-party service providers to whom we outsource certain functions, and other agents (which we refer to collectively as our "associated third parties"). We have responsibility to the card networks and their member financial institutions for our failure or the failure of our associated third parties to protect this information. While plans and procedures are in place to protect this sensitive data, we cannot be certain that these measures will be successful and will be sufficient to counter all current and emerging technology threats that are designed to breach our systems in order to gain access to confidential information. Our computer systems and our associated third parties computer systems have been, and could be in the future, subject to penetration, and our data protection measures may not prevent unauthorized access. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and are often difficult to detect. Threats to our systems and our associated third parties systems can derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Computer viruses can be distributed and could infiltrate our systems or those of our associated third parties. In addition, denial of service or other attacks could be launched against us for a variety of purposes, including to interfere with our services or create a diversion for other malicious activities. Our defensive measures may not prevent unauthorized access or use of sensitive data. While we maintain first- and third-party insurance coverage that may cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. We could also be subject to liability for claims relating to misuse of personal information, such as unauthorized marketing purposes and violation of data privacy laws. We cannot provide assurance that the contractual requirements related to security and privacy that we impose on our service providers who have access to merchant and customer data will be followed or will be adequate to prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of data. In addition, we have agreed in certain agreements to take certain protective measures to ensure the confidentiality of merchant and consumer data. The costs of systems and procedures associated with such protective measures may increase and could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Any failure to adequately enforce or provide these protective measures could result in liability, protracted and costly litigation and, with respect to misuse of personal information of our merchants and consumers, lost revenue and reputational harm. Any type of security breach, attack or misuse of data described above or otherwise, whether experienced by us or an associated third party, could harm our reputation and deter existing and prospective customers from using our services or from making electronic payments generally, increase our operating expenses in order to contain and remediate the incident, expose us to unbudgeted or uninsured liability, disrupt our operations (including potential service interruptions), distract our management, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, result in the imposition of penalties and fines under state, federal and foreign laws or by the card networks, and adversely affect our continued card network registration and financial institution sponsorship. Our removal from networks' lists of PCI DSS compliant service providers could mean that existing merchant customers, sales partners or other third parties may cease using or referring our services. Also, prospective merchant customers, sales partners or other third parties may choose to terminate negotiations with us, or delay or choose not to consider us for their processing needs. In addition, the card networks could refuse to allow us to process through their networks. For example, in 2012 , we self-reported unauthorized access into a limited portion of our North America card processing system and potential unauthorized access to servers containing personal information collected from U.S. merchants who applied for processing services. As a result of this event, we were temporarily removed from certain card networks' lists of PCI DSS 14 Table of Contents compliant service providers until the third quarter of fiscal 2013. We incurred approximately $114.2 million of cumulative expenses, net of insurance recoveries, relating to the incident, which also resulted in inquiries from governmental entities. The payment processing industry is highly competitive, and some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources than we do, which may give them an advantage in our market with respect to the pricing of services offered to our customers and the ability to develop new technologies. We operate in the electronic payments market, which is highly competitive. In this market, our primary competitors include other independent payment processors, as well as financial institutions, ISOs and, potentially, card networks. Many of our competitors are companies that are larger than we are, with greater financial and operational resources than we have. Our competitors that are financial institutions or subsidiaries of financial institutions do not incur the costs associated with being sponsored by a direct member for participation in the card networks and may be able to settle transactions more quickly for merchants than we can. These financial institutions may also provide payment processing services to merchants at a loss in order to generate banking fees from the merchants. It is also possible that larger financial institutions could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. These attributes may provide them with a competitive advantage in the market. Furthermore, we are facing increasing competition from non-traditional competitors who offer certain innovations in payment methods. Some of these competitors utilize proprietary software and service solutions. Others partner with traditional merchant acquirers to provide tablet-based solutions with payment processing services. Some of these non-traditional competitors have significant financial resources and robust networks and are highly regarded by consumers. In addition, some non-traditional competitors, such as private companies or startup companies, may be less risk averse than we are and, therefore, may be able to respond more quickly to market demands. If these non-traditional competitors gain a greater share of total electronic payments transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. These competitors may compete in ways that minimize or remove the role of traditional card networks, processors and/or point-of-sale software in the electronic payments process. In order to remain competitive and to continue to increase our revenues and earnings, we must continually and quickly update our services, a process that could result in higher costs and the loss of revenues, earnings and customers if the new services do not perform as intended or are not accepted in the marketplace. The electronic payments markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. In order to remain competitive, we are continually involved in a number of projects, including the development of a new authorization platform, mobile payment applications, e-commerce services and other new offerings emerging in the electronic payments industry. These projects carry the risks associated with any development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance problems. In the electronic payments markets, these risks are even more acute. Any delay in the delivery of new services or the failure to differentiate our services could render them less desirable to our customers, or possibly even obsolete. Furthermore, as the market for alternative payment processing services evolves, it may develop too rapidly or not rapidly enough for us to recover the costs we have incurred in developing new services targeted at this market. In addition, the services we deliver to the electronic payments markets are designed to process very complex transactions and deliver reports and other information on those transactions, all at very high volumes and processing speeds. Any failure to deliver an effective and secure product or any performance issue that arises with a new product or service could result in significant processing or reporting errors or other losses. As a result of these factors, our development efforts could result in higher costs that could reduce our earnings in addition to a loss of revenue and earnings if promised new services are not delivered timely to our customers or do not perform as anticipated. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. Our revenues from the sale of services to merchants that accept Visa cards and MasterCard cards are dependent upon our continued Visa and MasterCard registration and financial institution sponsorship and, in some cases, continued membership in certain card networks. In order to provide our Visa and MasterCard transaction processing services, we must be either a direct participant or be registered as a merchant processor or service provider of Visa and MasterCard. Registration as a merchant processor or service provider is dependent upon our being sponsored by Members of each organization. If our sponsor banks should stop providing sponsorship for us, we would need to find another financial institution to provide those services or we would need to attain direct membership with the card networks, either of which could prove to be difficult and expensive. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution to provide sponsorship or attain direct membership, we may no longer be able to provide processing services 15 Table of Contents to affected customers, which would negatively affect our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, some agreements with our bank sponsors give them substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants and the terms of our agreements with merchants. Our bank sponsors' discretionary actions under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In connection with direct membership, the rules and regulations of various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would limit our use of capital for other purposes. We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If we are unable to maintain clearing services with these financial institutions and are unable to find a replacement, our business may be adversely affected. We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If such financial institutions should stop providing clearing services, we must find other financial institutions to provide those services. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution we may no longer be able to provide processing services to certain customers, which could negatively affect our revenue and earnings. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations. If our merchants or ISOs incur fines or penalties that we cannot collect from them, we may have to bear the cost of such fines or penalties. We are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions. The rules of the card networks are set by their boards, which may be influenced by card issuers, and some of those issuers are our competitors with respect to these processing services. Many banks directly or indirectly sell processing services to merchants in direct competition with us. These banks could attempt, by virtue of their influence on the networks, to alter the networks' rules or policies to the detriment of non-members including us. The termination of our registrations or our status as a service provider or a merchant processor, or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If a merchant or an ISO fails to comply with the applicable requirements of the card associations and networks, it could be subject to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks. If we cannot collect such amounts from the applicable merchant or ISO, we may have to bear the cost of such fines or penalties, resulting in lower earnings for us. The termination of our registration, or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair our registration, could require us to stop providing Visa and MasterCard payment processing services, which would make it impossible for us to conduct our business on its current scale . Our systems and our third-party providers' systems may fail, which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business, increase our costs and expose us to liability. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer systems, software, data centers and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems and services of third parties. A system outage or data loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Not only would we suffer damage to our reputation in the event of a system outage or data loss, but we may also be liable to third parties. Our systems and operations or those of our third-party providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist acts, war, unauthorized entry, human error, and computer viruses or other defects. Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions, telecommunications failures, or other difficulties (including those related to system relocation) could result in loss of revenue, loss of customers, loss of merchant and cardholder data, harm to our business or reputation, exposure to fraud losses or other liabilities, negative publicity, additional operating and development costs, fines and other sanctions imposed by card networks, and/or diversion of technical and other resources. We may experience software defects, undetected errors, and development delays, which could damage customer relations, decrease our potential profitability and expose us to liability. Our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems that often encounter development delays and the underlying software may contain undetected errors, viruses or defects. Defects in our software services and errors or delays in our processing of electronic transactions could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, loss of credibility with current or potential customers, harm to our reputation and exposure to liability claims. 16 Table of Contents In addition, we rely on technologies and software supplied by third parties that may also contain undetected errors, viruses or defects that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increased merchant, referral partner or ISO attrition could cause our financial results to decline. We experience attrition in merchant credit and debit card processing volume resulting from several factors, including business closures, transfers of merchants' accounts to our competitors, unsuccessful contract renewal negotiations and account closures that we initiate for various reasons, such as heightened credit risks or contract breaches by merchants. If an ISO partner switches to another transaction processor, terminates our services, internalizes payment processing functions that we perform, merges with or is acquired by one of our competitors, or shuts down or becomes insolvent, we may no longer receive new merchant referrals from the ISO, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the ISO. We cannot predict the level of attrition in the future and it could increase. Our referral partners are a significant source of new business. Higher than expected attrition could negatively affect our results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In order for us to continue to grow and increase our profitability, we must continue to expand our share of the existing electronic payments markets and also expand into new markets. Our future growth and profitability depend upon our continued expansion within the markets in which we currently operate, the further expansion of these markets, the emergence of other markets for electronic transaction payment processing and our ability to penetrate these markets. As part of our strategy to achieve this expansion, we look for acquisition opportunities, investments and alliance relationships with other businesses that will allow us to increase our market penetration, technological capabilities, product offerings and distribution capabilities. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition, investment and alliance candidates in the future, and if we do, they may not provide us with the value and benefits we anticipate. Our expansion into new markets is also dependent upon our ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure services and distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these new markets. If we fail to expand into new and existing electronic payments markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings. There may be a decline in the use of cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the card industry in general. If consumers do not continue to use credit or debit cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards, and debit cards, which is adverse to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Consumer credit risk may make it more difficult or expensive for consumers to gain access to credit facilities such as credit cards. Regulatory changes may result in financial institutions seeking to charge their customers additional fees for use of credit or debit cards. Such fees may result in decreased use of credit or debit cards by cardholders. In each case, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. We believe future growth in the use of credit and debit cards and other electronic payments will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use electronic payment methods that we process, including credit and debit cards. We incur chargeback liability when our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In the event a dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally charged back to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If we are unable to collect such amounts from the merchant's account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse us for a chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with those merchants that promise future delivery of goods and services rather than delivering goods or rendering services at the time of payment. We may experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have policies to manage merchant-related credit risk and often mitigate such risk by requiring collateral and monitoring transaction activity. Notwithstanding our programs and policies for managing credit 17 Table of Contents risk, it is possible that a default on such obligations by one or more of our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business. Fraud by merchants or others could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We have potential liability for fraudulent electronic payment transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit credit or debit card, card number, or other credentials to record a false sales or credit transaction, processes an invalid card, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and fraud. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase our chargeback liability or cause us to incur other liabilities. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Increases in chargebacks or other liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to economic and political risk, the business cycles and credit risk of our customers and the overall level of consumer, business and government spending, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The global electronic payments industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income and changes in consumer purchasing habits. A sustained deterioration in general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate or increases in interest rates may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions made using electronic payments. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in our revenues and profits. If our merchants make fewer sales of their services using electronic payments or people spend less per transaction, we will have fewer transactions to process at lower amounts, resulting in lower revenues. A downturn in the economy could force retailers to close, resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and future transaction declines. Furthermore, credit card issuers may reduce credit limits and be more selective with respect to whom they issue credit cards. We also have a certain amount of fixed and other costs, including rent, debt service, and salaries, which could limit our ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in our business and the economy. Changes in economic conditions could also adversely affect our future revenues and profits and cause a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, a recessionary economic environment could affect our merchants through a higher rate of bankruptcy filings, resulting in lower revenues and earnings for us. Our associated third parties are also liable for any fines or penalties that may be assessed by any card networks. In the event that we are not able to collect such amounts from our merchants or the associated third parties, due to fraud, breach of contract, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for any such charges. Reject losses arise from the fact that, in most markets, we collect our fees from our merchants on the first day after the monthly billing period. This results in the build-up of a substantial receivable from our customers. If a merchant has gone out of business during the billing period, we may be unable to collect such fees, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increases in credit card network fees may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in our earnings. From time-to-time, the card networks, including Visa and MasterCard, increase the fees that they charge processors. We could attempt to pass these increases along to our merchant customers, but this strategy might result in the loss of customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. If competitive practices prevent us from passing along the higher fees to our merchant customers in the future, we may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases, thereby increasing our operating costs and reducing our earnings. Any new implementation of or changes made to laws, regulations, card network rules or other industry standards affecting our business in any of the geographic regions in which we operate may require significant development efforts or have an unfavorable effect on our financial results. Our business is affected by laws and regulations and examinations that affect us and our industry in the countries in which we operate. Regulation and proposed regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with regulations or guidelines may result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines, or may cause customers or potential customers to be reluctant to do business with us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. 18 Table of Contents For example, we are subject to the card network rules of Visa, MasterCard and other card networks, Interac, and various debit networks; applicable privacy and information security regulations in the regions where we operate and of the card networks; the Payment Services Directive in Europe; The Code of Conduct for the Credit and Debit Card Industry in Canada (issued by Canada's Department of Finance); the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 in the United States, which requires information returns to be made for each calendar year by merchant acquiring entities; and a myriad of U.S. federal and state consumer protection laws and state escheat regulations. We are also subject to examination by the FFIEC as a result of our provision of data processing services to financial institutions. Interchange fees (which are typically paid by the acquirer to the issuer in connection with transactions) are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law in July 2010, significantly changed the U.S. financial regulatory system. Changes affecting the payment processing industry include restricting amounts of debit card fees that certain issuing institutions can charge merchants and allowing merchants to set minimum amounts for the acceptance of credit cards and to offer discounts for different payment methods. These restrictions could negatively affect the number of debit transactions, which would adversely affect our business. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the "CFPB"), which has assumed responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which has the authority to determine whether any nonbank financial company, such as us, should be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve") on the ground that it is "systemically important "to the U.S. financial system. Any such designation would result in increased regulatory burdens on our business, which increases our risk profile and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. All persons offering or providing financial services or products to consumers, directly or indirectly, can be subject to prohibitions against unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices (UDAAP) under the Dodd-Frank Act. The CFPB has enforcement authority to prevent an entity that offers or provides consumer financial services or products or a service provider from committing or engaging in UDAAP, including the ability to engage in joint investigations with other agencies, issue subpoenas and civil investigative demands, conduct hearings and adjudication proceedings, commence a civil action, grant relief (e.g., limit activities or functions; rescission of contracts), and refer matters for criminal proceedings. More generally, all persons engaged in commerce, including, but not limited to, us and our merchant and financial institution customers, are also subject to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") Act prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices ("UDAP"). In addition, there are other laws, rules and or regulations, including the Telemarketing Sales Act, that may directly impact the activities of our merchant customers and in some cases may subject us, as the merchant's payment processor, to investigations, fees, fines and disgorgement of funds in the event we are deemed to have aided and abetted or otherwise provided the means and instrumentalities to facilitate the illegal activities of the merchant through our payment processing services. Various federal and state regulatory enforcement agencies, including the FTC, the CFPB and the states attorneys general have the authority to take action against nonbanks that engage in UDAP or violate other laws, rules or regulations and, to the extent we are processing payments for a merchant that may be in violation of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to enforcement actions and as a result may incur losses and liabilities. In many countries, we are legally or contractually required to comply with the anti-money laundering laws and regulations, such as, in the United States, the BSA, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, and similar laws of other countries, which require that customer identifying information be obtained and verified. In some countries, we are directly subject to these requirements; in other countries, we have contractually agreed to assist our sponsor banks with their obligation to comply with any-money laundering requirements that apply to them. In addition, we and our sponsor banks are subject to the laws and regulations enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"), which prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in transactions with certain prohibited persons or entities. Similar requirements apply in other countries. Our failure to comply with any of these contractual requirements or laws could adversely affect our business, financial credit and results of operations. Changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, even if not directed at us, may require significant efforts to change our systems and services and may require changes to how we price our services to customers, adversely affecting our business. Even an inadvertent failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage our business or our reputation. Furthermore, we are subject to tax laws in each jurisdiction where we conduct business. Changes in such laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive, the value of tax losses and tax credit carry forwards recorded on our balance sheet and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with changes in interest rates or currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and we may not effectively hedge against these risks. We have incurred significant indebtedness that accrues interest at a variable rate, and we may incur additional variable-rate indebtedness in the future. Increases in interest rates will reduce our operating cash flows and could hinder our ability to fund our operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases or dividends. We are also subject to risks related to the changes in currency exchange rates as a result of our investments in foreign operations and from revenues generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Revenue and profit generated by international operations will increase or decrease compared to prior periods as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Volatility in currency exchange rates has affected and may continue to affect our financial results. In addition, in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our foreign currency into U.S. dollars or limit our ability to freely move currency in or out of particular jurisdictions. The occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. We may seek to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates through the use of hedging arrangements. To the extent that we hedge our interest rate or foreign currency exchange rate exposures, we forgo the benefits we would otherwise experience if interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates were to change in our favor. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates and foreign exchange rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. In addition, a counterparty to the arrangement could default on its obligation, thereby exposing us to credit risk. We may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if we terminate these arrangements. Finally, our interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if such rates move materially differently from our expectations. We conduct a portion of our business in various European and Asia-Pacific countries, including the Russian Federation, where the risk of continued political, economic and regulatory change that could affect our operating results is greater than in the United States. We expect to continue to expand our operations into various countries in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Some of these countries, and other foreign countries in which we operate, such as the Russian Federation, have undergone significant political, economic and social change in recent years, and the risk of new, unforeseen changes in these countries remains greater than in the United States. Our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by instability or changes in a countrys or regions economic conditions; changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise; increased difficulty of conducting business in a country or region due to actual or potential political or military conflict; or action by the European Union or the United States, Canada or other governments that may restrict our ability to transact business in a foreign country or with certain foreign individuals or entities, such as sanctions by or against the Russian Federation. In addition, transmittal of data by electronic means and telecommunications is subject to specific regulation in many countries. Although these regulations have not had a material effect on us to date, changes in these regulations, including taxation or limitations on transfers of data between countries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The integration and conversion of our acquired operations, or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating both businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process. The acquisition, integration, and conversion of businesses involve a number of risks. Core risks are in the area of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited diligence) and integration and conversion (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, services, technology and other assets to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition). In addition, international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems, and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; complying with foreign regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty entering new foreign markets due to, among other things, customer acceptance and business knowledge of those new markets; and general economic and political conditions. 20 Table of Contents If the integration and conversion process does not proceed smoothly, the following factors, among others, could reduce our revenues and earnings, increase our operating costs, and result in a loss of projected synergies: If we are unable to successfully integrate the benefits plans, duties and responsibilities, and other factors of interest to the management and employees of the acquired business, we could lose employees to our competitors in the region, which could significantly affect our ability to operate the business and complete the integration; If the integration process causes any delays with the delivery of our services, or the quality of those services, we could lose customers to our competitors, which would reduce our revenues and earnings; and The acquisition and the related integration could divert the attention of our management from other strategic matters including possible acquisitions and alliances and planning for new product development or expansion into new electronic payments markets. The costs and effects of pending and future litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are from time-to-time involved in various litigation matters and governmental or regulatory investigations or similar matters arising out of our current or future business. Our insurance or indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in pending or future litigation or similar matters under various laws. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any pending litigation or future litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. In our rapidly developing legal framework, we rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or may develop software or technology competitive to us. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around our intellectual property rights. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which is expensive and could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete. We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our services and technology infringe upon another partys proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our services or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our services or technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could limit our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims and require us to design around a third partys patent, which may not be possible, or to license alternative technology from another party, which may be costly. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees. Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or changes to enacted tax rates could adversely affect our tax expense. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively affecting our results of operations. We have recognized estimated liabilities on the balance sheet for material known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item. These liabilities reflect what we believe to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely final resolution of each issue if raised by a taxing authority. While we believe that the liabilities are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be finally resolved at a financial cost less than any related liability. An unfavorable resolution, therefore, could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. We record deferred income taxes to reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial accounting and income tax purposes. Deferred income taxes are determined using enacted tax rates. Changes in enacted tax rates may negatively affect our results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We may become subject to additional U.S., state or foreign taxes that cannot be passed through to our merchant services customers, in which case our earnings could be adversely affected. As a payment processing company we are or may be subject to taxation by various jurisdictions on our net income or certain portions of our fees charged to customers for our services. Application of these taxes is an emerging issue in our industry and the taxing authorities have not yet all adopted uniform regulations on this topic. If we are required to pay such taxes and are not able to pass the tax expense through to our merchant customers, our costs will increase, reducing our earnings. We have structured our business in accordance with existing tax laws and interpretations of such laws which have been confirmed through either tax rulings or opinions obtained in various jurisdictions, including those related to value-added taxes in Europe. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive and the amount of our cash flows and have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Organizational and Capital Structure If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel as we grow, our business could be adversely affected. All of our businesses function at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic and regulatory developments that requires a wide ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. To successfully compete and grow, we must recruit, develop and retain the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of intellectual capital needs. In addition, we must develop our personnel to fulfill succession plans capable of maintaining continuity in the midst of the inevitable unpredictability of human capital. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. We cannot assure that key personnel, including executive officers, will continue to be employed or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company's debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our credit facilities contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability in certain circumstances to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into certain lines of business; and enter into certain transactions with affiliates. Our credit facilities also contain customary financial covenants based on our leverage ratio and our fixed charge coverage ratio. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of the revolving credit facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under certain of our other indebtedness. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our credit facilities could accelerate the repayment of borrowings, and we may not have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities as well as our other indebtedness. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets are intangible assets (including goodwill). Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortization, together accounted for approximately 35.4% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of May 31, 2015 . We expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. We evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to record an impairment 22 Table of Contents charge, which would negatively affect our earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to or we may decide not to pay dividends or repurchase shares at a level anticipated by shareholders of our common stock, which could reduce shareholder returns. The extent to which we pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock in the future is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other factors, our earnings, shareholders' equity, cash position, and financial condition. No assurance can be given that we will be able to or will choose to pay any dividends or repurchase any shares in the foreseeable future. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. We operate in a rapidly changing industry. Accordingly, our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective to identify, monitor and manage our risks. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in identifying and mitigating all risks to which we are or may be exposed, we may suffer uninsured liability, harm to our reputation or be subject to litigation or regulatory actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Further, this assessment may be complicated by any acquisitions we may complete. In certain markets, including, without limitation, China, the Republic of Malta and Spain, our member sponsors perform payment processing operations and related support services pursuant to services agreements. We expect that the member sponsors will continue to provide these services until such time as we may integrate these functions into our operations. Accordingly, we rely on our member sponsors to provide financial data, such as amounts billed to merchants, to assist us with compiling our accounting records. As such, our internal control over financial reporting could be materially affected, or are reasonably likely to be materially affected, by the internal control and procedures of our member sponsors in these markets. In order to mitigate this risk, we have implemented internal controls over financial reporting which monitor the accuracy of the financial data being provided by our member sponsors. While we continue to dedicate resources and management time to ensuring that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the market's perception of our business and our stock price. Anti-takeover provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and provisions of Georgia law could delay or prevent a change of control that individual shareholders favor. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and provisions of applicable Georgia law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that shareholders may consider favorable. The provisions of our articles and by-laws, among other things: divide our Board of Directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected in staggered three-year terms; limit the right of shareholders to remove directors; regulate how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of shareholders; and authorize our Board of Directors to issue preferred shares in one or more series, without shareholder approval. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES The following summarizes by segment the type and number of facilities we use to operate our business as of May 31, 2015 : Type of Facility Leased Owned North America merchant services: Multi-purpose (operations, sales, administrative) offices 17 Sales offices 3 20 International merchant services: Multi-purpose (operations, sales, administrative) offices 20 2 Sales offices 17 37 2 Total 57 2 Our principal facilities in the United States are located in Atlanta, Georgia; Owings Mills, Maryland; Pleasant Grove, Utah and Las Vegas, Nevada. Our principal international facilities are located in Brisbane, Australia; Toronto, Canada; Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China; Prague, Czech Republic; Leicester, England; London, England; Dublin, Ireland; Manila, Philippines; Moscow, Russia; and Barcelona, Spain. We believe that all of our facilities and equipment are suitable and adequate for our business as presently conducted. ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are party to a number of claims and lawsuits incidental to our business. In our opinion, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from the outcome of such matters, individually or in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Part II ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "GPN." The table set forth below provides the intraday high and low sales prices and dividends paid per share of our common stock for the four quarters during fiscal 2015 and 2014 . We expect to continue to pay our shareholders a dividend per share, on a quarterly basis, in an amount comparable to the dividends indicated in the table. However, any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant. High Low Dividend Per Share Fiscal 2015: First Quarter $ 74.46 $ 67.34 $ 0.02 Second Quarter 86.71 68.60 0.02 Third Quarter 92.99 77.15 0.02 Fourth Quarter 106.06 87.68 0.02 Fiscal 2014: First Quarter $ 49.75 $ 44.84 $ 0.02 Second Quarter 64.41 47.35 0.02 Third Quarter 70.77 61.22 0.02 Fourth Quarter 73.84 64.66 0.02 As of July 22, 2015 , there were 2,113 shareholders of record. Equity Compensation Plan Information The information regarding our compensation plans under which equity securities are authorized for issuance is set forth in "Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" of this Annual Report. Sale of Unregistered Securities We did not issue any unregistered securities during the year ended May 31, 2015 . Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares our cumulative shareholder returns with the Standard & Poor's Information Technology Index and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index for the five years ended May 31, 2015 . The line graph assumes the investment of $100 in our common stock, the Standard & Poor's Information Technology Index and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index on May 31, 2010 and assumes reinvestment of all dividends. 25 Table of Contents *$100 invested on May 31, 2010 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending May 31. Copyright 2013 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. Global Payments S&P 500 S&P Information Technology May 31, 2010 $ 100.00 $ 100.00 $ 100.00 May 31, 2011 123.38 125.95 121.13 May 31, 2012 101.05 125.43 130.30 May 31, 2013 114.29 159.64 150.00 May 31, 2014 163.59 192.28 185.84 May 31, 2015 249.30 214.99 220.80 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities During the year ended May 31, 2015 , our Board of Directors authorized the additional repurchase of up to $302.3 million of our common stock. Under these and other existing authorizations, we repurchased and retired 4.5 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $369.0 million including commissions, or an average price of $81.99 per share, during the year ended May 31, 2015 . 26 Table of Contents Information about the shares of our common stock that we repurchased during the quarter ended May 31, 2015 is set forth below: Month Number of Shares Purchased Average Price per Share Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (in millions) March 2015 380,626 $ 90.80 380,626 April 2015 880,527 97.65 880,527 May 2015 1,261,153 $ 95.59 1,261,153 $ 102.9 In addition to the shares we repurchased on the open market as set forth in the table above, during the quarter ended May 31, 2015 , pursuant to our employee incentive plans, we repurchased 2,388 shares at an average price per share of $98.48 in order to satisfy employees tax withholding and payment obligations in connection with the vesting of awards of restricted stock, which we repurchased at fair market value on the vesting date. ITEM 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA You should read the selected financial data set forth below in conjunction with "Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "