Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on February 21, 2020. Executive Overview We are a leading pure play payments technology company delivering innovative software and services to our customers globally. Our technologies, services and employee expertise enable us to provide a broad range of solutions that allow our customers to operate their businesses more efficiently across a variety of channels around the world. We operate in three reportable segments: Merchant Solutions, Issuer Solutions and Business and Consumer Solutions. See "Note 16Segment Information" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information about our segments. On September 18, 2019, we consummated our merger with Total System Services, Inc. ("TSYS") (the "Merger") for total purchase consideration of $24.5 billion, primarily funded with shares of our common stock. Prior to the Merger, TSYS was a leading global payments provider, offering seamless, secure and innovative solutions to issuers, merchants and consumers. Consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2020 reflect a full year of the acquired operations of TSYS, while the prior year includes the acquired operations of TSYS only from the acquisition date through December 31, 2019. We continue to focus on merger and integration activities, such as combining business operations, aligning go-to-market strategies, streamlining technology infrastructure, eliminating duplicative corporate and operational support structures and realizing scale efficiencies. We also continue to invest in software and hardware to support the development of new technologies, infrastructure to support our growing business and continued consolidation and enhancement of our operating platforms. See "Note 2Acquisitions" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the Merger. Effects of COVID-19 on Our Business In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus a global pandemic. During 2020 and continuing into 2021, the global economy has been, and continues to be, affected by COVID-19. The pandemic has caused and may continue to cause significant disruptions to businesses and markets worldwide as the virus continues to spread or has a resurgence in certain jurisdictions. The pandemic and measures to prevent its spread affected our financial results during 2020. As governments took actions to encourage social distancing and implement shelter-in-place directives, spending and transaction volumes decreased beginning in mid-March 2020. We saw improvement in our financial results and positive trends during the latter half of 2020 as certain state and local governments in the United States and abroad began to gradually ease restrictions, certain businesses reopened and spending increased. While we continue to see signs of economic recovery, the 32 Table of Contents rate of recovery has been affected by the recent reinstatement of restrictions in certain jurisdictions both in the United States and internationally due to a resurgence of the virus. We have taken a number of actions to preserve our available capital and provide financial flexibility in response to the effects of COVID-19 on our business, including temporarily suspending our share repurchase program during the second and third quarters of 2020 and reducing our planned capital investments in the business. We also implemented cost-saving actions, such as reductions in employee compensation costs and discretionary spending, to help mitigate the financial effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. We continue to closely monitor the evolving effects of the COVID-19 pandemic; however, the implications on future global economic conditions and related effects on our business and financial condition are difficult to predict due to uncertainties around the ultimate severity, scope and duration of the pandemic, the availability and effectiveness of treatments or vaccines and the direction or extent of current or future restrictive actions that may be imposed by governments or public health authorities. While we expect the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and earnings in 2021, we do expect a steady and progressive recovery throughout the year. For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our future operating results related to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, see Item 1A Risk Factors. Emerging Trends The payments technology industry continues to grow worldwide and as a result, certain large payment technology companies, including us, have expanded operations globally by pursuing acquisitions and creating alliances and joint ventures. We expect to continue to expand into new markets internationally and increase our scale and improve our competitiveness in existing markets by pursuing additional acquisitions and joint ventures. The industry continues to grow as a result of wider merchant acceptance and increased use of credit and debit cards, advances in payment processing technology and migration to ecommerce, omnichannel and contactless payment solutions. The proliferation of credit and debit cards, as well as other digital payment solutions, has made the acceptance of electronic payments a virtual necessity for many businesses, regardless of size, in order to remain competitive. Further, the expanding digitization of the economy and availability and access to financial services increases the demand for cards and electronic payments, which in turn drives growth in acceptance and transaction volumes. The outbreak of the COVID-19 virus in 2020 introduced numerous economic and operational challenges for many industries and businesses. However, the outbreak has also accelerated the use of electronic payments, the need for development of technologies and electronic-based solutions and expansion of ecommerce, omnichannel and contactless payment solutions. We believe that the number of electronic payment transactions will continue to grow and that an increasing percentage of these will be facilitated through emerging technologies. As a result, we expect an increasing portion of our future capital investment will be allocated to support the development of new and emerging technologies. We also believe new markets will continue to develop in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions. We expect industries such as education, government and healthcare, as well as recurring payments and business-to-business payments, to continue to see transactions migrate to electronic-based solutions. We anticipate that the continued development of new services and the emergence of new vertical markets will be a factor in the growth of our business and our revenue in the future. For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our continuing operating results, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Results of Operations Revenues Merchant Solutions. The majority of our Merchant Solutions segment revenues is generated by services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type or the vertical. We also earn software subscription and licensing fees, as well as other fees based on specific value-added services that may be unrelated to the number or value of transactions. These revenues depend upon a number of factors, such as demand for and price of our services, the technological competitiveness of our offerings, our reputation for providing timely and reliable service, competition within our industry and general economic conditions. We provide payment technology and software solutions to customers and fund settlement either directly, in markets where we have direct membership with the payment networks, or through our relationship with a member financial institution in 33 Table of Contents markets where we are sponsored. Revenues are generally recognized in the amount of customer billing, net of interchange fees and payment network fees. We market our services through a variety of relationship-led and technology enabled distribution channels, including a direct sales force, trade associations, agent and enterprise software providers and referral arrangements with value-added resellers ("VARs"). We also sell services to ISOs and financial institutions. In certain of these arrangements, the ISO receives a share of the customer profitability in the form of a monthly residual payment, which is reflected as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income. Issuer Solutions. Issuer Solutions segment revenues are derived from long-term processing contracts with financial institutions and other financial services providers. Payment processing services revenues are generated primarily from charges based on the number of accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, statements generated and/or mailed, managed services, cards embossed and mailed, and other processing services for cardholder accounts on file. Most of these contracts have prescribed annual minimums, penalties for early termination, and service level agreements that may affect contractual fees if specific service levels are not achieved. Issuer Solutions revenues also include loyalty redemption services and professional services. Business and Consumer Solutions. Business and Consumer Solutions segment revenues principally consist of fees collected from cardholders and fees generated by cardholder activity in connection with the programs that we manage. Customers are typically charged a fee for each purchase transaction made using their cards, unless the customer is on a monthly or annual service plan, in which case the customer is instead charged a monthly or annual subscription fee, as applicable. Customers are also charged a monthly maintenance fee after a specified period of inactivity. We also charge fees associated with additional services offered in connection with certain cards, including the use of overdraft features, a variety of bill payment options, card replacement, foreign exchange and card-to-card transfers of funds initiated through our call centers. Revenues are recognized net of fees charged by the payment networks for services they provide in processing transactions routed through them. Operating Expenses Cost of Service Cost of service consists primarily of salaries, wages and related expenses paid to operations and technology-related personnel, including those who monitor our transaction processing systems and settlement functions; the cost of transaction processing systems, including third-party services; the cost of network telecommunications capability; depreciation and occupancy costs associated with the facilities supporting these functions; amortization of intangible assets; amortization of costs to fulfill customer contracts; provisions for operating losses; and, when applicable, integration expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, wages, commissions and related expenses paid to sales personnel, customer support functions other than those supporting revenue, administrative employees and management; share-based compensation expense; amortization of costs to obtain customer contracts; residuals paid to ISOs; fees paid to VARs, independent contractors and other third parties; other selling expenses; occupancy costs of leased space directly related to these functions; advertising costs; and, when applicable, acquisition and integration expenses. Operating Income and Operating Margin For the purpose of discussing segment operations, we refer to "operating income," which is calculated by subtracting segment direct expenses from segment revenues. Overhead and shared expenses, including share-based compensation, are not allocated to segment operations; they are reported in the caption "Corporate." Similarly, we refer to "operating margin" regarding segment operations, which is calculated by dividing segment operating income by segment revenues. Equity in Income of Equity Method Investments As a result of the Merger, we have equity method investments, including a 45% investment in China UnionPay Data Co., Ltd., which we account for using the equity method of accounting. Equity in income of equity method investments reflects our proportional share of earnings from these investments. 34 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 The following table sets forth key selected financial data for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, this data as a percentage of total revenues, and the changes between periods in dollars and as a percentage of the prior-period amount. The income statement data for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are derived from the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in "