Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on February 14, 2024. 38 Table of Contents Executive Overview We are a leading payments technology company delivering innovative software and services to our customers globally. Our technologies, services and team member expertise allow us to provide a broad range of solutions that enable our customers to operate their businesses more efficiently across a variety of channels around the world. We have grown organically, as well as through acquisitions, and continue to invest in new technology solutions, infrastructure to support our growing business and the ongoing consolidation and enhancement of our operating platforms. These investments include new product development and innovation to further enhance and differentiate our suite of technology and solutions available to customers, along with migration of certain underlying technology platforms to cloud environments to enhance performance, improve speed to market and drive cost efficiencies. We also continue to execute on integration and business transformation activities, such as combining business operations, streamlining technology infrastructure, eliminating duplicative corporate and operational support structures and realizing scale efficiencies. We have furthered our business strategy through the following key transactions during 2024: We completed the sale of AdvancedMD, Inc. ("AdvancedMD") in December 2024 for approximately $1 billion, subject to certain closing adjustments, and up to $125 million contingent upon the purchaser achieving certain specified returns. AdvancedMD is a provider of software-as-a-service solutions to small-to-medium sized ambulatory physician practices in the United States and was included in our Merchant Solutions segment prior to disposition. We recognized a gain on the sale of $273.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2024. Our capital structure initiatives during 2024 included the issuance of $2.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of 1.500% convertible senior notes due March 2031 through a private placement. In connection with the issuance of the notes, we entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions to hedge the potential dilutive effect upon conversion of the notes, or offset our cash obligation if the cash settlement option were to be elected, for amounts in excess of the principal amount of converted notes up to a cap price. Highlights related to our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2024 include the following: Consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased to $10,105.9 million, compared to $9,654.4 million for the prior year. The increase in consolidated revenues was primarily due to growth in transaction volume. The year-over-year favorable effect on revenues from the EVO business acquired in March 2023 was offset by the unfavorable effect on revenues from the dispositions of our gaming and consumer businesses in April 2023. Merchant Solutions and Issuer Solutions segment operating income and operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to the favorable effect of increases in revenues, as certain fixed costs do not vary with revenues. Merchant Solutions operating income for the year ended December 31, 2024 also reflected an increase related to the acquired EVO business, as the year ended December 31, 2023 only included the acquisition for a portion of the period. Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2024 included the favorable effects of the increase in revenues as compared to the prior year, as well as lower acquisition and integration expenses and share-based compensation expense. These favorable effects were offset by expenses related to business transformation activities, a technology asset charge and an increase in amortization of acquired intangibles, primarily related to the acquisition of EVO as discussed in further detail below. Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2024 included the gain on the sale of AdvancedMD described above. Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2023 included the effects of the gain on the sale of our gaming business and the loss on the sale of our consumer business. 39 Table of Contents Strategy and Business Transformation Early in 2024, we launched a holistic review of our business to examine our strategy, operations and ability to deliver sustainable performance. We have refreshed our strategy and are focusing our resources, efforts and investments on the areas of the business that will drive the best opportunities for growth. These strategic, organizational and operational transformation activities are expected to continue over the next few years. As we focus on executing and delivering transformation initiatives, we have incurred and anticipate incurring incremental expenses related to the transformation and potential additional asset impairment charges through early 2027. We are also undertaking a strategic review of our business portfolio to evaluate potential assets for disposition to further streamline our business and create value for shareholders. We currently expect our transformation initiatives to generate more than $600 million of annual run-rate operating income benefit by the first half of 2027. Refer to "Item 1 - Business" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details regarding this business transformation initiative. Continuing and Emerging Trends The payments technology industry continues to evolve and grow worldwide and as a result, certain large payment technology companies, including us, have expanded operations globally by pursuing acquisitions and creating alliances and joint ventures. We expect to continue to expand into new markets and pursue additional acquisitions and joint ventures in existing markets to increase our scale and improve our competitiveness. The industry continues to grow globally as a result of wider merchant acceptance and increased use of credit and debit cards, advances in payment processing technology and migration to ecommerce, omnichannel and contactless payment solutions. The proliferation of credit and debit cards, as well as other digital payment solutions, has made the acceptance of digital payments a virtual necessity for many businesses, regardless of size, in order to remain competitive. Furthermore, the expanding digitization of the economy and availability and access to financial services increases the demand for cards and digital payment solutions, which in turn drives growth in acceptance and transaction volumes. We believe the increased use of cards and the availability of more sophisticated technology services to all market segments will continue to result in an increasingly competitive and specialized industry. The use of digital payment solutions, the need for development of technologies and digital-based solutions andexpansion of ecommerce, omnichannel and contactless payment solutions has accelerated. We believe that the number of digital payment transactions will continue to grow and that an increasing percentage of these will be facilitated through emerging technologies. As a result, we expect an increasing portion of our future capital investment will be allocated to support the development of new and emerging technologies, including technology modernization, innovation and integration through strategic partnerships. We also believe new markets will continue to develop and expand in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions. We expect industries such as education, government and healthcare, as well as recurring payments and business-to-business ("B2B") payments, to continue to see transactions migrate to digital-based solutions. We anticipate that the continued development of new services and technologies, the emergence of new vertical markets and continued expansion of technology-enabled ecommerce and omnichannel solutions, including expanded scale and market reach through new innovative cloud-based capabilities and strategic partnerships, will be a factor in the growth of our business and our revenues in the future. Furthermore, due to its benefits and growth potential, we anticipate the increased exploration of use of AI in the payments industry. For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our continuing operating results, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Macroeconomic Effects and Other Global Conditions We are exposed to general economic conditions, including currency fluctuations, inflation, rising interest rates and other conditions that affect the overall level of consumer, business and government spending, which could negatively affect our financial performance. When adverse macroeconomic conditions arise, we evaluate where we may be able to implement cost-saving measures, including those related to headcount and discretionary expenses. We may also experience the effects of heightened geopolitical and economic instability or increased difficulty of conducting business in a country or region due to actual or potential political or military conflict or action. 40 Table of Contents Certain of our operations are conducted in foreign currencies. Consequently, a portion of our revenues and expenses has been and may continue to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar or other significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in an adverse effect on our future financial results; however, we are unable to predict the extent of the potential effect on our financial results. We have sought to reduce our interest rate risk through the issuance of fixed rate debt in place of variable rate debt and through interest rate swap hedging arrangements that convert a significant portion of the eligible variable rate borrowings under our revolving credit facility to a fixed rate. However, inflationary pressure or interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial performance as a result of higher costs and/or lower consumer spending. In addition, continued inflation or a rise in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our future financial results and the recoverability of assets. However, as the future magnitude, duration and effects of these conditions are difficult to predict, we are unable to project the extent of the potential effect on our financial results. We regularly maintain cash balances with financial institutions in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit or the equivalent outside the U.S. A disruption in financial markets could harm our banking partners, which could affect our ability to access our cash or cash equivalents, our ability to provide settlement services or our customers' ability to access their existing cash to fulfill their payment obligations to us. The occurrence of these events could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our future operating results, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Results of Operations Key Drivers of our Results of Operations Our revenues for both of our segments are dependent upon the volume of payment transactions we process, cardholder accounts on file and other factors (referred to herein as "transaction volume"). As the majority of our services are priced as a percentage of transaction value or specified fee per unit or transaction, many under multi-year customer arrangements, our revenues generally grow period-over-period in line with the rate of increase in transaction volume. Our operating expenses consist primarily of amortization of intangible assets, the cost of the technology to provide services to our customers and our people costs to support the operations. Many of those costs do not vary directly with the level of payment transactions we process for our customers, generating operating leverage. As revenues increase, operating income and operating margin (operating income as a percentage of revenues) generally increase. We also grow our business through strategic acquisitions of similar businesses. Our revenues increase from the transaction volume from the customers of the acquired businesses. As we integrate the businesses, we also are able to improve operating income and operating margin by generating synergies to lower the cost base of those businesses. Revenues Merchant Solutions. The majority of our Merchant Solutions segment revenues is generated by services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type or industry vertical. We also earn software subscription and licensing fees, as well as other fees for specific value-added services that may be unrelated to the number or value of transactions. Merchant Solutions segment revenues depend upon a number of factors, such as demand for and price of our services, the technological competitiveness of our offerings, our reputation for providing timely and reliable service, competition within our industry and general economic conditions. We provide payment technology and software solutions to customers and fund settlement either directly, in markets where we have direct membership with the payment networks, or through our relationship with a member financial institution in markets where we are sponsored. Revenues are generally recognized as billed to the customer, net of interchange fees and payment network fees. We market our services through a variety of distribution channels, including a direct sales force, trade associations, agent and enterprise software providers and referral arrangements with value-added resellers ("VARs"). We also provide services to merchants referred by ISOs, payment facilitators and financial institutions. In certain of these arrangements, the external partner receives a share of the customer profitability in the form of a monthly residual payment, which is reflected as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. 41 Table of Contents Issuer Solutions. Issuer Solutions segment revenues are primarily derived from long-term processing contracts with financial institutions and other financial services providers. Payment processing services revenues are generated primarily from charges based on the number of accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, statements generated and/or mailed, managed services, cards embossed and mailed and other processing services for cardholder accounts on file. Most of these customer contracts have prescribed annual minimums, penalties for early termination and service level agreements that may affect contractual fees if specific service levels are not achieved. Issuer Solutions revenues also include loyalty redemption services, professional services, and fees from B2B payments services and other financial service solutions marketed to businesses, including software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings that automate key procurement processes, provide invoice capture, coding and approval, and enable virtual cards and integrated payments options across a variety of key vertical markets. Consumer Solutions. During the second quarter of 2023, we completed the sale of the consumer portion of our Netspend business, which comprised our former Consumer Solutions segment. For the periods prior to disposition, our Consumer Solutions arrangements included a stand-ready performance obligation to provide account access and facilitate purchase transactions. Revenues principally consisted of fees collected from cardholders and fees generated by cardholder activity in connection with the programs that we managed. Customers were typically charged a fee for each purchase transaction made using their cards, unless the customer was on a monthly or annual service plan, in which case the customer was instead charged a monthly or annual subscription fee, as applicable. Customers were also charged a monthly maintenance fee after a specified period of inactivity. We also charged fees associated with additional services offered in connection with our accounts, including the use of overdraft features, a variety of bill payment options, card replacement, foreign exchange and card-to-card transfers of funds initiated through our call centers.Revenues were recognized net of fees charged by the payment networks for services they provided in processing transactions routed through them. Operating Expenses Cost of Service. Cost of service consists primarily of salaries, wages and related expenses paid to operations and technology-related personnel, including those who monitor our transaction processing systems and settlement functions; the cost of transaction processing systems, including third-party services; the cost of network telecommunications capability; depreciation and occupancy costs associated with the facilities supporting these functions; amortization of intangible assets; costs to fulfill customer contracts; provisions for operating losses; and, when applicable, integration costs. In our Issuer Solutions segment, cost of service also includes out-of-pocket reimbursable costs, such as postage and other production items. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, wages, commissions and related expenses paid to sales personnel, customer support functions other than those supporting revenues, administrative employees and management; share-based compensation; costs to obtain customer contracts; residuals paid to ISOs; fees paid to VARs, independent contractors and other third parties; other selling expenses; depreciation and occupancy costs of leased space directly related to these functions; advertising costs; and, when applicable, acquisition and integration costs and business transformation costs. Operating Income and Operating Margin For the purpose of discussing segment operations, we refer to "operating income," which is calculated by subtracting segment direct expenses, including both cost of service and selling, general and administrative expenses, from segment revenues. Overhead and shared expenses, including share-based compensation, are not allocated to segment operations; they are reported in the caption "Corporate." Impairment of goodwill and gains or losses on business dispositions are also not included in determining segment operating income. In addition, in discussing segment operations we refer to "operating margin," which is calculated by dividing segment operating income by segment revenues. Equity in Income of Equity Method Investments We have equity method investments, including a 45% interest in China UnionPay Data Co., Ltd., which we account for using the equity method of accounting. Equity in income of equity method investments reflects our proportional share of earnings from these investments. 42 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2024 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2023 The following table sets forth key selected financial data for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, this data as a percentage of total revenues, and the changes between periods in dollars and as a percentage of the prior-period amount. The income statement data for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 is derived from the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in "