Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on February 19, 2021. On September 18, 2019, we consummated our merger with Total System Services, Inc. ("TSYS") (the "Merger") for total purchase consideration of $24.5 billion, primarily funded with shares of our common stock. Consolidated operating results for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021 each reflect a full year of the acquired operations of TSYS, while consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2019 include the acquired operations of TSYS only from the acquisition date through December 31, 2019. See "Note 2Acquisitions" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the Merger. 32 Table of Contents Executive Overview We are a leading payments technology company delivering innovative software and services to our customers globally. Our technologies, services and team member expertise allow us to provide a broad range of solutions that enable our customers to operate their businesses more efficiently across a variety of channels around the world. We operate in three reportable segments: Merchant Solutions, Issuer Solutions and Business and Consumer Solutions. See "Note 16Segment Information" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information about our segments. We have grown organically as well as through acquisitions. We also continue to invest in new technology solutions, infrastructure to support our growing business and the continued consolidation and enhancement of our operating platforms. These investments include new product development and innovation to further enhance and differentiate our suite of technology and cloud-based solutions available to customers, along with migration of certain underlying technology platforms to cloud environments to enhance performance and drive cost efficiencies. We also continue to execute on merger and integration activities, primarily related to the Merger, such as combining business operations, streamlining technology infrastructure, eliminating duplicative corporate and operational support structures and realizing scale efficiencies. Highlights related to our financial condition at December 31, 2021 and results of operations for the year then ended include the following: Consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased to $8,523.8 million, compared to $7,423.6 million for the prior year. The increase in consolidated revenues is primarily due to an increase in transaction volumes from continued economic recovery as COVID-19 restrictions eased and acceleration in the use of digital payment solutions. Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased to $1,358.9 million, compared to $894.0 million for the prior year. Operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased to 15.9% compared to 12.0% for the prior year. The increase in consolidated operating income and operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2021 is primarily due to the increase in revenues and favorable effects of Merger-related cost synergies. We expanded our business through the execution of several strategic acquisitions. On June 10, 2021, we acquired Zego, a real estate technology company that provides a comprehensive resident experience management software and digital commerce solutions to property managers, primarily in the United States, for cash consideration of approximately $933 million. This acquisition aligns with our technology-enabled, software driven strategy and expands our business into a new vertical market. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other strategic business acquisitions for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $963 million. Our acquisition of MineralTree, a leading provider of accounts payable automation and B2B payments solutions, expands our target addressable market and provides incremental avenues for growth in one of the most attractive technology markets. Our acquisitions of the Bankia merchant services business and Worldline's PayOne Austrian acquiring business deepen our presence in Europe and expand the scale of our distribution and technologies. Our capital allocation priorities were supported by the successful issuance of new senior unsecured notes. On November 22, 2021, we issued $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes consisting of the following: (i) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.500% senior notes due November 2024; (ii) $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.150% senior notes due January 2027; and (iii) $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.900% senior notes due November 2031. We used the net proceeds from the offering to repay the outstanding indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes. On February 26, 2021, we issued $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of 1.200% senior unsecured notes due March 2026. We used the net proceeds from the offering to fund the redemption in full of the 3.800% senior unsecured notes due April 2021, to repay a portion of the outstanding indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes. 33 Table of Contents Emerging Trends The payments technology industry continues to grow worldwide and as a result, certain large payment technology companies, including us, have expanded operations globally by pursuing acquisitions and creating alliances and joint ventures. We expect to continue to expand into new markets internationally and increase our scale and improve our competitiveness in existing markets by pursuing additional acquisitions and joint ventures. The industry continues to grow as a result of wider merchant acceptance and increased use of credit and debit cards, advances in payment processing technology and migration to ecommerce, omnichannel and contactless payment solutions. The proliferation of credit and debit cards, as well as other digital payment solutions, has made the acceptance of digital payments a virtual necessity for many businesses, regardless of size, in order to remain competitive. Further, the expanding digitization of the economy and availability and access to financial services increases the demand for cards and digital payment solutions, which in turn drives growth in acceptance and transaction volumes. The use of digital payment solutions, the need for development of technologies and digital-based solutions and expansion of ecommerce, omnichannel and contactless payment solutions has accelerated, in part as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe that the number of digital payment transactions will continue to grow and that an increasing percentage of these will be facilitated through emerging technologies. As a result, we expect an increasing portion of our future capital investment will be allocated to support the development of new and emerging technologies, including technology modernization, innovation and integration through strategic partnerships. We also believe new markets will continue to develop and expand in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions. We expect industries such as education, government and healthcare, as well as recurring payments and B2B payments, to continue to see transactions migrate to digital-based solutions. We anticipate that the continued development of new services and technologies, the emergence of new vertical markets and continued expansion of technology-enabled ecommerce and omnichannel solutions, including expanded scale and market reach through new innovative cloud-based capabilities and strategic partnerships, will be a factor in the growth of our business and our revenue in the future. For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our continuing operating results, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. COVID-19 Update Since early 2020, the global economy has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic has caused and may continue to cause significant disruptions to businesses and markets worldwide through the continued spread of the virus, including through a resurgence of COVID-19 cases or emergence of new more contagious or vaccine-resistant virus variants in certain jurisdictions. Beginning in mid-March 2020, our financial results were affected by decreased spending and transaction volumes, as governments implemented measures in an effort to contain the virus, including lockdowns, physical distancing, travel restrictions, limitations on public gatherings, work from home and restrictions on nonessential businesses. We saw improvement in our financial results during the latter half of 2020 and in 2021, driven by an increase in spending and transaction volumes as a result of an ease in restrictions and distribution of economic stimulus provided by certain governments and continued vaccine distribution. While we continue to see signs of economic recovery, which has positively affected our financial results in 2021 compared to the prior year, the rate of recovery on a global basis has been and may continue to be affected by additional developments related to COVID-19. At the onset of the pandemic, we took early actions to preserve our available capital and provide financial flexibility in response to the effects of COVID-19 on our business, including the temporary reduction of certain operating expenses, employee compensation costs, other discretionary spending and planned capital expenditures, adding to the strength of our financial profile. Certain operating expenses, capital expenditures and other investments in the business have recently returned to more normalized levels. We expect to continue to make significant capital investments in the business while also continuing to manage other discretionary spending. We continue to closely monitor the COVID-19 pandemic; however, the implications on future global economic conditions and related effects on our business and financial condition are difficult to predict due to continuing uncertainties around the ultimate severity, scope and duration of the pandemic, vaccine administration rates and efficacy, resurgence of COVID-19 cases and emergence of new more contagious or vaccine-resistant virus variants and the direction or extent of current or future restrictive actions that may be imposed by governments or public health authorities. For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our future operating results related to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, see Item 1A Risk Factors. 34 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenues Merchant Solutions. The majority of our Merchant Solutions segment revenues is generated by services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type or industry vertical. We also earn software subscription and licensing fees, as well as other fees based on specific value-added services that may be unrelated to the number or value of transactions. These revenues depend upon a number of factors, such as demand for and price of our services, the technological competitiveness of our offerings, our reputation for providing timely and reliable service, competition within our industry and general economic conditions. We provide payment technology and software solutions to customers and fund settlement either directly, in markets where we have direct membership with the payment networks, or through our relationship with a member financial institution in markets where we are sponsored. Revenues are generally recognized in the amount of customer billing, net of interchange fees and payment network fees. We market our services through a variety of relationship-led and technology-enabled distribution channels, including a direct sales force, trade associations, agent and enterprise software providers and referral arrangements with value-added resellers ("VARs"). We also sell services to ISOs and financial institutions. In certain of these arrangements, the ISO receives a share of the customer profitability in the form of a monthly residual payment, which is reflected as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income. Issuer Solutions. Issuer Solutions segment revenues are derived from long-term processing contracts with financial institutions and other financial services providers. Payment processing services revenues are generated primarily from charges based on the number of accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, statements generated and/or mailed, managed services, cards embossed and mailed, and other processing services for cardholder accounts on file. Most of these contracts have prescribed annual minimums, penalties for early termination, and service level agreements that may affect contractual fees if specific service levels are not achieved. Issuer Solutions revenues also include loyalty redemption services and professional services. Business and Consumer Solutions. Business and Consumer Solutions segment revenues principally consist of fees collected from cardholders and fees generated by cardholder activity in connection with the programs that we manage. Customers are typically charged a fee for each purchase transaction made using their cards, unless the customer is on a monthly or annual service plan, in which case the customer is instead charged a monthly or annual subscription fee, as applicable. Customers are also charged a monthly maintenance fee after a specified period of inactivity. We also charge fees associated with additional services offered in connection with certain cards, including the use of overdraft features, a variety of bill payment options, card replacement, foreign exchange and card-to-card transfers of funds initiated through our call centers. Revenues are recognized net of fees charged by the payment networks for services they provide in processing transactions routed through them. Additionally, revenues include fees from B2B payment services and software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings that automate key procurement processes and enable virtual cards and integrated payments options. We have recently commenced a strategic evaluation of the consumer portion of this segment with the intent to focus on our growing B2B portfolio. Operating Expenses Cost of Service Cost of service consists primarily of salaries, wages and related expenses paid to operations and technology-related personnel, including those who monitor our transaction processing systems and settlement functions; the cost of transaction processing systems, including third-party services; the cost of network telecommunications capability; depreciation and occupancy costs associated with the facilities supporting these functions; amortization of intangible assets; amortization of costs to fulfill customer contracts; provisions for operating losses; and, when applicable, integration expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, wages, commissions and related expenses paid to sales personnel, customer support functions other than those supporting revenue, administrative employees and management; share-based compensation expense; amortization of costs to obtain customer contracts; residuals paid to ISOs; fees paid to VARs, independent contractors and other third parties; other selling expenses; occupancy costs of leased space directly related to these functions; advertising costs; and, when applicable, acquisition and integration expenses. 35 Table of Contents Operating Income and Operating Margin For the purpose of discussing segment operations, we refer to "operating income," which is calculated by subtracting segment direct expenses from segment revenues. Overhead and shared expenses, including share-based compensation, are not allocated to segment operations; they are reported in the caption "Corporate." Similarly, we refer to "operating margin" regarding segment operations, which is calculated by dividing segment operating income by segment revenues. Equity in Income of Equity Method Investments We have equity method investments, including a 45% interest in China UnionPay Data Co., Ltd., which we account for using the equity method of accounting. Equity in income of equity method investments reflects our proportional share of earnings from these investments. 36 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020 The following table sets forth key selected financial data for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, this data as a percentage of total revenues, and the changes between periods in dollars and as a percentage of the prior-period amount. The income statement data for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 are derived from the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in "