Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a detailed explanation of our operating results. Acquisition of PayPros On March 4, 2014 , we completed the acquisition of PayPros for $420.0 million in cash plus $7.7 million in cash for working capital, subject to adjustment based on a final determination of working capital. We funded the acquisition with a combination of cash on hand and proceeds from our new debt facilities discussed above. PayPros, based in California, is a provider of fully-integrated payment solutions for small-to-medium sized merchants in the United States. PayPros delivers its products and services through a network of technology-based enterprise software partners to vertical markets that are complementary to the markets served by Accelerated Payment Technologies ("APT"), which we acquired on October 1, 2012. See Note 4 - Business and Intangible Asset Acquisitions and Joint Ventures in the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Business Description Global Payments is one of the largest worldwide providers of payment solutions for merchants, value-added resellers, enterprise software providers, financial institutions, government agencies, multi-national corporations and independent sales organizations ("ISOs") located throughout North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region and in Brazil. We provide payment and digital commerce solutions and operate in two business segments, North America merchant services and International merchant services. We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in September 2000, and we spun-off from our former parent company on January 31, 2001. Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payments business since 1967. 4 Table of Contents Our North America merchant services and International merchant services segments target customers in many vertical industries including financial institutions, gaming, government, health care, professional services, restaurants, retail, universities, nonprofit organizations and utilities. See Note 14 - Segment Information in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional segment information and Item 1A - Risk Factors for a discussion of risks involved with our operations. Merchant Services Overview Our merchant acquiring services are similar around the world in that we enable our merchant customers to accept check, card, electronic and digital-based payments at the point of sale. Our primary business model provides payment products and services directly to merchants as our end customers. We also provide similar products and services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs that, in turn, resell our products and services, in which case the financial institutions and select ISOs are our end customers. The term merchant generally refers to any organization that accepts credit or debit cards for the payment of goods and services. We sell our services through multiple sales channels around the world and target customers in many vertical industries. Card-based payment forms consist of credit, debit, gift, stored value and electronic benefits transfer cards. Credit and debit card transaction processing includes the processing of the world's major international card brands, including American Express, China UnionPay ("CUP"), Discover Card (Discover), JCB, MasterCard, Visa and non-traditional payment methods, as well as certain domestic debit networks, such as Interac in Canada. Electronic and digital-based payment processing involves a consumer or cardholder acquiring goods or services from a merchant and using a credit or debit card or other electronic or digital method as the form of payment. Our comprehensive offerings include terminal sales and deployment, authorization processing, settlement and funding processing, full customer support and help desk functions, chargeback resolution, industry compliance, Payment Card Industry ("PCI") security, consolidated billing and statements and on-line reporting. Our value proposition is to provide high quality, responsive, secure and full end-to-end service to all of our customers. Currently, we focus on merchant customers in the United States, Canada, Brazil, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Czech Republic, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region. The majority of merchant services revenue is generated on services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type. We also charge other fees based on specific services that are unrelated to the number or value of transactions. Credit and Debit Card Transaction Processing Credit and debit networks establish uniform regulations that govern much of the payment card industry. During a typical payment transaction, the merchant and the card issuer do not interface directly with each other, but instead rely on merchant acquirers like Global Payments to facilitate transaction processing. We perform a series of services including authorization, electronic draft capture, file transfers to facilitate funds settlement and certain exception-based, back office support services such as chargeback and retrieval resolution. We process funds settlement under two models, a sponsorship model and a direct membership model. Under the sponsorship model, we are designated as a Merchant Service Provider by MasterCard and an ISO by Visa. To be designated as a certified processor, member clearing banks ("Member") sponsor us and require our adherence to the standards of the networks. In certain markets, we have sponsorship or depository and clearing agreements with financial institution sponsors. These agreements allow us to route transactions under the Members' control and identification numbers to clear credit card transactions through MasterCard and Visa. In this model, the standards of the card networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing merchant settlement funds, and, instead, require that these funds be in the possession of the Member until the merchant is funded. Under the direct membership model, we are direct members in various payment networks, allowing us to process and fund transactions without third-party sponsorship. In this model, we route and clear transactions directly through the card brands network and are not restricted from performing funds settlement. Otherwise, we process these transactions similarly to how we process transactions in the sponsorship model. We are required to adhere to the standards of the various networks in which we are direct members. We maintain relationships with financial institutions, which may also serve as our Member sponsors for other card brands or in other markets, to assist with funds settlement. In fiscal 2014, we increased the number of markets in which we are Members in certain of the payment networks, and we intend to continue to pursue membership in additional markets in the future. 5 Table of Contents How a Card Transaction Works A typical payment transaction begins when a cardholder presents a card for payment at a merchant location where the card information is captured by a point of sale ("POS") terminal card reader or mobile device card reader, which may be sold, leased, or rented, and serviced by Global Payments. Alternatively, card and transaction information may be captured and transmitted to our network through a POS device by one of a number of products that we offer directly or through a value added reseller (VAR). The terminal electronically records sales draft information, such as the card identification number, transaction date and value of the goods or services purchased. After the card and transaction information is captured by the POS device, the terminal automatically connects to our network through the internet or other communication channels in order to receive authorization of the transaction. For a credit card transaction, authorization services generally refer to the process in which the card issuer indicates whether a particular credit card is authentic and whether the impending transaction value will cause the cardholder to exceed defined credit limits. In a debit card transaction, the Company obtains authorization for the transaction from the card issuer through the payment network verifying that the cardholder has sufficient funds for the transaction. As an illustration, shown below, on a $100.00 credit card transaction, the card issuer may fund the Member (indirectly through the card network) $98.50 after retaining approximately $1.50 referred to as an interchange fee or interchange expense. The card issuer seeks reimbursement of $100.00 from the cardholder in the cardholder's monthly credit card bill. The Member would, in turn, pay the merchant $100.00. The net settlement after this transaction would require Global Payments to advance the Member $1.50. After the end of the month, we would bill the merchant a percentage of the transaction, or discount, to cover the full amount of the interchange fee and our net revenue from the transaction. If our discount rate for the merchant in the above example was 2.00%, we would bill the merchant $2.00 at the end of the month for the transaction, reimburse ourselves for approximately $1.50 in interchange fees and retain $0.50 or 0.50% as our net revenue for the transaction. Discount rates vary based on negotiations with merchants and the economic characteristics of transactions. Interchange rates also vary based on the economic characteristics of individual transactions. Accordingly, our net revenue per transaction varies across our merchant base and is subject to change based on changes in discount rates and interchange rates. Our profit on the transaction reflects the net revenue less operating expenses, including assessments and other network fees, systems cost to process the transaction and commissions paid to our sales force or ISO. Assessments are fees charged by Visa and MasterCard based on the dollar value of transactions processed through their networks. 6 Table of Contents Business Segments North America Merchant Services Segment North America merchant services revenues represent 70.8% of our total consolidated fiscal 2014 revenues and include operations in the United States and Canada. In the United States, we sell our services via a direct sales force utilizing referral partners of agent banks and trade associations, integrated payment technology, agent and enterprise software providers and VAR referral arrangements, ISOs, as well as proprietary telesales groups. Direct Sales. Our direct sales channel receives qualified leads from agent banks and trade association referral partners for a variety of mid-sized to large merchants with annual bankcard volume averaging above $300,000. Our merchant portfolio is also expanded through targeted campaigns and other lead-generating efforts by our direct sales force. Our referral partners are paid referral fees. Integrated Payment Solutions. Our integrated payment solutions channel, which includes APT and PayPros, sells integrated payment technologies to more than 60 vertical markets, gaining market share by signing new enterprise solution providers and new merchants within existing enterprise solution providers already supported by the Company. Independent Sales Organizations. Our ISO channel targets a variety of merchant types with typical annual bankcard volumes of $150,000 or less. ISOs contract with Global Payments to provide processing and other services depending on the ISOs' requirements. These contracts are multi-year and priced by service on a per transaction basis. The ISOs act as a third-party sales group selling Global Payments-branded merchant acquiring products and services, with the majority of Global Payments' ISOs marketing direct merchant acquiring. Because Global Payments is a primary party to the merchant contract as a result of our bank sponsor relationship or card network membership, the full amount of fees collected from the merchant, net of interchange fees, is recorded as revenue. The excess of revenue earned over our cost to process the transaction plus the ISO contractual transaction fee is remitted to the ISO in the form of a residual payment on a monthly basis and is recorded in sales, general and administrative expenses. Gaming and Check Services. Our U.S. revenue also includes gaming and check services. As part of our direct merchant service offering, we offer a comprehensive suite of cash access solutions to the gaming vertical market. These solutions include both traditional and electronic check cashing, credit and debit card cash advance and other services specific this market. Our VIP LightSpeed proprietary software platform allows customers of casinos in U.S. and Canada fast access to cash with high limits so that gaming establishments can increase the flow of money to their gaming floors and reduce risk. We derive revenue from our gaming products primarily based on a percentage of the transaction value. We also offer our merchant customers check verification and guarantee service. The majority of check services involve providing check guarantee services for checks received by merchants. Under the guarantee service, when a merchant receives a check in payment for goods and services, the transaction is submitted and analyzed by the Company. The Company either approves or declines the check for warranty coverage under its guarantee service. If the Company approves the check for warranty coverage and the merchant accepts the check, the merchant will either deposit the check in its bank account or, as in the majority of instances, process it for settlement through the Company's electronic check acceptance service. When an approved check or electronic debit is returned unpaid by the merchant's bank, the Company pays the merchant the face value of the check and, as the assignee of the check, the Company pursues collection of the amount of the check from the checkwriter. As a result, the Company bears the risk of loss if the Company is unable to collect the returned check from the checkwriter. We earn a fee for each guaranteed check, which generally is determined as a percentage of the check amount. Indirect Merchant Services. In the indirect merchant services channel, we provide merchant services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs that, in turn, resell our products and services. International Merchant Services Segment International merchant services revenues represent 29.2% of our total consolidated fiscal 2014 revenues and are derived from operations in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Our business in Europe is primarily located in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation. Our Asia-Pacific region includes the following eleven countries and territories: Brunei, China, Hong Kong, India, Macau, Malaysia, Maldives, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Taiwan. We have a direct sales force in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region through which we primarily sell our direct merchant acquiring services while leveraging our bank referral relationships. In the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation, we also provide indirect merchant acquiring services. 7 Table of Contents See Note 14 - Segment Information in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for information about each segment's operating income and assets. Total revenues from our segments, by region, are as follows (in thousands): Year Ended May 31, 2014 2013 2012 Revenues: United States $ 1,488,659 $ 1,394,675 $ 1,234,818 Canada 320,333 311,000 332,434 North America merchant services 1,808,992 1,705,675 1,567,252 Europe 587,463 522,593 489,300 Asia-Pacific 157,781 147,655 147,295 International merchant services 745,244 670,248 636,595 Consolidated revenues $ 2,554,236 $ 2,375,923 $ 2,203,847 Our foreign operations subject us to various risks, including, without limitation, currency exchange risks and political, economic and regulatory risks. See Item 1A - Risk Factors for additional information about these risks. Industry Overview Competition We are a leading mid-market and small-market merchant acquirer in the United States, where we compete primarily with Bank of America Merchant Services, Chase Paymentech, Elavon, First Data Corporation, Heartland Payment Systems, Vantiv, and Wells Fargo. We have significant market share in Canada, where we compete primarily with Chase Paymentech Solutions, Moneris Solutions, and TD Merchant Services. Moneris Solutions is a joint venture between the Bank of Montreal and the Royal Bank of Canada. In the Europe and the Asia-Pacific regions, financial institutions remain the primary providers of payment processing services to merchants, although the outsourcing of merchant processing services to third-party service providers is becoming more prevalent. Processing services have become increasingly complex, requiring significant capital commitments to develop, maintain and update the systems necessary to provide these advanced services at a competitive price. In the United Kingdom, we believe we hold the number three market position compared to our primary competitors Barclays and WorldPay. In Spain, where we hold the number one market share position, our primary competitors are Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A., Banco Popular, Caja Madrid, and Santander. We believe we hold the number one market share position among nonbank processors in the Russian Federation, which is a highly fragmented payments market. Our competitors include various financial institutions, such as Raiffeisen Bank, Russian Standard Bank, Sberbank, and VTB. In the Czech Republic, our primary competitors are Euronet, First Data Corporation, and SiNSYS. In the Asia-Pacific region, our primary competitors include financial institutions that offer merchant acquiring services in each of our eleven markets. Emerging Trends As a result of continued growth in our industry, several large merchant acquirers, including us, have expanded operations both domestically and internationally in the form of acquisitions and the creation of alliances and joint ventures. We believe that the electronic payment transaction processing industry will continue to consolidate as banks and independent processors that lack the necessary infrastructure may look to exit the business. We believe that electronic and digital-based payment transactions will continue to grow in the future and that an increasing percentage of these transactions will be processed through emerging technologies. To help reduce transaction costs and accelerate the transaction approval process, we have integrated new technologies into our service offerings, such as internet protocol communications and check truncation or conversion at the point of sale. In order to support and integrate payments into our merchants' various business solutions utilized through VARs, we created a developer portal simplifying the payment enablement 8 Table of Contents process with multiple VARs. We are also able to offer our customers integrated e-commerce solutions. Through our VAR relationships, we have several products that support radio frequency identification for contactless payment cards as well as near field communication enabled smartphones that contain mobile wallet software, which position us to participate in mobile payments. We also offer customers the ability to accept payments utilizing a mobile device as a point of sale terminal. As mobile payments continue to evolve and are desired by merchants and consumers, we intend to continue partnering and developing new products and services that will leverage the benefits that these new technologies can offer our customers. We also believe that new markets will continue to develop in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions. We expect industries such as e-commerce, healthcare, education, government, recurring payments and business-to-business to continue to see transaction volumes migrate to more electronic-based settlement solutions. We believe that the continued development of new products and services and the emergence of new vertical markets will be a factor in the growth of our business for the foreseeable future. Strategy We seek to leverage the adoption of, and transition to, card, electronic and digital-based payments by expanding market share in our existing markets through our distribution channels and through acquisitions while also seeking to enter new markets through acquisitions around the world. We intend to continue to invest in and leverage our technology infrastructure and our people to increase our penetration in existing markets. Our objectives include the following: Grow and control our direct distribution by adding new merchants and partners; Deliver innovative products and services by developing value-added applications, enhancing existing products and developing new systems and services to blend technology with customer needs; Leverage technology and operational advantages throughout our global footprint; Continue to develop seamless multinational solutions for leading global customers; Provide customer service at levels that exceed our competition, while investing in technology, training and product enhancements; and Pursue potential domestic and international acquisitions of, investments in, and alliances with companies that have high growth potential or significant market presence. Safeguarding Our Business Privacy and security are central to our service. We work with information security and forensics firms and employ advanced technologies to investigate and address issues related to processing system security. We also work with industry third parties, regulators and law enforcement to resolve security incidents and assist in efforts to prevent unauthorized access to our processing system. In early March 2012, we identified and self-reported unauthorized access into a limited portion of our North America card processing system and potential unauthorized access to servers containing personal information collected from U.S. merchants who applied for processing services. As a result of this event, certain card networks temporarily removed us from their lists of Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS) compliant service providers. After remediating our processes and systems, we returned to the lists of PCI DSS compliant service providers in the third quarter of fiscal 2013, and we have received reports on compliance covering all of our systems. We did not experience any material loss of revenue that we can confirm was related to this event. However, any future intrusion could potentially have a negative impact on future revenues. See Note 2 - Processing System Intrusion in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional processing system intrusion information. Employees As of May 31, 2014 , we had 4,135 employees. Many of our employees are highly skilled in technical areas specific to electronic transaction payment processing. We believe that our current and future operations depend substantially on retaining our key employees. 9 Table of Contents Regulation Various aspects of our business are subject to regulation and supervision under federal, state and local laws in the United States, as well as foreign laws and regulations. In addition, we are subject to rules promulgated by the various payment networks, including Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, CUP and Interac; the Payment Services Directive in Europe; as well as a variety of other regulations, including escheat laws and applicable privacy and information security regulations. Because we provide data processing services to banks and other financial institutions, we are subject to examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (the "FFIEC"). Set forth below is a brief summary of some of the significant laws and regulations that apply to us. These descriptions are not exhaustive and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provision. The Dodd-Frank Act In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Dodd-Frank Act), which resulted in significant structural and other changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act directed the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the Federal Reserve Board) to regulate the debit interchange transaction fees that a card issuer or payment card network receives or charges for an electronic debit transaction. Pursuant to Section 1075 of the Dodd-Frank Act (commonly referred to as the Durbin Amendment), these fees must be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the card issuer in authorizing, clearing and settling the transaction. Effective in October 2011, pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board, debit interchange rates for card issuers with assets of $10 billion or more are capped at $0.21 per transaction and an ad valorem component of 5 basis points to reflect a portion of the issuer's fraud losses plus, for qualifying issuers, an additional $0.01 per transaction in debit interchange for fraud prevention costs. The cap on interchange fees has not had a material direct impact on the Companys results of operations. In addition, the rules contain prohibitions on network exclusivity and merchant routing restrictions that require a card issuer to enable at least two unaffiliated networks on each debit card, prohibit card networks from entering into exclusivity arrangements, and restrict the ability of issuers or networks to mandate transaction routing requirements. The prohibition on network exclusivity arrangements took effect in October 2011 for payment card networks and in April 2012 for most debit card issuers. The prohibition on network exclusivity arrangements was effective for certain health and benefit cards and general-use prepaid cards in April 2013. We do not expect the prohibition on network exclusivity to significantly impact our ability to pass on network fees and other costs to our customers. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the FSOC), which was established to, among other things, identify risks to the stability of the U.S. financial system. The FSOC has the authority to require supervision and regulation of nonbank financial companies that the FSOC determines pose a systemic risk to the U.S. financial system. At this point, it is unclear whether the Company would be subject to additional systemic risk-related oversight. Payment Network Rules We are subject to the rules of MasterCard, Visa, Discover, CUP, Interac and other payment networks. In order to provide our transaction processing services, several of our subsidiaries are registered with MasterCard and Visa as service providers for member institutions and with other networks. Accordingly, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions. Banking Laws and Regulations The FFIEC is an interagency body comprised of the federal bank and credit union regulators (i.e. the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection). The FFIEC examines large data processors in order to identify and mitigate risks associated with systemically significant service providers, including specifically the risks they may pose to the banking industry. In addition, we are subject to Directive 2007/64/EC in the European Union (the Payment Services Directive), which was implemented in most European Union member states through national legislation. As a result of this legislation, we are subject to regulation and oversight in certain European Union member nations, including the requirement that we maintain specified regulatory capital; however, these regulatory capital requirements are generally insignificant to our total assets and total equity and have no material effect on our liquidity. 10 Table of Contents Privacy and Information Security Laws We provide services that may be subject to various state, federal and foreign privacy laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which applies to a broad range of financial institutions and to companies that provide services to financial institutions, including the check and gaming portion of our business. We are also subject to a variety of foreign data protection and privacy laws, including, without limitation, Directive 95/46/EC, as implemented in each member state of the European Union. Among other things, these foreign and domestic laws, and their implementing regulations, restrict the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent use and disclosure of protected information. These laws also impose requirements for safeguarding and removal or elimination of personal information. Certain state laws also restrict our ability to collect and utilize certain types of information such as Social Security and driver's license numbers. Anti-money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Requirements Certain portions of our business are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (collectively, the BSA). The BSA, among other things, requires money services businesses to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity and maintain transaction records. Regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the U.S. Department of Treasury place prohibitions and restrictions on all U.S. citizens and entities, including the Company, with respect to transactions by U.S. persons with specified countries and individuals and entities identified on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals list (for example, individuals and companies owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, countries subject to certain economic and trade sanctions, as well as terrorists, terrorist organizations and narcotics traffickers identified by OFAC under programs that are not country specific). Similar requirements apply to transactions and dealings with persons and entities specified in lists maintained in other countries. We have developed procedures and controls that are designed to monitor and address legal and regulatory requirements and developments and that allow our customers to protect against having direct business dealings with such prohibited countries, individuals or entities. Debt Collection Laws The check and gaming portion of our business is subject to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and similar state laws in connection with our check guarantee and recovery services, which guarantee the payment of checks or collection of returned checks on behalf of certain merchants. These laws are designed to eliminate abusive, deceptive and unfair debt collection practices and require licensing at the state level. We have procedures in place to comply with the requirements of these laws and are licensed in a number of states in order to engage in collection in those states. Escheat Laws We are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property laws in the United States and in foreign countries that require us to transfer to certain government authorities the unclaimed property of others that we hold when that property has been unclaimed for a certain period of time. Moreover, we are subject to audit by state regulatory authorities with regard to our escheatment practices. Foreign Laws and Regulations We are subject to foreign laws and regulations that affect the electronic payments industry in each of the foreign countries in which we operate. Some of these countries, such as the Russian Federation and Spain, have undergone significant political, economic and social change in recent years. In these countries, there is a greater risk of new, unforeseen changes that could result from, among other things, instability or changes in a countrys or regions economic conditions; changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise; increased difficulty of conducting business in a country or region due to actual or potential political or military conflict; or action by the European Union or the United States, Canada or other governments that may restrict our ability to transact business in a foreign country or with certain foreign individuals or entities, such as sanctions by or against the Russian Federation. Where to Find More Information We file annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may read and print materials that we have filed with the SEC from its website at www.sec.gov . In addition, certain of our SEC filings, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to them can be viewed and printed from the investor information section of our 11 Table of Contents website at www.globalpaymentsinc.com free of charge. Certain materials relating to our corporate governance, including our codes of ethics applicable to our directors, senior financial officers and other employees, are also available in the investor information section of our website. Copies of our filings, specified exhibits and corporate governance materials are also available, free of charge, by writing us using the address on the cover of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also telephone our investor relations office directly at (770) 829-8234. We are not including the information on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this report. Our SEC filings may also be viewed and copied at the following SEC public reference room and at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, where our common stock is quoted under the symbol GPN. SEC Public Reference Room 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, DC 20549 (You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.) NYSE Euronext 20 Broad Street New York, NY 10005 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A- RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other SEC filings before you decide whether to buy our common stock. The risks identified below are not all encompassing but should be considered in establishing an opinion of our future operations. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Inability to safeguard our data from continually evolving cybersecurity risks or other technological risks could affect our reputation among our merchant clients and cardholders and may expose us to penalties, fines, liabilities and legal claims. Under the card network rules and various national and state laws, we are responsible for information provided to us by merchants, ISOs, third-party service providers and other agents (all of which we refer to as associated third parties), which we require in order to approve merchant accounts, process transactions and for the purpose of fraud prevention. This information includes confidential data such as: bankcard numbers, names, addresses, Social Security numbers, driver's license numbers and bank account numbers. We process the data and deliver our products and services by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks which are operated both by us and by third-party service providers. We have the ultimate liability to the card networks and their member financial institutions for our failure or the failure of our associated third parties to protect this information. While plans and procedures are in place to protect this sensitive data, we cannot be certain that these measures will be successful and will be sufficient to counter all current and emerging technology threats which are designed to breach our systems in order to gain access to confidential information. Our computer systems have been, and could be in the future, subject to penetration, and our data protection measures may not prevent unauthorized access. Threats to our systems and our associated third parties systems can derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Computer viruses can be distributed and could infiltrate our systems or those of our associated third parties. In addition, denial of service or other attacks could be launched against us for a variety of purposes, including to interfere with our services or create a diversion for other malicious activities. Our defensive measures may not prevent unauthorized access or use of sensitive data. While we maintain first- and third-party insurance coverage that may cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. We could also be subject to liability for claims relating to misuse of personal information, such as unauthorized marketing purposes and violation of data privacy laws. We generally require that our agreements with service providers who have access to merchant and customer data include confidentiality obligations but we cannot be certain that these contractual requirements are always followed or that they will always prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of data. In addition, we have agreed in certain agreements to take certain protective measures to ensure the confidentiality of merchant and consumer data. The costs of systems and procedures associated with such protective measures may increase and could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Any failure to adequately enforce or provide these protective measures could result in liability, protracted and costly litigation and, with respect to misuse of personal information of our merchants and consumers, lost revenue and reputational harm. Any type of security breach or other misuse of data described above or otherwise could harm our reputation and deter existing and prospective customers from using our products and services or from making electronic payments generally, increase our operating expenses in order to contain and remediate the breach, expose us to unbudgeted or uninsured liability, disrupt our operations (including potential service interruptions), distract our management, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, result in the imposition of penalties and fines under state, federal and foreign laws or by the card networks, and adversely affect our continued card network registration and financial institution sponsorship. Our removal from networks' lists of PCI DSS compliant service providers could mean that existing merchant customers, sales partners or other third parties may cease using or referring our products and services. Also, prospective merchant customers, sales partners or other third parties may choose to terminate negotiations with us, or delay or choose not to consider us for their processing needs. In addition, the card networks could refuse to allow us to process through their networks. For example, in March 2012 , we identified and self-reported unauthorized access into a limited portion of our North America card processing system and potential unauthorized access to servers containing personal information collected from U.S. merchants who applied for processing services. As a result of this event, certain card networks temporarily removed us from their lists of 13 Table of Contents PCI DSS compliant service providers. After remediating our processes and systems, we returned to the lists of PCI DSS compliant service providers in the third quarter of fiscal 2013 . We incurred approximately $114.2 million of cumulative expenses, net of insurance recoveries, relating to the incident. The impact on revenue of terminations that we can confirm related to our temporary removal from the lists was immaterial. Also, the impact on revenue of merchants, sales partners or other third parties who have failed to renew, terminated negotiations or informed us they are not considering us at all, where we can confirm it is due to our removal from the lists, was immaterial. This event has resulted in inquiries from governmental entities and investigation by the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"). The payment processing industry is highly competitive, and some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources than we do, which may give them an advantage in our market with respect to the pricing of products and services offered to our customers and the ability to develop new technologies. We operate in the electronic payments market, which is highly competitive. In this market, our primary competitors include other independent payment processors, as well as financial institutions, ISOs and, potentially, card networks. Many of our competitors are companies that are larger than we are, with greater financial and operational resources than we have. Our competitors that are financial institutions or subsidiaries of financial institutions do not incur the costs associated with being sponsored by a direct member for participation in the card networks and may be able to settle transactions more quickly for merchants than we can. These financial institutions may also provide payment processing services to merchants at a loss in order to generate banking fees from the merchants. It is also possible that larger financial institutions could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. These attributes may provide them with a competitive advantage in the market. Higher than expected attrition could negatively affect our results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we are facing increasing competition from non-traditional competitors who offer certain innovations in payment methods. Some of these competitors utilize proprietary software and service solutions. Others partner with traditional merchant acquirers to provide tablet-based solutions with payment processing services. Some of these non-traditional competitors have significant financial resources and robust networks and are highly regarded by consumers. In addition, some non-traditional competitors, such as private companies or startup companies, may be less risk averse than we are and, therefore, may be able to respond more quickly to market demands. If these non-traditional competitors gain a greater share of total electronic payments transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These competitors may compete in ways that minimize or remove the role of traditional card networks, processors and/or point-of-sale software in the electronic payments process. In order to remain competitive and to continue to increase our revenues and earnings, we must continually and quickly update our products and services, a process which could result in increased costs and the loss of revenues, earnings and customers if the new products and services do not perform as intended or are not accepted in the marketplace. The electronic payments markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. In order to remain competitive, we are continually involved in a number of projects, including the development of a new authorization platform, mobile payment applications, e-commerce services and other new offerings emerging in the electronic payments industry. These projects carry the risks associated with any development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance problems. In the electronic payments markets, these risks are even more acute. Any delay in the delivery of new products or services or the failure to differentiate our products and services could render them less desirable to our customers, or possibly even obsolete. Furthermore, as the market for alternative payment processing products and services evolves, it may develop too rapidly or not rapidly enough for us to recover the costs we have incurred in developing new products and services targeted at this market. In addition, the products and services we deliver to the electronic payments markets are designed to process very complex transactions and deliver reports and other information on those transactions, all at very high volumes and processing speeds. Any failure to deliver an effective and secure product or any performance issue that arises with a new product or service could result in significant processing or reporting errors or other losses. As a result of these factors, our development efforts could result in increased costs that could reduce our earnings in addition to a loss of revenue and earnings if promised new products are not timely delivered to our customers or do not perform as anticipated. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry st andards, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. For example, EMV is a credit and debit card authentication methodology using integrated circuit cards (or chip cards) that Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover mandated that U.S. processors be able to support as of April 2013 and that 14 Table of Contents merchants be able to support by October 2015. We have invested, and may continue to invest, significant resources to develop and implement support for EMV before the applicable deadlines. We are not certain if or when our merchants will use or accept the methodology, or if and when issuers will provide EMV cards to consumers in significant volumes. Our revenues from the sale of services to merchants that accept Visa cards and MasterCard cards are dependent upon our continued Visa and MasterCard registration and financial institution sponsorship and, in some cases, continued membership in certain card networks. In order to provide our Visa and MasterCard transaction processing services, we must be either a direct participant or be registered as a merchant processor or service provider of Visa and MasterCard. Registration as a merchant processor or service provider is dependent upon our being sponsored by Members of both organizations. If our sponsor banks should stop providing sponsorship for us, we would need to find another financial institution to provide those services or we would need to attain direct membership with the card networks, either of which could prove to be difficult and expensive. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution to provide sponsorship or attain direct membership, we may no longer be able to provide processing services to affected customers, which would negatively impact our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, some agreements with our bank sponsors give them substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants and the terms of our agreements with merchants. Our bank sponsors' discretionary actions under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with direct membership, the rules and regulations of various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would limit our use of capital for other purposes. We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If we are unable to maintain clearing services with these financial institutions and are unable to find a replacement, our business may be adversely affected. We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If such financial institutions should stop providing clearing services, we must find other financial institutions to provide those services. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution we may no longer be able to provide processing services to certain customers, which could negatively impact our revenue and earnings. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations. If our merchants or ISOs incur fines or penalties that we cannot collect from them, we could end up bearing the cost of such fines or penalties. We are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions. The rules of the card networks are set by their boards, which may be influenced by card issuers, and some of those issuers are our competitors with respect to these processing services. Many banks directly or indirectly sell processing services to merchants in direct competition with us. These banks could attempt, by virtue of their influence on the networks, to alter the networks' rules or policies to the detriment of non-members like us. The termination of our registrations or our status as a service provider or a merchant processor, or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If a merchant or an ISO fails to comply with the applicable requirements of the card associations and networks, it could be subject to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks. If we cannot collect such amounts from the applicable merchant or ISO, we could end up bearing such fines or penalties, resulting in lower earnings for us. The termination of our registration, or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair our registration, could require us to stop providing Visa and MasterCard payment processing services, which would make it impossible for us to conduct our business on its current scale . Our systems and our third-party providers' systems may fail, which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business, increase our costs and expose us to liability. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer systems, software, data centers and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems and services of third parties. In addition, we have undertaken the relocation of our primary data center. We have entered into agreements related to this relocation and for the ongoing management of the data center. A system outage or data loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Not only would we suffer damage to our reputation in the event of a system outage or data loss, but we may also be liable to third 15 Table of Contents parties. Our systems and operations or those of our third-party providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist acts, war, unauthorized entry, human error, and computer viruses or other defects. Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions, telecommunications failures, or other difficulties (including those related to system relocation) could result in loss of revenue, loss of customers, loss of merchant and cardholder data, harm to our business or reputation, exposure to fraud losses or other liabilities, negative publicity, additional operating and development costs, fines and other sanctions imposed by card networks, and/or diversion of technical and other resources. We may experience software defects, undetected errors, and development delays, which could damage customer relations, decrease our potential profitability and expose us to liability. Our products are based on sophisticated software and computing systems that often encounter development delays and the underlying software may contain undetected errors, viruses or defects. Defects in our software products and errors or delays in our processing of electronic transactions could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, loss of credibility with current or potential customers, harm to our reputation and exposure to liability claims. In addition, we rely on technologies and software supplied by third parties that may also contain undetected errors, viruses or defects that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased merchant, referral partner or ISO attrition could cause our financial results to decline. We experience attrition in merchant credit and debit card processing volume resulting from several factors, including business closures, transfers of merchants' accounts to our competitors, unsuccessful contract renewal negotiation and account closures that we initiate for various reasons, such as heightened credit risks or contract breaches by merchants. If an ISO partner switches to another transaction processor, terminates our services, internalizes payment processing functions that we perform, merges with or is acquired by one of our competitors, or shuts down or becomes insolvent, we may no longer receive new merchant referrals from the ISO, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the ISO. We cannot predict the level of attrition in the future and it could increase. Our referral partners are a significant source of new business. Higher than expected attrition could negatively affect our results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order for us to continue to grow and increase our profitability, we must continue to expand our share of the existing electronic payments markets and also expand into new markets. Our future growth and profitability depend upon our continued expansion within the markets in which we currently operate, the further expansion of these markets, the emergence of other markets for electronic transaction payment processing and our ability to penetrate these markets. As part of our strategy to achieve this expansion, we look for acquisition opportunities, investments and alliance relationships with other businesses that will allow us to increase our market penetration, technological capabilities, product offerings and distribution capabilities. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition, investment and alliance candidates in the future, and if we do, they may not provide us with the value and benefits we anticipate. Our expansion into new markets is also dependent upon our ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure products and distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these new markets. If we fail to expand into new and existing electronic payments markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings. There may be a decline in the use of cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the card industry in general. If consumers do not continue to use credit or debit cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards, and debit cards, which is adverse to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Consumer credit risk may make it more difficult or expensive for consumers to gain access to credit facilities such as credit cards. Regulatory changes may result in financial institutions seeking to charge their customers additional fees for use of credit or debit cards. Such fees may result in decreased use of credit or debit cards by cardholders. In each case, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We believe future growth in the use of credit and debit cards and other electronic payments will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain our 16 Table of Contents profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use electronic payment methods that we process, including credit and debit cards. We incur chargeback liability when our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers. We cannot accurately anticipate these liabilities, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the event a dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally charged back to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If we are unable to collect such amounts from the merchant's account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse us for a chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with those merchants that promise future delivery of goods and services rather than delivering goods or rendering services at the time of payment. We may experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have policies to manage merchant-related credit risk and often mitigate such risk by requiring collateral and monitoring transaction activity. Notwithstanding our programs and policies for managing credit risk, it is possible that a default on such obligations by one or more of our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business. Fraud by merchants or others could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have potential liability for fraudulent electronic payment transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit credit or debit card, card number, or other credentials to record a false sales or credit transaction, processes an invalid card, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and fraud. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase our chargeback liability or cause us to incur other liabilities. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Increases in chargebacks or other liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to economic and political risk, the business cycles and credit risk of our customers and the overall level of consumer, business and government spending, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global electronic payments industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. A sustained deterioration in general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate or increases in interest rates may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions made using electronic payments. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in our revenue and profits. If our merchants make fewer sales of their products and services using electronic payments or people spend less money per transaction, we will have fewer transactions to process at lower dollar amounts, resulting in lower revenue. A downturn in the economy could force retailers to close, resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and future transaction declines. Furthermore, credit card issuers may reduce credit limits and be more selective with respect to whom they issue credit cards. We also have a certain amount of fixed and other costs, including rent, debt service, and salaries, which could limit our ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in our business and the economy. Changes in economic conditions could also adversely impact our future revenues and profits and cause a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a recessionary economic environment could affect our merchants through a higher rate of bankruptcy filings, resulting in lower revenues and earnings for us. Our merchants are liable for any charges properly reversed by the card issuer on behalf of the cardholder. Our associated third parties are also liable for any fines or penalties that may be assessed by any card networks. In the event that we are not able to collect such amounts from our merchants or the associated third parties, due to fraud, breach of contract, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for any such charges. Reject losses arise from the fact that, in most markets, we collect our fees from our merchants on the first day after the monthly billing period. This results in the build-up of a substantial receivable from our customers. If a merchant has gone out of business during the billing period, we may be unable to collect such fees, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Increases in credit card network fees may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in our earnings. From time-to-time, the card networks, including Visa and MasterCard, increase the fees that they charge processors. We could attempt to pass these increases along to our merchant customers, but this strategy might result in the loss of customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases. If competitive practices prevent us from passing along such increased fees to our merchant customers in the future, we may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases, thereby reducing our net revenues, increasing our operating costs and reducing our earnings. Any new implementation of or changes made to laws, regulations, card network rules or other industry standards affecting our business in any of the geographic regions in which we operate may require significant development efforts or have an unfavorable impact to our financial results. Our business is impacted by laws and regulations that affect our industry in the countries in which we operate. Regulation and proposed regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with regulations or guidelines may result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines, or may cause customers or potential customers to be reluctant to do business with us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. For example, we are subject to the card network rules of Visa, MasterCard and other card networks, Interac, and various debit networks; applicable privacy and information security regulations in the regions where we operate and of the card networks; the Payment Services Directive in Europe; The Code of Conduct for the Credit and Debit Card Industry in Canada (issued by Canada's Department of Finance); Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 in the United States, which requires information returns to be made for each calendar year by merchant acquiring entities, along with a myriad of consumer protection laws and escheat regulations. We are also subject to examination by the FFIEC as a result of our provision of data processing services to financial institutions. Interchange fees (which are typically paid by the acquirer to the issuer in connection with transactions) are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Dodd-Frank Act), which was signed into law in July 2010, significantly changed the U.S. financial regulatory system. Changes affecting the payment processing industry include restricting amounts of debit card fees that certain issuing institutions can charge merchants and allowing merchants to set minimum dollar amounts for the acceptance of credit cards and to offer discounts for different payment methods. These restrictions could negatively affect the number of debit transactions, which would adversely affect our business. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB), which has assumed responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which has the authority to determine whether any nonbank financial company, such as us, should be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve) because it is systemically important to the U.S. financial system. Any such designation would result in increased regulatory burdens on our business, which increases our risk profile and may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, since October 2011, (i) a card payment network may not prohibit a card issuer from contracting with any other card payment network for the processing of electronic debit transactions involving the issuers debit cards and (ii) card issuing financial institutions and card payment networks may not inhibit the ability of merchants to direct the routing of debit card transactions over any card payment networks that can process the transactions. Since April 2012, most debit card issuers have been required to enable at least two unaffiliated card payment networks on each debit card. The interchange fee cap has the potential to alter the type or volume of card-based transactions that we process on behalf of our merchants. These new regulations could result in the need for us to make capital investments to modify our services to facilitate our existing merchants and potential merchants compliance and reduce the fees we are able to charge our merchants. These new regulations also could result in greater pricing transparency and increased price-based competition leading to lower margins and higher rates of merchant attrition. The requirements of the new regulations and the timing of their effective dates could result in changes in our merchants business practices that may alter their delivery of their products and services to consumers and the timing of their investment decisions, which could change the demand for our services and alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our merchants. Any new rules or regulations implemented by the CFPB or the FSOC or in connection with the Dodd-Frank Act that are applicable to us, or any changes that are adverse to us resulting from litigation brought by third parties challenging such rules and regulations, could increase our cost of doing business or limit permissible activities. All persons engaged in commerce, including, but not limited to, us and our merchant and financial institution customers, are subject to Section 5 of the FTC Act prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices (UDAP). In addition, there are other laws, rules and or regulations, including the Telemarketing Sales Act, that may directly impact the activities of our merchant customers and in some cases may subject us, as the merchant's payment processor, to investigations, fees, fines and disgorgement of funds in the event we are deemed to have aided and abetted or otherwise provided the means and instrumentalities to facilitate the illegal activities of the merchant through our payment processing services. Various federal and state regulatory enforcement 18 Table of Contents agencies, including FTC and the states attorneys general have the authority to take action against nonbanks that engage in UDAP or violate other laws, rules or regulations and, to the extent we are processing payments for a merchant that may be in violation of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to enforcement actions and as a result may incur losses and liabilities. Changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, even if not directed at us, may require significant efforts to change our systems and products and may require changes to how we price our services to customers, adversely affecting our business. Even an inadvertent failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage our business or our reputation. Furthermore, we are subject to tax laws in each jurisdiction where we conduct business. Changes in such laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive, the value of tax losses and tax credit carry forwards recorded on our balance sheet and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with changes in interest rates or currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations, and we may not effectively hedge against these risks. We have incurred significant indebtedness that accrues interest at a variable rate, and we may incur additional variable-rate indebtedness in the future. Increases in interest rates will reduce our operating cash flows and could hinder our ability to fund our operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases or dividends. We are also subject to risks related to the changes in currency exchange rates as a result of our investments in foreign operations and from revenues generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Revenue and profit generated by international operations will increase or decrease compared to prior periods as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Volatility in currency exchange rates has affected and may continue to affect our financial results. For example, for fiscal 2014 , currency rate fluctuations decreased our revenues by $10.8 million and our diluted earnings per share by $0.05 as compared to the prior year, calculated by converting our fiscal 2014 actual revenues and expenses at fiscal 2013 rates. In addition, in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our foreign currency into U.S. dollars or limit our ability to freely move currency in or out of particular jurisdictions. The occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. We may seek to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates through the use of hedging arrangements. To the extent that we hedge our interest rate or foreign currency exchange rate exposures, we forgo the benefits we would otherwise experience if interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates were to change in our favor. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates and foreign exchange rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. In addition, a counterparty to the arrangement could default on its obligation, thereby exposing us to credit risk. We may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if we terminate these arrangements. Finally, our interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if such rates move materially differently from our expectations. As a result, we cannot provide any assurance that our hedging arrangements, if any, will effectively manage our interest rate or foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We conduct a portion of our business in various European and Asia-Pacific countries, including the Russian Federation, where the risk of continued political, economic and regulatory change that could impact our operating results is greater than in the United States. We expect to continue to expand our operations into various countries in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Some of these countries, and other foreign countries in which we operate, such as the Russian Federation, have undergone significant political, economic and social change in recent years, and the risk of new, unforeseen changes in these countries remains greater than in the United States. Our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by instability or changes in a countrys or regions economic conditions; changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise; increased difficulty of conducting business in a country or region due to actual or potential political or military conflict; or action by the European Union or the United States, Canada or other governments that may restrict our ability to transact business in a foreign country or with certain foreign individuals or entities, such as sanctions by or against the Russian Federation. In addition, transmittal of data by electronic means and telecommunications is subject to specific regulation in many countries. Although these regulations have not had a material impact on us to date, changes in these regulations, including taxation or limitations on transfers of data between countries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations. 19 Table of Contents The integration and conversion of our acquired operations, or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating both businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process. The acquisition, integration, and conversion of businesses involve a number of risks. Core risks are in the area of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited diligence) and integration and conversion (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, products, technology and other assets to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition). In addition, international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems, and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; complying with foreign regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty entering new foreign markets due to, among other things, customer acceptance and business knowledge of those new markets; and general economic and political conditions. If the integration and conversion process does not proceed smoothly, the following factors, among others, could reduce our revenues and earnings, increase our operating costs, and result in a loss of projected synergies: If we are unable to successfully integrate the benefits plans, duties and responsibilities, and other factors of interest to the management and employees of the acquired business, we could lose employees to our competitors in the region, which could significantly affect our ability to operate the business and complete the integration; If the integration process causes any delays with the delivery of our services, or the quality of those services, we could lose customers to our competitors, which would reduce our revenues and earnings; and The acquisition and the related integration could divert the attention of our management from other strategic matters including possible acquisitions and alliances and planning for new product development or expansion into new electronic payments markets. The costs and effects of pending and future litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, financial position and results of operations. We are from time-to-time involved in various litigation matters and governmental or regulatory investigations or similar matters arising out of our current or future business. Our insurance or indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in pending or future litigation or similar matters under various laws. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any pending litigation or future litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. In our rapidly developing legal framework, we rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or may develop software or technology competitive to us. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or services or design around our intellectual property rights. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which is expensive and could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete. We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our products and technology infringe upon another partys proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our products or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products or technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could limit our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims and require us to design around a third partys patent, which may not be possible, or to license alternative technology from another party, which may be costly. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees. 20 Table of Contents Continued consolidation in the banking and retail industries could adversely affect our growth. Historically, the banking industry has been the subject of consolidation, regardless of overall economic conditions, while the retail industry has been the subject of consolidation due to cyclical economic events. Since 2008, there have been multiple bank failures and government-encouraged consolidation. Larger banks and larger merchants with greater transaction volumes may demand lower fees which could result in lower revenues and earnings for us. Our bank alliances and other strategies could also be negatively impacted as a result of consolidations, especially where the banks involved operate competing merchant processing businesses. Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or changes to enacted tax rates could adversely affect our tax expense. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. We have established contingent liabilities for material known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item. These liabilities reflect what we believe to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely final resolution of each issue if raised by a taxing authority. While we believe that the liabilities are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be finally resolved at a financial cost less than any related liability. An unfavorable resolution, therefore, could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. We record deferred income taxes to reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial accounting and income tax purposes. Deferred income taxes are determined using enacted tax rates. Changes in enacted tax rates may negatively impact our results of operations. We may become subject to additional U.S., state or foreign taxes that cannot be passed through to our merchant services customers, in which case our earnings could be adversely affected. Payment processing companies like us may be subject to taxation by various jurisdictions on our net income or certain portions of our fees charged to customers for our services. Application of these taxes is an emerging issue in our industry and the taxing authorities have not yet all adopted uniform regulations on this topic. If we are required to pay such taxes and are not able to pass the tax expense through to our merchant customers, our costs will increase, reducing our earnings. We have structured our business in accordance with existing tax laws and interpretations of such laws which have been confirmed through either tax rulings or opinions obtained in various jurisdictions, including those related to value added taxes in Europe. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive and the amount of our cash flow and have a material adverse impact on our business. Risks Related to Our Organizational and Capital Structure If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel as we grow, our business could be adversely affected. All of our businesses function at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic and regulatory developments that requires a wide ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. To successfully compete and grow, we must recruit, develop and retain the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of intellectual capital needs. In addition, we must develop our personnel to fulfill succession plans capable of maintaining continuity in the midst of the inevitable unpredictability of human capital. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. Our efforts to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses, which could negatively affect our profitability. We cannot assure that key personnel, including executive officers, will continue to be employed or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents The Company's debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit the Company's flexibility in operating its business. Our credit facilities contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability in certain circumstances to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Company's assets; enter into certain lines of business; and enter into certain transactions with the Company's affiliates. Our credit facilities also contain customary financial covenants based on our leverage ratio and our fixed charge coverage ratio. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of the revolving credit facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under certain of our other indebtedness. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our credit facilities could accelerate the repayment of borrowings, and we may not have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities as well as the Company's other indebtedness. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets consist of intangible assets (including goodwill). Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortization, together accounted for approximately 46.6% and 46.2% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of May 31, 2014 and May 31, 2013 , respectively. We may not realize the full value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. We evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of goodwill and such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to or we may decide not to pay dividends or repurchase shares at a level anticipated by shareholders of our common stock, which could reduce shareholder returns. The extent to which we pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock in the future is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other factors, our earnings, shareholders' equity, cash position, and financial condition. No assurance can be given that we will be able to or will choose to pay any dividends or repurchase any shares in the foreseeable future. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. We operate in a rapidly changing industry. Accordingly, our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective to identify, monitor and manage our risks. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in capturing all risks to which we are or may be exposed, we may suffer uninsured liability, harm to our reputation or be subject to litigation or regulatory actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 22 Table of Contents Further, this assessment may be complicated by any acquisitions we may complete. In certain markets, including, without limitation, China, the Republic of Malta and Spain, our member sponsors perform payment processing operations and related support services pursuant to services agreements. We expect that the member sponsors will continue to provide these services until such time as we may integrate these functions into our operations. Accordingly, we rely on our member sponsors to provide financial data, such as revenue billed to merchants, to assist us with compiling our accounting records. As such, our internal controls over financial reporting could be materially affected, or are reasonably likely to be materially affected, by the internal