Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, involving substantial risks and uncertainties. The words "believe," "may," "will," "potentially," "plan," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "project," "expect" and similar expressions conveying uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, among other things, those regarding: our ability to continue to add new customers and increase sales to our existing customers; our ability to develop new solutions and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing solutions, including GoCentral; our dependence on establishing and maintaining a strong brand; the occurrence of service interruptions and security or privacy breaches; system failures or capacity constraints; the rate of growth of, and anticipated trends and challenges in, our business and in the market for our products; our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, including changes in technology and development, marketing and advertising, general and administrative and customer care expenses, and our ability to achieve and maintain, future profitability; our ability to continue efficiently acquiring customers, maintaining our high customer retention rates and maintaining the level of our customers' lifetime spend; our ability to provide high quality Customer Care; the effects of increased competition in our markets and our ability to compete effectively; our ability to grow internationally; the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our business and our ability to effectively manage the exposure to such fluctuations; our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments; our ability to integrate recent or potential future acquisitions, including our proposed acquisition of Host Europe Holdings Limited (HEG); the transaction costs in connection with our acquisition of HEG; the timing of and our ability to consummate our acquisition of HEG; our ability to maintain our relationships with our partners; adverse consequences of our substantial level of indebtedness; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to maintain or improve our market share; sufficiency of cash and cash equivalents to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our ability to stay in compliance with laws and regulations currently applicable to, or which may become applicable to, our business both in the United States (U.S.) and internationally; economic and industry trends or trend analysis; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; the amount and timing of any payments we make under tax receivable agreements (TRAs) or for tax distributions; the future trading prices of our Class A common stock; as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition, prospects and business strategies. 3 Table of Contents NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) We operate in very competitive and rapidly-changing environments, and new risks emerge from time-to-time. It is not possible for us to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those implied in our forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances described in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Neither we, nor any other person, assume responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this report to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Unless expressly indicated or the context suggests otherwise, references to GoDaddy, we, us and our refer to GoDaddy Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Desert Newco, LLC and its subsidiaries (Desert Newco). We refer to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (together with its affiliates, KKR), Silver Lake Partners (together with its affiliates, Silver Lake) and Technology Crossover Ventures (together with its affiliates, TCV) collectively as the Sponsors. We refer to YAM Special Holdings, Inc. as YAM. We refer to Robert R. Parsons, the sole beneficial owner of YAM, our founder and a member of our board of directors, as Bob Parsons. 4 Table of Contents Part I. Item 1. Business Our customers have bold aspirationsthe drive to be their own boss, write their own story and take a leap of faith to pursue their dreams. Launching that brewery, running that wedding planning service, organizing that fundraiser, expanding that web-design business or whatever sparks their passion. We are inspired by our customers, and are dedicated to helping them turn their powerful ideas into meaningful action. Our vision is to radically shift the global economy toward life-fulfilling independent ventures. Overview Our nearly 15 million customers are people and organizations with vibrant ideasbusinesses, both large and small, entrepreneurs, universities, charities and hobbyists. They are defined by their guts, grit and determination to transform their ideas into something meaningful. They wear many hats and juggle many responsibilities, and they need to make the most of their time. Our customers need help navigating today's dynamic Internet environment and want the benefits of the latest technology to help them succeed. We are a trusted partner and champion for organizations of all sizes in their quest to build successful online ventures. We are a leading technology provider to small businesses, web design professionals and individuals, delivering simple, easy-to-use cloud-based products and outcome-driven, personalized Customer Care. We operate the world's largest domain marketplace, where our customers can find that unique piece of digital real estate perfectly matching their idea. We provide website building, hosting and security tools to help customers easily construct and protect their online presence. As our customers grow, we provide applications and access to relevant third party products helping them connect to their customers, manage and grow their businesses and get found online. Our customers need help navigating today's dynamic Internet environment and want the benefits of the latest technology to help them succeed. The increase in broadband penetration, mobile device usage and the need for presence across search engines, content destinations, listing providers (e.g. Yelp), e-commerce sites and social media channels create both opportunities and challenges for them. We offer products and solutions to help our customers tackle this rapidly changing technology landscape. We develop the majority of our products internally and believe our solutions are among the best in the industry in terms of breadth, performance, functionality and ease of use. Often technology companies force their customers to choose between technology and support, delivering one but not the other. At GoDaddy, we don't believe our customers should have to choose and strive to deliver both great technology and great customer support. We believe engaging with our customers in a proactive, consultative way helps them knock down the technology hurdles they face. Through the thousands of conversations we have with our customers every day, we receive valuable feedback enabling us to continually evolve our products and solutions and respond to their changing needs. Our people and unique culture have been integral to our success. We live by the same principles that enable new ventures to survive and thrive: hard work, perseverance, conviction, an obsession with customer satisfaction and a belief that no one can do it better. We take responsibility for driving successful outcomes and are accountable to our customers, which we believe has been a key factor in enabling our rapid customer and revenue growth. We believe we have one of the most recognized technology brands in the U.S. Our Size and Scale Our combination of easy-to-use cloud-based products, personalized Customer Care, a powerful brand and a unique culture have helped us build an attractive business with strong financial performance. We are the global market leader in domain name registrationa key on-ramp to establishing a business online in our connected economywith more than 63 million domains under management as of December 31, 2016 . According to VeriSign's Domain Name Industry Brief, we had 19% of the world's domains registered as of June 30, 2016 . As of December 31, 2016 , we had nearly 15 million customers and added approximately 1 million customers in 2016 . As of December 31, 2016 , we had nearly 800,000 customers who each spent more than $500 a year. 5 Table of Contents In each of the five years ended December 31, 2016 , our customer retention rate exceeded 85% and our retention rate for customers who had been with us for over three years was approximately 90% . In 2016 , we generated $2,155 million in total bookings, up 12.6% (or approximately 13.8% on a constant currency basis) from $1,914 million in 2015 . In 2016 , we had $1,848 million of revenue, up 15.0% (or approximately 16.7% on a constant currency basis) from $1,607 million in 2015 . As of December 31, 2016 , we provided localized solutions in 56 markets. For the year ended December 31, 2016 , approximately 28% of our total bookings were attributable to customers outside of the U.S. Our highly-rated Customer Care team of more than 4,100 specialists, including more than 1,100 outside the U.S., is focused on providing high-quality, personalized care. As a result of their ongoing dialogue with customers, our Customer Care team also drives bookings and in 2016 generated approximately 24% of our total bookings. Our Market Our customers represent a large and diverse market which we believe is largely underserved. According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, there were approximately 28 million small businesses in 2012. Based on data from the 2012 U.S. Census Bureau and the U.S. Small Business Administration, over 85% of small businesses have fewer than five employees and approximately 23 million , or over 75% of, small businesses were non-employer firms. Furthermore, the Kauffman Index of Entrepreneurial Activity Report estimated that in 2015 there were approximately 530,000 new business owners created each month in the U.S. Moreover, according to a study performed by the International Finance Corporation and McKinsey Company, there are more than 420 million micro, small and medium enterprises (defined as one to 250 employees) worldwide. We believe our addressable market extends beyond small businesses and includes individuals and organizations, such as universities, charities and hobbyists. Despite the ubiquity and importance of the Internet to individual consumers, many small businesses and organizations have remained offline given their limited resources and inadequate tools. We believe approximately 60% of small businesses do not have a website. However, as proliferation of mobile devices blurs the online/offline distinction into an "always online" world, having an impactful online presence is becoming a "must have" for small businesses worldwide. What it means for small businesses and ventures to be online continues to evolve. Only a few years ago, an online presence typically consisted of a simple and static website with basic information, perhaps supported by limited search engine marketing. Today, having an effective online presence requires much more, including a secure and content rich website viewable from any device; presence on social media sites and an increasing number of horizontal and vertical marketplaces (e.g. Yelp and OpenTable); branded email communication; online marketing; and Internet-enabled reservation and scheduling capabilities. In addition, other needs such as telephony, invoicing, payment processing, and accounting and tax preparation, which are typically separate point solutions, can now increasingly be linked to the front-end. The shift toward dynamic online presence for small business has been fueled by the emergence of simple, yet powerful, cloud-based technologies that can easily be utilized by individuals with limited technical skills. Cloud technologies have helped enable the integration of front and back-end activities. Cloud-based products, which can be "rented" on a monthly or yearly basis, allow a business to more easily scale from a nascent idea to a thriving venture. The Parallels SMB Cloud Insights for Global 2014 report estimates the cloud market for small business was $62 billion in 2013, and will double by 2016, growing to $125 billion . Our Customers Our customers share common traits, such as tenacity and determination, yet their specific needs vary depending on the type and stage of their ventures. They range from individuals who are thinking about starting a business to established ventures that are up and running but need help attracting customers, growing their sales, managing their business or expanding their operations. While our customers have differing degrees of resources and technical capabilities, they all share a desire to bring their ideas to life. Our customers are united by a number of common characteristics: entrepreneurial spirit, strong work ethic and, above all, passion for their ventures. Our target customers are primarily local service-based businesses. Most of our customers have fewer than five employees and most identify themselves as having little to no technology skills. They need our help to give their businesses a unique and secure digital identity and tools to help them stay connected with their customers. 6 Table of Contents To serve our customers well at every phase of their ventures, we group them into multiple stages of growth, starting with "nascent" and evolving to "established and content." We have also identified special groups like the "digital commerce" group, which is made up of web-savvy individuals who utilize digital commerce platforms as their primary business vehicles. We also serve a group of customers consisting of web-designers and web-developerswho we call "Web Pros"who are in the business of building, designing and managing the online presence of others. Each of these groups is unique in their needs, and we personalize our solutions to meet them at each stage in their lifecycle. Our OpportunityWhat Successful Ventures Need Our customers are consumers themselves and use the Internet to get informed, research and shop for solutions, which makes them keenly aware of the need to have an impactful online presence. While our customers' needs change depending on where they are in their lifecycle, the most common customer needs we serve include: Getting online and looking great . Our customers want to find a name perfectly identifying their business, hobby or passion. Once they have a name, they want to create a digital identity so their customers can find, engage and transact with them online. We believe a complete digital identity includes an elegant, mobile-enabled website and the ability to get found across various search engines, social media platforms and vertical marketplaces. Growing their business and running their operations . Our customers need to communicate with their existing customers and find new customers. They also need tools to help them run their businesses, from telephony, productivity and marketing tools to getting paid and balancing their books. In today's online world, these activities can now increasingly be linked to a customer's online presence. Easy-to-use products with help from a real person when needed . Our customers want easy-to-use products and sometimes they need help from real people to set up their website, launch a new feature or try something new. We build products that are intuitive for beginners to use, yet robust and feature-rich to address the needs of expert designers and power-users. We also provide high quality, consultative Customer Care and advise our customers as needed. Technology that grows with them . Our customers need a simple platform and set of tools enabling their domain, website and other solutions to easily work together as their venture grows and becomes more complex. The right platform can meet the needs of both an entrepreneur who is not technologically savvy and a Web Pro with a more complex set of requirements. Reliability, security and performance . Our customers expect reliable products and want to be confident their digital presence is secure. Our customers work on their ventures whenever and however they can and need solutions fitting their lifestyle and schedule. Affordable solutions . Our customers often have limited financial resources and are unable to make large, upfront investments in the latest technology. Our customers need affordable solutions leveling the playing field and giving them the tools to look and act like bigger ventures. Our SolutionWhat We Do and How We Do It We built GoDaddy to serve our customers by providing elegant, easy-to-use cloud-based products wrapped with personalized Customer Care. Our customers turn to us in order to: Get a great domain name . Every great idea needs a great name. Staking a claim with a domain name has become the first step in establishing an idea and presence online. When inspiration strikes, we are there to provide our customers with high-quality search, discovery and recommendation tools as well as the broadest selection of domains to help them find the right name for their venture. Turn their domain into a dynamic online presence . Our products, including GoCentral, enable anyone to build an elegant website or online store, for both desktop and mobile, regardless of technical skill. Our products, powered by a unified cloud platform, enable our customers to get found online by helping to enhance the information on their website and extending their website and its content to where they need to be, from search engine results (e.g. Google) to social media (e.g. Facebook) to vertical marketplaces (e.g. Yelp and FourSquare), all from one location. For more technically-sophisticated web designers, developers and customers, we provide high-performance, flexible hosting and security products that can be used with a variety of open source design tools. We design these solutions to be easy to use, effective, reliable, flexible and a great value. 7 Table of Contents Add back-office and marketing products . Our customers want to spend their time on what matters most to them, selling their products or services or helping their customers do the same. We provide them with productivity tools such as domain-specific email, online storage and invoicing and payment solutions to help run their ventures. We also provide robust marketing products, such as email marketing, to help them attract and retain customers. Use our products together in a solution that grows with our customers over time . Our API-driven technology platform is built on state-of-the-art, open source technologies like Hadoop, OpenStack and other large-scale, distributed systems. Simply put, we believe our products work well together and are more valuable and easier to use together than if our customers purchased them individually from other companies and tried to integrate them. Additionally, our platform allows our developers to innovate new and enhanced products or product features assembled from common building blocks leading to faster deployment cycles. Receive assistance from our highly-rated Customer Care team . Our Customer Care team consists of more than 4,100 specialists who are available 24/7/365 and are capable of providing care to customers having different levels of technical sophistication. Our specialists are evaluated on customer outcomes and the quality of the experience they provide. We strive to provide high-quality, consultative care and deliver a distinctive experience helping us create loyal customers who renew their subscriptions, purchase additional products and refer their family and friends to us. Utilize a reliable, secure, global technology platform and infrastructure . In 2016 , we handled on average nearly 18 billion DNS queries per day and hosted approximately 10 million websites on servers located throughout our worldwide data centers. We focus on online security, customer privacy and reliable infrastructure to address the evolving needs of our customers. Receive high value . We price most of our products at a few dollars per month while providing our customers with robust features and functionality. We believe our high-quality products and personalized Customer Care provide our customers with an affordable bridge between their available resources and their aspirations. Our AdvantagesWhy We Win We believe the following strengths provide us with competitive advantages in realizing the potential of our opportunity: We are the leading domain name marketplace, a key on-ramp in establishing a digital identity . We are the global market leader in domain name registration. According to VeriSign's Domain Name Industry Brief, we held over 19% of the approximately 335 million worldwide domain names under management as of June 30, 2016 . As of December 31, 2016 , we had more than 63 million domains under management. We combine an integrated cloud-technology platform with rich data science . At our core, we are a product and technology company. As of December 31, 2016 , we had 922 engineers, 193 issued patents and 186 pending patent applications in the U.S. Our investments in technology and development and our data science capabilities enable us to innovate and deliver a personalized experience to our customers. We operate an industry-leading Customer Care team that also drives bookings . We give our customers much more than typical customer support. Our team is unique, blending personalized Customer Care with the ability to evaluate our customers' needs, which allows us to help and advise them as well as drive incremental bookings. Our Customer Care team contributed approximately 24% of our total bookings in 2016 . Our customers respond to our personalized approach with high marks for customer satisfaction. Our proactive Customer Care model is a key component helping create long-term customer relationships, which is reflected in our high retention rates. Our brand and marketing efficiency . We believe GoDaddy is one of the most recognized technology brands in the U.S. Through a combination of cost-effective direct-marketing, brand advertising and customer referrals, we have increased our total customers from 10.2 million as of December 31, 2012 to 14.7 million as of December 31, 2016 . Our financial model . Our stable and predictable business model is driven by efficient customer acquisition, high customer retention rates and increasing lifetime spend. In each of the five years ended December 31, 2016 , our customer retention rate exceeded 85% and our retention rate for customers who had been with us for over three years was approximately 90% . We believe the breadth and depth of our product offerings and the high quality and responsiveness of our Customer Care team builds strong customer relationships and are keys to our high level of customer retention. Our people and our culture . We are a company whose people embody the grit and determination of our customers. Our world-class engineers, scientists, designers, marketers and Customer Care specialists share a passion for technology and its ability to change our customers' lives. We value hard work, extraordinary effort, living passionately, 8 Table of Contents taking intelligent risks and working together toward successful customer outcomes. Our relentless pursuit of doing right for our customers has been a crucial ingredient of our growth. Our scale . We have achieved significant scale in our business enabling us to efficiently acquire new customers, serve our existing customers and continue to invest in growth. In 2016 , we generated $2,155 million in total bookings up from $1,250 million in 2012 , representing a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 15% . In 2016 , we had $1,848 million of revenue up from $911 million in 2012 , representing a CAGR of 19% . In 2016, we had $387 million of net cash provided by operating activities. In the five years ended December 31, 2016 , we invested to support our growth with $1,190 million in technology and development expenses and $871 million in marketing and advertising expenses. Our StrategyHow We Grow We are pursuing the following principal strategies to drive our business: Expand and innovate our product offerings . Our product innovation priorities include: Delivering the next generation of naming . The first generation of naming included a limited set of generic top-level domains (gTLDs), such as .com and .net, and country code top-level domains (ccTLDs), such as .uk and .in. With approximately 335 million existing domains registered, it may be increasingly difficult for customers to find the name best suiting their needs. As a result, ICANN began introducing more than 1,300 new gTLDs in late 2013. We merchandise hundreds of these newer gTLDs, including new generic options (e.g. .shop and .blog) as well as names geared toward professions (e.g. .photography), personal interests (e.g. .club), geographies (e.g. .london, .nyc and .vegas) and just plain fun (e.g. .ninja). Additionally, we have invested to expand the secondary market to help match buyers to sellers who already own domains. Our GoDaddy Investor mobile application helps investors watch and bid on domains at auction and stay on top of current bids from their mobile devices. We continue to invest in search, discovery and recommendation tools and transfer protocols for both primary and secondary domains. Powering elegant and effortless presence . We continue to invest in tools, templates and technology to make building, maintaining and updating a professional looking mobile or desktop website simple and easy. Additionally, we are investing in products to help our customers drive their customer acquisition efforts by managing their presence across search engines, social networks and vertical marketplaces and keep their online presence and information secure. We recently launched GoCentral, a new service combining a mobile-optimized website builder with an integrated set of marketing and e-commerce tools to help our customers create an audience for their idea or business, enabling them to design a professional website in under an hour. Making the business of business easy . Our business applications range from domain-specific email and email marketing to telephony services and payment tools to help our customers communicate with their customers and grow their ventures. We intend to continue investing in the breadth of our product offerings to help our customers connect with their customers and run their ventures. Win the Web Pros . We are investing in building a suite of tools and services for web designers and developers to help them save time, make money and exceed client expectations. These client management tools include administrative access and shopping features making it easier for designers and developers to buy and manage products for their clients. We have further bolstered our Web Pro-focused suite through recent acquisitions, strengthening our site management capabilities and technical support and extending our reach into the WordPress community. Go global . As of December 31, 2016 , approximately 34% of our customers were located in international markets, notably Canada, India and the United Kingdom. We have made significant investments in the localization of our service offerings in markets outside of the U.S. and, as of December 31, 2016 , we offered localized products and Customer Care in 56 markets. To support our international growth, we will continue investing to develop our local capabilities across products, marketing programs, data centers and Customer Care. Our recent international acquisitions, including our proposed acquisition of HEG, are an important part of this international growth. Partner up . Our flexible platform also enables us to acquire companies and quickly launch new products for our customers, including through partnerships such as Microsoft Office 365 for email and PayPal for payments. We have 9 Table of Contents also acquired companies and technologies to complement our product and service offerings and expand our geographic footprint. We intend to continue identifying value-added technology acquisition targets and partnership opportunities. Make it personal . We seek to leverage data and insights to personalize the product and Customer Care experiences of our customers as well as tailor our solutions and marketing efforts to each of our customer groups. We are constantly seeking to improve our website, marketing programs and Customer Care to intelligently reflect where customers are in their lifecycle and identify their specific product needs. We intend to continue investing in our technology and data platforms to further enable our personalization efforts. Wrap it with Care . We believe our highly-rated Customer Care team is distinctive and essential to the lifetime value proposition we offer our customers. We continue to invest in our Customer Care team, including investing to expand our Customer Care service, improve the quality of our Customer Care resources and introduce enhanced tools and processes across our expanding global footprint. Products We have designed and developed an extensive set of easy-to-use cloud-based technology products enabling our customers to establish a digital presence, connect with their customers and manage their ventures. We understand our customers' needs vary depending on the type and stage of their venture, which is why we offer our products both independently and bundled as suites of integrated products designed for specific activities. Our domain name registration products enable us to engage customers at the initial stage of establishing a digital identity and act as an on-ramp for our other products. We believe our hosting, presence and business applications products increase our revenue and margin growth opportunities, frequently serve as starting points for our customer relationships, improve customer retention and significantly improve our value proposition to customers. Domains We are the global market leader in domain name registration. Securing a domain is a necessary first step to creating a digital identity and our domain products often serve as the starting point in our customer relationships. As of December 31, 2016 , more than 93% of our customers had purchased a domain from us, and as of December 31, 2016 , we had more than 63 million domains under management. In 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we generated approximately 50% , 52% and 55% of our total revenue, respectively, from sales of our domain products. Our primary domains product offerings are: Primary Registrations . Using our website or mobile application, we offer customers the ability to search for and register available domain names, or primary registrations, with the relevant registry. Our inventory for primary registrations is defined by the number of top-level domains (TLDs) we offer. As of December 31, 2016 , 391 different gTLDs (e.g. .com, .net and .org) and 50 different ccTLDs (e.g. .de, .ca, .in and .jp.) were available for purchase through our primary registration product. Since 2013, new gTLDs have been periodically launched, including names geared toward professions (e.g. .photography), personal interests (e.g. .guru), geographies (e.g. .london, .nyc and .vegas) and just plain fun (e.g. .ninja). These new gTLDs make it easier for companies and individuals to find and register new, easy-to-remember domain names tailored to their ventures, industry or interests that may not have been available in the relatively crowded, traditional gTLDs such as .com. ccTLDs are important to our international expansion efforts as we have found international customers often prefer the ccTLD for the country or geographic market in which they operate. Our primary registration offering relies heavily on our search, discovery and recommendation tools which enable our customers to find a name matching their needs. We also sell domain registrations through relationships with third-party resellers. A ftermarket . We operate the world's largest domain aftermarket which processes aftermarket, or secondary, domain name sales. Our aftermarket platform, which we substantially supplemented through our acquisition of Afternic in 2013, is designed to enable the seamless purchase and sale of an already registered domain name through an online auction, an offer and counter-offer transaction or a "buy now" transaction. In 2015 and 2016, we acquired more than 430,000 domain names to increase the inventory available to our customers. In January 2016, we launched the GoDaddy Investor mobile application to help investors watch and bid on domains at auction and stay on top of their current bids, all from their mobile devices. We operate a cross-registrar network that automates transaction execution across registrars thereby reducing the time required to complete a transaction. We receive a percentage of the sales price for each domain sold. 10 Table of Contents Domain Name Add-Ons . Domain name add-ons are features a customer can add to a domain name registration. Our domain name privacy product allows our customers to register a domain name on an "unlisted" basis. This product helps prevent privacy intrusions, helps deter domain related spam and allows our customers to confidentially secure a domain for an unannounced product, service or idea. Domain name add-ons are typically purchased concurrently with domain name registrations and have minimal costs associated with their delivery. Hosting and Presence We offer a variety of hosting and presence products enabling our customers to create and manage their digital identity, or in the case of Web Pros, the digital identities of their end-customers. As of December 31, 2016 , we hosted approximately 10 million websites. In each of 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we derived approximately 37% of our total revenue from sales of our hosting and presence products. Our primary hosting products are: Shared Website Hosting . The term "shared hosting" refers to the housing of multiple websites on the same server via the use of chroot environments. Shared hosting is our most popular hosting product. We operate, maintain and support shared website hosting in our owned and operated data center and our leased co-located data center facilities using either Linux or Windows operating systems. We currently offer three tiers of shared website hosting plans to suit the needs and resources of our customers, all of which use industry standard cPanel or Parallels Plesk control panels. We also bundle our hosting plans with a variety of applications and products such as web analytics and SSL certificates. Website Hosting on Virtual Private Servers and Virtual Dedicated Servers . Our broad range of virtual private server and virtual dedicated server offerings allows our customers to select the server configuration best suited for their applications, requirements and growth. Our virtual private server offering provides customers with a single virtual machine running on a single bare metal server that is running multiple other virtual machines for other customers. Our virtual private server product is designed to meet the requirements of customers with a need for greater control, more advanced technical capabilities and higher performance than that offered by our shared hosting plans. For those customers who have a need for dedicated resources, we created our virtual dedicated server product, providing customers with a single tenant virtual machine housed on a bare metal server reserved exclusively for their use. Our customers have the ability to tailor their virtual dedicated server plan based on a range of performance, storage, bandwidth and operating system. Managed Hosting . With our managed hosting products, we set up, monitor, maintain, secure and patch software and servers for our customers. We offer a variety of managed hosting plans to support our customers' needs including multiple tiers of Managed WordPress hosting on a platform optimized for WordPress. We also offer other managed environments that span across our VPS and Dedicated products like Joomla, Drupal and Magento and apps like Gallery. In addition to managed hosting plans tailored to our customers' needs, we also offer expert services, which provide additional support services at a fixed hourly rate. Security . Our security products include secure sockets layer certificates (SSLs), malware scanners and malware removal. According to Netcraft, we are one of the world's largest provider of SSLs. An SSL validates a customer's website identity and encrypts online transactional information, such as credit card information, and communications sent to or by the website. We offer a variety of SSLs all of which provide high-grade, 256-bit encryption. Our SSL offerings include multiple domain SSLs and "wildcard" SSLs, which secure a singular website URL as well as subdomains on that URL (e.g. protectmyvisitors.com and cart.protectmyvisitors.com). We also offer "code signing certificates" designed to prove the identity of software authors and validate that the software has not been tampered with since its original distribution. Our primary presence products are: Website Builder . Our Website Builder is an easy-to-use, do-it-yourself online tool enabling customers, irrespective of their technical skills, to build elegant websites. We offer a variety of plans, with pricing dependent on the number of available design styles and desired business and marketing features. With each of these plans, customers have access to hundreds of professional designs which can be further customized using our drag-and-drop editor by adding photos, graphics or text. Our designs cover a wide range of categories with professionally written content for small businesses, organizations, families, athletic teams, weddings, reunions and other interest groups. Once built, websites can be easily connected to social profiles, such as Facebook and Twitter, and optimized for search engines. Our customers are also able to receive a mobile-optimized version of their website through Website Builder. 11 Table of Contents E-commerce . Our online store product allows customers to easily create their own standalone website with an integrated online store optimized for mobile shopping, which allows customers to showcase products, manage inventory and shipping and securely accept payments via credit card, Apple Pay or PayPal. The online store also provides integrated tools for customers to maximize their sales via Google, email marketing and Facebook. Search Engine Visibility . Search Engine Visibility (SEV) helps our customers get their websites found on major search sites through search engine optimization. SEV offers a simple step-by-step wizard giving targeted recommendations on which search phrases are most likely to drive traffic to a customer's site. We have built a ground-up system that helps our customers receive specific recommendations on keywords and content. Customers who are using a domain name and DNS purchased from GoDaddy can also automatically apply updates with one click, meaning they never have to touch a line of code. Business Applications We offer a variety of products designed to make the business of business easier for our customers. The products we offer include those developed in-house as well as third-party applications which we distribute and support, such as Microsoft Office 365. In 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we derived approximately 13% , 11% and 8% of our total revenue, respectively, from sales of our business applications products. Our primary business applications products are: Microsoft Office 365 . We offer fully-supported Microsoft Office 365 email accounts that are easy to set up and use with our customers' domains. We offer Microsoft Office 365 in multiple plans ranging from email with calendar and contacts connected to a custom domain to a full suite of productivity tools, including file sharing and full desktop versions of applications, including Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint. For customers needing to comply with regulatory requirements, we offer email add-on services such as HIPPA-enabled email, encryption services (in partnership with ProofPoint) and archiving services (in partnership with Sonian). Microsoft Office 365 is easy to set up and can be up and running in minutes. Email Accounts . We offer a range of email service plans that connect to our customers' domains. Some of these plans include a multi-feature web interface, an integrated calendar and secure online storage. The pricing of these plans depends on the customer's desired amount of storage and number of email addresses. All of our email accounts are advertising-free and include security functionality designed to provide protection from spam, viruses and other forms of online fraud, such as phishing. Email Marketing . Our email marketing product helps customers market their businesses through permission-based email. Customers can easily create and send newsletters, targeted advertising campaigns, promotions and surveys as well as connect email campaigns with their social media networks and track the results of campaigns. Telephony . Through our 2016 acquisition of Freedom Voice, we provide internet-based telephone services that can be accessed with either IP phones, or traditional local or cellular telephone services. Some of our telephone plans include additional services, such as voicemail, a virtual receptionist, a customizable phone tree, voicemail transcription, follow-me call forwarding, fax on demand and email delivery of voicemail. We expect to launch expanded telephony services through our Smartline offering during the second quarter of 2017. Technology and Infrastructure Our technology platform forms the core of many of our solutions, and we have invested significantly to develop a platform designed to be intelligent, fast, secure and scalable. Our technology and development expenses, including those expenses related to our technology platform, were $288 million , $270 million and $251 million in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. We have built a scalable platform allowing us to provide faster business insights at lower costs, develop and introduce new products quickly and leverage economies of scale to reduce costs and enable next-generation hosting architecture. Our technology stack, which includes physical infrastructure, Infrastructure-as-a-Service, Platform-as-a-Service, applications and data science, allows our customers to build and manage their digital identities and enable access across multiple devices. We seek to continuously enhance the performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure by investing in faster data centers, improved network connectivity and improved resiliency, both domestically and internationally. Physical infrastructure Our physical technology infrastructure includes servers located throughout 12 data centers around the world. We have also invested significantly in our peering architecture and utilize multiple peering sites allowing us to handle high IP transit traffic 12 Table of Contents at low bandwidth costs. Our large technology infrastructure footprint allows us to leverage economies of scale through low server, network, storage and processing costs by commoditizing hardware across various systems and leveraging virtualization where possible. Infrastructure-as-a-Service We leverage an Infrastructure-as-a-Service model geared toward the virtualization and automation of common physical data center components like servers, load balancers, switches and storage. We use open source solutions when possible to automate manual processes and thereby reduce the risk of human error as well as to lower costs. Additionally, we are beginning to use a single automated infrastructure based on OpenStack to enable next-generation services. Platform-as-a-Service Our cloud platform offers our customers an integrated and comprehensive set of time-saving services. Our platform is designed to help us reduce costs, increase personalization and more easily and quickly build and deploy new products. We continuously invest to develop our platform capabilities and have recently deployed a new authentication platform allowing us to onboard new products more quickly and securely. We have also deployed Cassandra, an open source distributed database management system, across our datacenters for improved customer data replication enabling personalization. We have started to introduce container technology, managed through an orchestration platform, to further simplify and automate how we build and manage services. Applications Our platform is highly-flexible, allowing us to easily integrate third-party offerings and enhance our value proposition to our customers by offering comprehensive and integrated solutions that can be rapidly scaled up or down and used across multiple platforms, including mobile. Our platform also allows resellers to easily sell our products, thereby broadening our distribution channels. We seek to continuously launch new and relevant applications and streamline our existing offerings in order to provide the best user experience to our customers. Data science Our data collection technology enables us to collect customer, product and business data from various sources, including web crawling, local listings providers (e.g. Yelp and state business registrations), social platforms (e.g. Facebook and Twitter) and mobile platforms (e.g. geolocation and e-commerce). We use Hadoop, an open source software framework for storage and large-scale processing of data sets, to develop an integrated customer insights data platform. By integrating this data, we are able to offer personalized and intelligent insights and business intelligence to our customers that they can access via dashboards. These dashboards also enhance our ability to develop and offer differentiated products and more intelligent Customer Care. We believe our ability to offer this insight helps us deliver the right solutions targeted to the needs of our customers and attract more businesses to our platform. Customer Care We have more than 4,100 Customer Care specialists who provide technical assistance 24/7/365 to customers located around the world. Operating as "business consultants," our specialists advise customers of products best suiting their individual needs. This ability to provide real-time product suggestions while providing a world-class support experience allows our Customer Care team to provide an impactful contribution to bookings through the sale of product subscriptions. Our Customer Care specialists take great pride in owning outcomes and being accountable to our customers, both of which are essential to enhancing customer experience. In each of 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , at least 23% of our total bookings were generated from the sale of product subscriptions by our Customer Care team. The majority of our Customer Care specialists are located in our Arizona and Iowa facilities in the U.S. We have additional international specialists providing in-region support in native languages. In addition, our easy-to-use website contains extensive educational content designed to demystify the process of establishing an online presence and to assist customers in choosing the products best meeting their needs. Our Customer Care team spans a variety of channels to provide tailored and timely support to our customers, handling approximately 14 million contacts annually in each of the last three years. Our customers can choose their preferred Customer Care channel, including proactive and reactive chat and phone support. We take a consultative approach to our customers, acting as a trusted partner to guide them through the process with technical solutions supporting them at each phase of their lifecycle and 13 Table of Contents offer real-time product suggestions best suited to the customers' needs. The effectiveness of our model is reflected in the high ratings we receive from our customers, the bookings generated by our Customer Care team and strong customer referrals. The strength of our Customer Care team is our people. Our hiring process is extensive and highly selective, designed to yield individuals who will thrive in our team based on core values, character, work ethic and ability. Our new Customer Care hires spend over a month moving from classroom to a live "nesting" environment where they refine their customer and technology skills. With a commitment to life-long learning, we offer hundreds of classes to our employees spanning leadership, sales, service and technology. We have an incentive program that rewards outcomes, across both customer satisfaction and bookings goals. For that and many other reasons, as of December 31, 2016 , approximately 40% of our Customer Care specialists had been with us for at least three years. Marketing We believe GoDaddy is one of the most recognized technology brands in the U.S. We have established this high level of brand awareness primarily through our advertising campaigns across various platforms including television commercials, print, online and billboards. We have supplemented these advertising campaigns with athlete and celebrity sponsorships. Our strong brand has helped us attract and retain nearly 15 million customers as of December 31, 2016 . We intend to continue investing in our brand as we seek to further grow our total customers, particularly internationally. Customer referrals are another highly efficient and cost-effective channel for acquiring customers. We complement our brand marketing efforts with highly focused and metric-driven direct response marketing to acquire new customers. We use a variety of targeted online marketing programs for lead generation, including search engine marketing, search engine optimization and targeted email and social media marketing campaigns, as well as more traditional direct marketing and indirect channel partner marketing programs, to drive interest in our products and traffic to our websites. As part of this effort, we regularly run numerous campaigns simultaneously and constantly refine our media mix across our channels. International Central to our international strategy is a philosophy of localizing our product offerings and deploying them through our global infrastructure. We have nearly 5 million customers outside of the U.S. In 2016 , we derived approximately 28% of our total bookings from international sales compared to 26% in 2015 and 25% in 2014 . We have devoted substantial, dedicated resources to growing our international presence, leading to the expansion of our localized products and Customer Care to 56 markets as of December 31, 2016 . We believe our international scale and growth to date are indicative of the international growth opportunities available to us and position us to continue to grow our business outside the U.S. We have built a dedicated team responsible for the internationalization and localization of our core product offerings as well as our Customer Care and marketing efforts. In conjunction with our localization efforts, we have added on-the-ground regional teams and increased our country and regional specific marketing spend. These investments have enabled us to successfully launch and expand our business in select international markets. Our success in these markets has furthered our belief that our international model can work in both established and emerging markets. We have taken a rigorous approach to managing the level of investment we expect to make in each geographic market we enter based on a market tier approach. We expect to continue to expand internationally, growing our share and increasing penetration of the international markets we've entered in recent years, including through our proposed acquisition of HEG. Competition We provide cloud-based solutions enabling individuals, businesses and organizations to establish an online presence, connect with customers and manage their ventures. The market for providing these solutions is highly fragmented and competitive. These solutions are also rapidly evolving, creating opportunity for new competitors to enter the market with point-solution products or address specific segments of the market. In some instances, we have commercial partnerships with companies with which we also compete. Given our broad product portfolio, we compete with niche point-solution products and broader solution providers. Our competitors include providers of: domain registration services and web-hosting solutions such as Endurance, Rightside, United Internet and Web.com; website creation and management solutions such as Automattic, Shopify, Squarespace, and Wix; cloud-infrastructure services and online security providers such as Comodo, Symantec, Let's Encrypt and WP Engine; 14 Table of Contents alternative web presence and marketing solutions such as Constant Contact, Etsy, OpenTable, Yelp and Zillow; and productivity tools such as business-class email, calendaring and file-sharing such as Dropbox, Microsoft and Google. We expect continued competition from companies in the domain, hosting and presence markets such as Automattic, Endurance, Rightside, Squarespace, United Internet, Web.com and Wix. We also expect potential increased competition from companies like Amazon, Google and Microsoft, which are providers of web-hosting and other cloud-based services. Google has recently entered the domain registration business, with eBay and Facebook both offering robust Internet marketing platforms. We believe the principal competitive factors include: product capabilities meeting customer requirements, a secure, reliable and integrated technology platform, cost-effective customer acquisition, brand awareness and reputation, customer service and support and overall customer satisfaction. We believe we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. For additional information, see "Risk Factors." Regulation Our business is subject to regulation by ICANN, federal and state laws in the U.S. and the laws of other jurisdictions in which we do business. ICANN . The registration of domain names is governed by ICANN. ICANN is a multi-stakeholder private sector, not-for-profit corporation formed in 1998 for the express purposes of overseeing a number of Internet related tasks, including management of the DNS, allocation of IP addresses, accreditation of domain name registrars and registries and the definition and coordination of policy development for all of these functions. We are accredited by ICANN as a domain name registrar and thus our ability to offer domain name registration products is subject to our ongoing relationship with and accreditation by ICANN. The regulation of Internet domain names in the U.S. and in foreign countries is subject to change. For example, in 2016, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, or the NTIA, an agency of the U.S. Department of Commerce, transitioned oversight of key Internet domain name functions to the global multi-stakeholder community. As a result, there is uncertainty at this time concerning the nature and significance of this recent transition from U.S. oversight of ICANN to oversight of ICANN by other bodies. ccTLD Authorities . The regulation of ccTLDs is governed by national regulatory agencies of the country underlying the specific ccTLDs, such as China (.cn), Canada (.ca) and the United Kingdom (.uk). Our ability to sell ccTLDs is dependent on our and our partners' ability to maintain accreditation in good standing with these various international authorities. Advertising and promotional information presented on our websites and in our products, and our other marketing and promotional activities, are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws regulating unfair and deceptive practices. U.S. federal, state, and foreign legislatures have also adopted laws and regulations regulating numerous other aspects of our business. Regulations relating to the Internet, including laws governing online content, user privacy, taxation, liability for third-party activities and jurisdiction, are particularly relevant to our business. Such laws and regulations are discussed below. Communications Decency Act . The CDA regulates content of material on the Internet, and provides immunity to Internet service providers and providers of interactive computer services for certain claims based on content posted by third parties. The CDA and the case law interpreting it generally provide that domain name registrars and website hosting providers cannot be liable for defamatory or obscene content posted by customers on their servers unless they participate in creating or developing the content. Digital Millennium Copyright Act . The DMCA provides domain name registrars and website hosting providers a safe harbor from liability for third-party copyright infringement. To qualify for the safe harbor, however, registrars and website hosting providers must satisfy numerous requirements, including adoption of a user policy providing for termination of service access of users who are repeat infringers, informing users of this policy, and implementing the policy in a reasonable manner. In addition, registrars and website hosting providers must expeditiously remove or disable access to content upon receiving a proper notice from a copyright owner alleging infringement of its protected works. A registrar or website hosting provider failing to comply with these safe harbor requirements may be found liable for copyright infringement. Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Pr otection Act. The ACPA was enacted to address piracy on the Internet by curtailing a practice known as "cybersquatting," or the bad-faith registration of a domain name identical or similar to another party's trademark, or to the name of another living person, in order to profit from that name or mark. The ACPA provides that registrars 15 Table of Contents may not be held liable for damages for registration or maintenance of a domain name for another person absent a showing of the registrar's bad faith intent to profit. Registrars may, however, be held liable if their activities are deemed outside the scope of basic registrar functions. Lanham Act . The Lanham Act governs trademarks and false advertising. Case law interpreting the Lanham Act has limited liability for many online service providers such as search engines and domain name registrars. Nevertheless, there is no statutory safe harbor for trademark violations comparable to the provisions of the DMCA and we may be subject to a variety of trademark claims in the future. Privacy and Data Protection . In the areas of personal privacy and data protection, the U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on, and requirements associated with, the collection, distribution, use, storage, and security of personal information of individuals. If our practices with respect to the collection, distribution, storage, or security of personal information are challenged, we may not be able to demonstrate adequate compliance with existing or future laws or regulations. In addition, in the European Union member states and certain other countries outside the U.S., data protection is more highly regulated and rigidly enforced. As we conduct and expand our business within these countries, we expect compliance with these regulatory schemes to be more burdensome and costly for us. Laws and regulations relating to our activities are unsettled in many jurisdictions, or may prove difficult or impossible to comply with in some jurisdictions. Additionally, federal, state, local and foreign governments are also considering legislative and regulatory proposals that would regulate the Internet and our activities in more and different ways than exist today. It also is impossible to predict whether new taxes will be imposed on our services, and depending upon the type of such taxes, whether and how we would be affected. Laws and regulations in the U.S. or in foreign jurisdictions may be applied in new or different manners in pending or future litigation. Further, other existing bodies of law, including the criminal laws of various jurisdictions, may be deemed to apply to our activities, or new statutes or regulations may be adopted in the future. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights Our intellectual property and proprietary rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality and access-related procedures and safeguards and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technologies, confidential information, brands and other intellectual property. We have also developed, acquired or licensed proprietary technologies for use in our business. As of December 31, 2016 , we had 193 issued patents in the U.S. covering various aspects of our product offerings. Additionally, as of December 31, 2016 , we had 186 pending U.S. patent applications and intend to file additional patent applications in the future. We have non-disclosure, confidentiality and license agreements with employees, contractors, customers and other third parties, which limit access to and use of our proprietary information. Though we rely in part upon these legal and contractual protections, as well as various procedural safeguards, we believe the skill and ingenuity of our employees, the functionality and frequent enhancements to our solutions and our ability to introduce new products and features meeting the needs of our customers are more important to maintaining our competitive position in the marketplace. We have an ongoing trademark and service mark registration program pursuant to which we register our brand names and product names, taglines and logos in the U.S. and other countries to the extent we determine appropriate and cost-effective. We also have common law rights in some unregistered trademarks that were established over years of use. In addition, we have a trademark and service mark enforcement program pursuant to which we monitor applications filed by third parties to register trademarks and service marks that may be confusingly similar to ours, as well as the use of our major brand names in social media, domain names and other Internet sites. Despite our efforts to preserve and protect our intellectual property, unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain access to our proprietary rights, and competitors may attempt to develop solutions that could compete with us in the markets we serve. Unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information or proprietary technologies by our employees or third parties could also occur. The risk of unauthorized use of our proprietary and intellectual property rights may increase as we continue to expand outside of the U.S. Third-party infringement claims are also possible in our industry, especially as functionality and features expand, evolve and overlap across industries. Third parties, including non-practicing patent holders, have from time to time claimed, and could claim in the future, that our processes, technologies or websites infringe patents they now hold or might obtain or be issued in the future. 16 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2016 , we had 4,749 employees worldwide, including 3,019 in our Customer Care team, 922 in technology and development, 164 in marketing and advertising and 644 in general and administrative. Excluded from our employee figures are more than 1,100 Customer Care specialists located in China, The Philippines, Mexico, India and the United Kingdom who are directly employed by third-party partners, but who are dedicated to GoDaddy on a full time basis. Substantially all of our employees are based in the U.S. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is party to any collective bargaining agreement in connection with his or her employment with us. 17 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties we are unaware of, or we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors affecting us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to attract and retain customers and increase sales to new and existing customers, our business and operating results would be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain customers and increase sales to new and existing customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from domains and our hosting and presence products. The rate at which new and existing customers purchase and renew subscriptions to our products depends on a number of factors, including those outside of our control. Although our total customers and revenue have grown rapidly in the past, in recent periods our slower growth rates have reflected the size and scale of our business. We cannot be assured that we will achieve similar growth rates in future periods. In future periods, our total customers and revenue could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. Our sales could fluctuate or decline as a result of lower demand for domain names, websites and related products, declines in our customers' level of satisfaction with our products and our Customer Care, the timeliness and success of product enhancements and introductions by us and those of our competitors, the pricing offered by us and our competitors, the frequency and severity of any system outages, breaches and technological change. Our revenue has grown historically due in large part to sustained customer growth rates and strong renewal sales of subscriptions to our domain name registration and hosting and presence products. Our future success depends in part on maintaining strong renewal sales. Our costs associated with renewal sales are substantially lower than costs associated with generating revenue from new customers and costs associated with generating sales of additional products to existing customers. Therefore, a reduction in renewals, even if offset by an increase in other revenue, would reduce our operating margins in the near term. Any failure by us to continue to attract new customers or maintain strong renewal sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and operating results. If we are unable to increase sales of additional products, such as personalized email accounts and other business applications products, to new and existing customers, our growth prospects may be harmed. If we do not successfully develop and market products that anticipate or respond promptly to the needs of our customers, our business and operating results may suffer. The markets in which we compete are characterized by constant change and innovation, and we expect them to continue to evolve rapidly. Our historical success has been based on our ability to identify and anticipate customer needs and design products providing small businesses and ventures with the tools they need to create, manage and augment their digital identity. To the extent we are not able to continue to identify challenges faced by small businesses and ventures and provide products responding in a timely and effective manner to their evolving needs, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain. If we fail to accurately predict customers' changing needs or emerging technological trends, or if we fail to achieve the benefits expected from our investments in technology (including investments in our internal development efforts, such as our "do-it-yourself" website builder GoCentral and security products; acquisitions, such as the acquisition of FreedomVoice and the addition of telephony services such as Smartline; or partner programs), our business could be harmed. We must continue to commit significant resources to develop our technology in order to maintain our competitive position, and these commitments will be made without knowing whether such investments will result in products our customers will accept. Our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain meaningful customer acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing new products or product enhancements, or those of companies we may acquire, to the market; our failure to accurately predict market demand or customer preferences; defects, errors or failures in product design or performance; negative publicity about product performance or effectiveness; introduction of competing products (or the anticipation thereof) by other market participants; 18 Table of Contents poor business conditions for our customers or poor general macroeconomic conditions; the perceived value of our products or product enhancements relative to their cost; and changing regulatory requirements adversely affecting the products we offer. There is no assurance we will successfully identify new opportunities, develop and bring new products to market on a timely basis, or products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance by our customers, or if our new products do not result in increased sales or subscriptions, our competitive position will be impaired, our anticipated revenue growth may not be achieved and the negative impact on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the upfront technology and development, marketing and advertising and other expenses we may incur in connection with the new product or enhancement. Our brand is integral to our success. If we fail to protect or promote our brand, our business and competitive position may be harmed. Protecting and maintaining awareness of our brand is important to our success, particularly as we seek to attract new customers globally. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, substantial resources to increase our brand awareness, both generally and in specific geographies and to specific customer groups, such as Web Pros. There can be no assurance that our brand development strategies will enhance the recognition of our brand or lead to increased sales. Furthermore, our international branding efforts may prove unsuccessful due to language barriers and cultural differences. If our efforts to protect and promote our brand are not successful, our operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, even if our brand recognition and loyalty increases, our revenue may not increase at a level commensurate with our marketing spend. A network attack, a security breach or other data security incident could delay or interrupt service to our customers, harm our reputation or subject us to significant liability. Our operations depend on our ability to protect our network and systems against interruption or damage from unauthorized entry, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other security threats beyond our control. We regularly experience distributed denial of service (DDOS) attacks by hackers aimed at disrupting service to our customers and attempts to place illegal or abusive content on our or our customers' websites, and we may be subject to DDOS attacks or content abuse in the future. Our response to such DDOS attacks may be insufficient to protect our network and systems, especially as such attacks increase in size (such as the DYN attack in October 2016). In addition, there has been an increase in the number of malicious software attacks in the technology industry, including malware and ransomware. In addition, from time to time, activities of our customers or other parties may cause us to suspend or terminate customer accounts. We have suspended and terminated, and will in the future suspend or terminate, a customer's use of our products when their activities on their site breach our terms of service (for example, phishing or resource misuse), interfere with or harm other customers' websites sharing the same resources or otherwise violate applicable law. We may also suspend or terminate a customer's website if it is repeatedly targeted by DDOS or other attacks disrupting other customers' websites or servers or otherwise impacts our infrastructure. We cannot guarantee our backup systems, regular data backups, security protocols, network protection mechanisms and other procedures currently in place, or that may be in place in the future, will be adequate to prevent or remedy network and service interruption, system failure, damage to one or more of our systems, data loss, security breaches or other data security incidents. Also, our products are cloud-based, and the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers has been increasing as our business has grown. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, worms, other malicious software programs, illegal or abusive content or similar disruptive problems caused by our customers, employees, consultants or other Internet users who attempt to invade or disrupt public and private data networks or to improperly access, use or obtain data. Any actual or perceived breach of our security, or any other data security incident, could damage our reputation and brand, expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, subject us to regulatory or other government inquiries or investigations, require us to expend significant capital and other resources to alleviate problems caused by the breach, and deter customers from using our products, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. If the security of the confidential information or personally identifiable information we maintain, including that of our customers and the visitors to our customers' websites stored in our systems, is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be harmed and we may be exposed to liability. Our business involves the storage and transmission of confidential information, including personally identifiable information. In addition, as nearly all of our products are cloud-based, the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers (including personally identifiable information and other potentially sensitive information) has been increasing. We take 19 Table of Contents measures intended to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the personal information and other sensitive information, including payment card information, we collect, store or transmit, but cannot guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts. If third parties succeed in penetrating our security measures or those of our vendors and partners, or in otherwise accessing or obtaining without authorization the payment card information or other sensitive or confidential information we or our vendors and partners maintain, we could be subject to liability, loss of business, litigation, government investigations or other losses. Hackers or individuals who attempt to breach our security measures or those of our vendors and partners could, if successful, cause the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, or loss of personally identifiable information or other confidential information, including payment card information, suspend our web-hosting operations or cause malfunctions or interruptions in our networks. If we or our partners experience any breaches of our security measures or sabotage, or otherwise suffer unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, personally identifiable information or other confidential information, including payment card information, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or address these problems. We may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or other similar actors in a timely manner, or at all. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are launched against a target, we and our vendors and partners may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Advances in computer capabilities, discoveries of new weaknesses and other developments with software generally used by the Internet community, such as the Heartbleed vulnerability, which is a vulnerability in Open Secure Sockets Layer (Open SSL) library or the Shellshock vulnerability in the Linux Bash shell, also increase the risk we, or our customers using our servers, will suffer a security breach. Our partners and we may also suffer security breaches or unauthorized access to personally identifiable information and other confidential information, including payment card information, due to employee error, rogue employee activity, unauthorized access by third parties acting with malicious intent or who commit an inadvertent mistake or social engineering. If a breach of our security or other data security incident occurs or is perceived to have occurred, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and our reputation could be harmed and we could lose current and potential customers. Security breaches or other unauthorized access to personally identifiable information and other confidential information, including payment card information, could result in claims against us for unauthorized purchases with payment card information, identity theft or other similar fraud claims as well as for other misuses of personally identifiable information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Moreover, these claims could cause us to incur penalties from payment card associations (including those resulting from our failure to adhere to industry data security standards), termination by payment card associations of our ability to accept credit or debit card payments, litigation and adverse publicity, and regulatory or other government inquiries or investigations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches and other data security incidents. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of cloud-based products we offer and operate in more countries. We are exposed to the risk of system failures and capacity constraints. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, system failures and outages disrupting the operation of our websites or our products such as web-hosting and email, or the availability of our Customer Care operations. For example, certain of our customers experienced a service outage in September 2012, which led to our granting of $10.4 million of service disruption credits to certain customers. Our revenue depends in large part on the volume of traffic to our websites, the number of customers whose websites we host on our servers and the availability of our Customer Care operations. Accordingly, the performance, reliability and availability of our websites and servers for our corporate operations and infrastructure, as well as in the delivery of products to customers, are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers. We are continually working to expand and enhance our website features, technology and network infrastructure and other technologies to accommodate substantial increases in the volume of traffic on our godaddy.com and affiliated websites, the number of customer websites we host and our overall total customers. We may be unsuccessful in these efforts, or we may be unable to project accurately the rate or timing of these increases. In the future, we may be required to allocate resources, including spending substantial amounts, to build, purchase or lease data centers and equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure in order to handle increased customer traffic, as well as increased traffic to customer websites we host. We cannot predict whether we will be able to add network capacity from third-party suppliers or otherwise as we require it. In addition, our network or our suppliers' networks might be unable to achieve or maintain data transmission capacity high enough to process orders or download data effectively in a timely manner. Our failure, or our suppliers' failure, to achieve or maintain high data transmission capacity could significantly reduce consumer demand for our products. Such reduced demand and resulting loss of traffic, cost increases, or failure to accommodate new technologies could harm our business, revenue and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Our systems, including those of our data centers and Customer Care operations, are also vulnerable to damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, physical and electronic break-ins and similar events. The property and business interruption insurance coverage we carry may not be adequate to compensate us fully for losses that may occur. Evolving technologies and resulting changes in customer behavior or customer practices may impact the value of and demand for domain names. Historically, Internet users would typically navigate to a website by directly typing its domain name into a web browser or navigation bar. The domain name serves as a branded, unique identifier not unlike a phone number or email address. People now use multiple methods in addition to direct navigation to access websites. For example, people increasingly use search engines to find and access websites as an alternative to typing a website address directly into a web browser navigation bar. People are also using social networking and microblogging sites more frequently to find and access websites. Further, as people continue to access the Internet more frequently through applications on mobile devices, domain names may become less prominent and their value may decline. These evolving technologies and changes in customer behavior may have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. We rely on our marketing efforts and channels to promote our brand and acquire new customers. These efforts may require significant expense and may not be successful or cost-effective. We use a variety of marketing channels to promote our brand, including online keyword search, sponsorships and celebrity endorsements, television, radio and print advertising, email and social media marketing. If we lose access to one or more of these channels, such as online keyword search, because the costs of advertising become prohibitively expensive or for other reasons, we may become unable to promote our brand effectively, which could limit our ability to grow our business. Further, if our marketing activities fail to generate traffic to our website, attract customers and lead to new and renewal sales of our subscriptions at the levels we anticipate, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance our marketing efforts will succeed or be cost-efficient, and if our customer acquisition costs increase, our business, operating results and financial performance could be adversely affected. Our ability to increase sales of our products is highly dependent on the quality of our Customer Care. Our failure to provide high-quality Customer Care would have an adverse effect on our business, brand and operating results. Our Customer Care team has historically contributed significantly to our total bookings. In each of 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , at least 23% of our total bookings were generated from the sale of product subscriptions by our Customer Care team. The majority of our current offerings are designed for customers who often self-identify as having limited to no technology skills. Our customers depend on our Customer Care to assist them as they create, manage and grow their digital identities. After launching their sites and leveraging our product offerings, customers depend on our Customer Care team to quickly resolve any issues relating to those offerings. Further, as we continue to broaden our portfolio of solutions, increase the size of our customer base and increase the size of our solution deployments within our customers' IT infrastructure, we must continue to adapt our customer support organization to ensure our customers continue to receive the high level of customer service which they have come to expect. Notwithstanding our commitment to Customer Care, our customers will occasionally encounter interruptions in service and other technical challenges and it is therefore critical we are there to provide ongoing, high-quality support to help our customers and ensure high renewal rates and cross-selling of our products. Additionally, we focus on Web Pros and continue to expand into non-U.S. markets. We must continue to refine our efforts in Customer Care so we can adequately serve these customer groups as we expand. If we do not provide effective ongoing Customer Care, our ability to sell our products to new and existing customers could be harmed, our subscription renewal rates may decline and our reputation may suffer, any of which could adversely affect our business, reputation and operating results. We face significant competition for our products in the domain name registration and web-hosting markets and other markets in which we compete, which we expect will continue to intensify, and we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position or market share. We provide cloud-based solutions enabling individuals, businesses and organizations to establish an online presence, connect with customers and manage their ventures. The market for these solutions is highly fragmented and competitive. These solutions are also rapidly evolving, creating opportunity for new competitors to enter the market with point-solution products or address specific segments of the market. In some instances, we have commercial partnerships with companies with which we also 21 Table of Contents compete. Given our broad product portfolio, we compete with niche point-solution products and broader solution providers. Our competitors include providers of domain registration services, web-hosting solutions, website creation and management solutions, e-commerce enablement providers, cloud computing service and online security providers, alternative web presence and marketing solutions providers and providers of productivity tools such as business-class email. We expect competition to increase in the future from competitors in the domain and hosting and presence markets, such as Endurance, United Internet, Web.com and Rightside, as well as competition from companies such as Amazon, Google and Microsoft, all of which are providers of web-hosting and other cloud-based services and have recently entered the domain name registration business as upstream registries, and eBay and Facebook, both of which offer robust Internet marketing platforms. In addition, we face competition in the website building market from competitors outside of the domain and hosting markets, such as Wix and Weebly. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, more brand recognition and consumer awareness, more diversified product offerings, greater international scope and larger customer bases than we do, and we may therefore not be able to effectively compete with them. If these competitors and potential competitors decide to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products in the markets in which we compete, or if the products offered by these companies are more attractive to or better meet the evolving needs of our customers, our market share, growth prospects and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, in an attempt to gain market share, competitors may offer aggressive price discounts or alternative pricing models on the products they offer, such as so-called "freemium" pricing in which a basic offering is provided for free with advanced features provided for a fee, or increase commissions paid to their referral sources. As a result, increased competition could result in lower sales, price reductions, reduced margins and the loss of market share. Furthermore, conditions in our market could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements, partnering by our competitors or continuing market consolidation. Innovative new start-up companies and large competitors making significant investments in technology and development may invent similar or superior products and technologies competing with our products and technology. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their ability to compete. The continued entry of competitors into the domain name registration and web-hosting markets, and the rapid growth of some competitors that have already entered each market, may make it difficult for us to maintain our market position. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to provide a better product than our competitors at a competitive price and supported by superior Customer Care. To remain competitive, we may be required to make substantial additional investments in research, development, marketing and sales in order to respond to competition, and there can be no assurance that these investments will achieve any returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. The future growth of our business depends in significant part on increasing our international bookings. Our recent and continuing international expansion efforts subject us to additional risks. Bookings outside of the U.S. represented approximately 28% , 26% and 25% of our totals for 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. In 2012, we began the process of localizing our products in numerous markets, languages and currencies, expanding our systems to accept payments in forms common outside of the U.S., focusing our marketing efforts in numerous non-U.S. geographies, tailoring our Customer Care offerings to serve these markets, expanding our infrastructure in various non-U.S. locations and establishing Customer Care operations in overseas locations. We intend to continue our international expansion efforts, including through our acquisition of HEG. As a result, we must continue to hire and train experienced personnel to staff and manage our international expansion. Our international expansion efforts may be slow or unsuccessful to the extent we experience difficulties in recruiting, training, managing and retaining qualified personnel with international experience, language skills and cultural competencies in the geographic markets we target. Furthermore, as we continue to expand internationally, it may prove difficult to maintain our corporate culture, which we believe has been critical to our success. In addition, we have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions. Conducting and expanding international operations subjects us to new risks we have not generally faced in the U.S., including the following: management, communication and integration problems resulting from language barriers, cultural differences and geographic dispersion of our customers and personnel; language translation of, and associated Customer Care support for, our products; compliance with foreign laws, including laws regarding online disclaimers, advertising, liability of online service providers for activities of customers especially with respect to hosted content and more stringent laws in foreign jurisdictions relating to consumer privacy and protection of data collected from individuals and other third parties; 22 Table of Contents accreditation and other regulatory requirements to do business and to provide domain name registration, web-hosting and other products in foreign jurisdictions; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, including our universal terms of service and other agreements; increased expenses incurred in establishing and maintaining office space and equipment for our international operations; greater costs and expenses associated with international marketing and operations; greater risk of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs and tax laws and treaties; different or lesser degrees of protection for our or our customers' intellectual property and free speech rights in certain markets; increased exposure to foreign currency risks; increased risk of a failure of employees to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including export and antitrust regulations, anti-bribery regulations and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices; heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies; and the potential for political, social or economic unrest, terrorism, hostilities or war; and multiple and possibly overlapping tax regimes. In addition, the expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and financial resources. In particular, we have invested, and intend to continue to invest, in product marketing, infrastructure and personnel to support our international expansion efforts. These increased marketing costs may increase our cost of acquiring international customers, which may delay our ability to achieve profitability or reduce our profitability in the future. We may also face pressure to lower our prices in order to compete in emerging markets, which could adversely affect revenue derived from our international operations. These and other factors associated with our international operations could impair our growth prospects and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Mobile devices are increasingly being used to access the Internet, and our cloud-based and mobile support products may not operate or be as effective when accessed through these devices, which could harm our business. We offer our products across a variety of operating systems and through the Internet. Historically, we designed our web-based products for use on a desktop or laptop computer; however, mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets, are increasingly being used as the primary means for accessing the Internet and conducting e-commerce. We are dependent on the interoperability of our products with third-party mobile devices and mobile operating systems, as well as web browsers we do not control. Any changes in such devices, systems or web browsers degrading the functionality of our products or giving preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect usage of our products. In the event our customers have difficulty accessing and using our products on mobile devices, our customer growth, business and operating results could be adversely affected. We have made significant investments in recent periods to support our growth strategy. These investments may not succeed. If we do not effectively manage future growth, our operating results will be adversely affected. We continue to increase the breadth and scope of our product offerings and operations. To support future growth, we must continue to improve our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and ability to effectively manage headcount, capital and processes. We must also continue to increase the productivity of our existing employees and hire, train and manage new employees while maintaining our unique corporate culture. If we fail to manage our growth or change in a manner failing to preserve the key aspects of our corporate culture, the quality of our platform, products and Customer Care may suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to retain and attract customers and employees. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses relating to our investments in international operations and infrastructure, such as the expansion of our offerings and marketing presence in India, Europe, Latin America and Asia; our targeted marketing spending to attract new customer groups, such as Web Pros and customers in non-U.S. markets; and investments in software systems and additional data center resources to keep pace with the growth of our cloud infrastructure and cloud-based product offerings. We have made significant investments in product development, corporate infrastructure and 23 Table of Contents technology and development, and intend to continue investing in the development of our products and infrastructure and our marketing and Customer Care teams. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower or may develop more slowly than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth over the last several years, which has the potential to strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. The scalability and flexibility of our infrastructure depends on the functionality and bandwidth of our data centers, peering sites and servers. The significant growth in our total customers and the increase in the number of transactions we process have increased the amount of our stored customer data. Any loss of data or disruption in our ability to provide our product offerings due to disruptions in our infrastructure or services could result in harm to our brand or reputation. Moreover, as our customer base continues to grow and uses our platform for more complicated tasks, we will need to devote additional resources to improve our infrastructure and continue to enhance its scalability and security. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our operating and business results. In January 2016, we selected a new enterprise resource planning system. During the fourth quarter of 2016, we completed the human capital management portion of our system implementation. We expect to begin the system implementation of the financial portion in 2017, continuing into early 2018. As we plan for and implement a new system, we may experience difficulties in managing our existing systems and processes, which could disrupt our operations and the management of our finances. Our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast and report our results. We may acquire other businesses or talent, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past made, and may in the future make, acquisitions or investments in companies, talent, products and technologies we believe will complement our business and address the needs of our customers. With respect to our recent acquisitions, such as FreedomVoice and ManageWP, and our proposed acquisition of HEG, we cannot ensure we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired products, talent and technology or benefit from increased subscriptions and revenue. For example, we may be unsuccessful in capturing the Web Pro market or in helping our customers attract new customers to their businesses from sites like Google, Yahoo!, Facebook and Yelp. In the future, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may be unsuccessful in achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and may fail to integrate the acquired business and operations effectively. In addition, any future acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by our customers, investors and industry analysts. We may have to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or the value of our Class A common stock. Equity issuances in connection with potential future acquisitions may also result in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, our future operating results may be impacted by performance earn-outs or contingent bonuses. Furthermore, acquisitions may involve contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional equity-based compensation expense, adjustments for fair value of deferred revenue, the recording and subsequent amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets and, if unsuccessful, impairment charges resulting from the write-off of goodwill or other intangible assets associated with the acquisition, any of which could negatively impact our future results of operations. In addition, if we are unsuccessful at integrating the operations or technologies associated with such acquisitions, into our company, the revenue and operating results of the combined company could be adversely affected. We may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, including issues related to intellectual property, solution quality or architecture, regulatory compliance practices and customer or sales channel issues. Any integration process may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the companies, solutions, technologies, accounting systems, personnel or operations we acquire, particularly if the key personnel are geographically dispersed or choose not to work for us. We may also experience difficulty in effectively integrating or preserving the different cultures and practices of the companies we acquire. Acquisitions may also disrupt our core business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our business. We may not 24 Table of Contents successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology, intellectual property or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. If we fail to properly evaluate, execute or integrate acquisitions or investments, the anticipated benefits may not be realized, we may be exposed to unknown or unanticipated liabilities, and our business and prospects could be harmed. If the rate of growth of small businesses and ventures is significantly lower than our estimates or if demand for our products does not meet expectations, our ability to generate revenue and meet our financial targets could be adversely affected. Although we expect continued demand from small businesses and ventures for our products, it is possible the rate of growth may not meet our expectations, or the market may not grow, either of which would adversely affect our business. Our expectations for future revenue growth are based in part on assumptions reflecting our industry knowledge and experience serving small businesses and ventures, as well as our assumptions regarding demographic shifts, growth in the availability and capacity of Internet infrastructure internationally and the general economic climate. If any of these assumptions proves to be inaccurate, our revenue growth could be significantly lower than expected. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to offer an integrated and comprehensive suite of products enabling our diverse base of customers to start, grow and run their businesses. The success of our domains, hosting, presence and business applications offerings is predicated on the assumption that an online presence is, and will continue to be, an important factor in our customers' abilities to establish, expand and manage their businesses quickly, easily and affordably. If we are incorrect in this assumption, for example due to the introduction of a new technology or industry standard superseding the importance of an online presence or renders our existing or future products obsolete, then our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers could be adversely affected, which could harm our ability to generate revenue and meet our financial targets. We rely on search engines to attract a meaningful portion of our customers. If search engines change their search algorithms or policies regarding advertising, increase their pricing or suffer problems, our ability to attract new customers may be impaired. Many of our customers locate our website and products through Internet search engines such as Google, Yahoo! and Bing. The prominence of our website in response to search inquiries is a critical factor in attracting potential customers to our websites. If we are listed less prominently or fail to appear in search results for any reason, visits to our websites by customers and potential customers could decline significantly, and we may not be able to replace this traffic. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search results. If search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, our websites may appear less prominently or not at all in search results, which could result in reduced traffic to our websites. Additionally, if the costs of search engine marketing services, such as Google AdWords, increase, we may incur additional marketing expenses or be required to allocate a larger portion of our marketing spend to this channel and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, competitors may in the future bid on our brand names and other search terms we use to drive traffic to our websites. Such actions could increase our advertising costs and result in decreased traffic to our websites. In addition, search engines or social networking sites may change their advertising policies from time to time. If any change to these policies delays or prevents us from advertising through these channels, it could result in reduced traffic to our website and sales of our subscriptions. If we are unable to increase sales of our products to Web Pros, our business, growth prospects and operating results will be adversely affected. Historically, our business has been focused on serving individuals who are thinking about starting a business to small businesses and ventures that are up and running but need help growing and expanding their digital capabilities. As a result, our products were less suited to the needs of more technically skilled individuals or web developers and other Web Pros. Furthermore, we did not target Web Pros with our marketing activities or provide Customer Care resources tailored to this customer group. We continue to focus on Web Pros to increase our total customers and grow our revenue. Our recent acquisitions have further expanded our Web Pro offerings by providing additional features such as Managed WordPress, bolstered our Web Pro-focused Customer Care team and extended our reach into the Web Pro community. We are also working to tailor our marketing efforts to, and build dedicated Customer Care resources for, Web Pros. If we are unable to develop products and provide Customer Care addressing the needs of Web Pros, successfully target them with our marketing efforts or successfully leverage the Media Temple brand to capture a greater portion of the Web Pros market, our business, growth prospects and operating results could be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents We maintain a network of different types of partners, some of which create integrations with our products. For example, we partnered with Microsoft Corporation to offer Office 365 email and other productivity tools to our customers and SiteLock, LLC (SiteLock) to offer website security products to our customers, and we have worked to make certain of our products interoperable with services such as Yelp. We have invested and will continue to invest in partner programs to provide new product offerings to our customers and help us attract additional customers. However, our relationships with our partners may not be as successful in generating new customers as we anticipate, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our total customers. Further, these programs could require substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. We also rely on some of our partners to create integrations with third-party applications and platforms used by our customers, such as Office 365 and SiteLock. If our partners fail to create such integrations, or if they change the features of their applications or alter the terms governing use of their applications in an adverse manner, demand for our products could decrease, which would harm our business and operating results. If we are unable to maintain our contractual relationships with existing partners or establish new contractual relationships with potential partners, we may not be able to offer the products and related functionality our customers expect, and we may experience delays and increased costs in adding customers and may lose customers, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Any ineffectiveness of our partner programs could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our quarterly and annual operating results may be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below investor or analyst expectations. Our quarterly and annual operating results and key metrics have varied from period to period in the past, and we expect they may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; the timing and success of introductions of new products; changes in the growth rate of small businesses and ventures; changes in renewal rates for our subscriptions and our ability to sell additional products to existing customers; refunds to our customers could be higher than expected; the timing of revenue recognition relative to the recording of the related expense; any negative publicity or other actions which harm our brand; the timing of our marketing expenditures; the mix of products sold; our ability to maintain a high level of personalized Customer Care and resulting customer satisfaction; competition in the market for our products; our ability to expand internationally; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards; systems, data center and Internet failures, breaches and service interruptions; changes in U.S. or foreign regulations that could impact one or more of our product offerings or changes to regulatory bodies, such as ICANN, as well as increased regulation by governments or multi-governmental organizations, such as the International Telecommunications Union, a specialized agency of the United Nations or the European Union, that could affect our business and our industry; a delay in the authorization of new TLDs by ICANN or our ability to successfully on-board new TLDs which would impact the breadth of our customer offerings; shortcomings in, or misinterpretations of, our metrics and data which cause us to fail to anticipate or identify market trends; terminations of, disputes with, or material changes to our relationships with third-party partners, including referral sources, product partners and payment processors; reductions in the selling prices for our products; 26 Table of Contents timing of the completion of our acquisition of HEG; costs and integration issues associated with our acquisition of HEG and any other acquisitions we may make; changes in legislation affecting our collection of indirect taxes both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions; recording higher than expected domain portfolio assets resulting from an increased rate of failed sales on our aftermarket platform for transactions in which we act as the primary obligor; timing of expenses and tax distributions; threatened or actual litigation; and loss of key employees. Any one of the factors above, or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above, may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results, including fluctuations in our key financial and operating metrics, our ability to forecast those results and our ability to achieve those forecasts. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our revenue, bookings or operating results expectations or those of securities analysts or investors for any period. In addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue and bookings trends. Accordingly, in the event of revenue or bookings shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on operating results in the short term. We may release guidance in our quarterly earnings conference calls, quarterly earnings releases, or otherwise, based on predictions of management, which are necessarily speculative in nature. Our guidance may vary materially from actual results for a variety of reasons, including that our cash generation may be uneven across quarters. If our revenue, bookings or operating results, or the rate of growth of our revenue, bookings or operating results, fall below the expectations of our investors or financial analysts, or below any forecasts or guidance we may provide to the market, or if the forecasts we provide to the market are below the expectations of analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Such a stock price decline could occur even when we have met our own or other publicly stated revenue, bookings or earnings forecasts. Our failure to meet our own or other publicly stated revenue, bookings or earnings forecasts, or even when we meet our own forecasts but fall short of analyst or investor expectations, could cause our stock price to decline and expose us to costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. Such litigation against us could impose substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. We have a history of operating losses and may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. We had net losses of $22 million , $120 million and $143 million , in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. While we have experienced revenue growth over these same periods, we may not be able to sustain or increase our growth or achieve profitability in the future or on a consistent basis. We have incurred substantial expenses and expended significant resources upfront to market, promote and sell our products. We also expect to continue to invest for future growth. In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses as a public company. As a result of our increased expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenue to achieve future profitability. Achieving profitability will require us to increase revenues, manage our cost structure and avoid significant liabilities. Revenue growth may slow or decline, or we may incur significant losses in the future for a number of possible reasons, including general macroeconomic conditions, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of the markets in which we operate, or if we fail for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If these losses exceed our expectations or our revenue growth expectations are not met in future periods, our financial performance will be harmed, and our stock price could be volatile or decline. We may need additional equity, debt or other financing in the future, which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms, or at all, and any additional financing may result in restrictions on our operations or substantial dilution to our stockholders. We may need to raise funds in the future, for example, to develop new technologies, expand our business, respond to competitive pressures and make acquisitions. We may try to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships or other arrangements. Although our credit agreement limits our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and may be amended with the consent of our lenders. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may incur substantial additional debt. 27 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain debt or equity funding will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, interest rates, our operating performance, our credit rating and investor interest. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies, foregoing acquisitions or reducing our product development efforts. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or equity-linked securities, then existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these new securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our Class A common stock. In addition, any such issuance could subject us to restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Further, to the extent we incur additional indebtedness or such other obligations, the risks associated with our substantial leverage described elsewhere in this 10-K, including our possible inability to service our debt, would increase. Changes in accounting principles, or interpretations thereof, may cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and adversely affect our operating results and financial statements going forward. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and the related notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to create and interpret appropriate accounting principles. Accounting rules and regulations are continually changing in ways that could materially impact our financial statements, and a change in the current accounting principles could have a significant effect on our reported results or may retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Additionally, the adoption of new or revised accounting principles may require us to make significant changes to our systems, processes and controls. For example, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as amended , will supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance. While we continue to assess the potential impacts of the new standard, we do not know or cannot reasonably estimate quantitative information related to its impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures at this time. We cannot predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles or our accounting policies on our financial statements going forward, which could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. In addition, if we were to change our critical accounting estimates as a result of new accounting standards in the future, our financial position or results of operations could be significantly affected. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements. Because we are generally required to recognize revenue for our products over the term of the applicable agreement, changes in our sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. As described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, we generally recognize revenue from our customers ratably over the respective terms of their subscriptions in accordance with GAAP. Our subscription terms are typically one year, but can range from monthly terms to multi-annual terms of up to 10 years depending on the product. Accordingly, increases in sales during a particular period do not translate into immediate, proportional increases in revenue during such period, and a substantial portion of the revenue we recognize during a quarter is derived from deferred revenue from customer subscriptions we entered into during previous quarters. As a result, our margins may suffer despite substantial sales activity during a particular period, since GAAP does not permit us to recognize all of the revenue from our sales immediately. Conversely, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter may not be reflected in our revenue for that quarter and the existence of substantial deferred revenue may prevent deteriorating sales activity from becoming immediately observable in our consolidated statement of operations. In addition, we may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected bookings shortfall, and any significant shortfall in bookings relative to planned expenditures could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our failure to properly register or maintain our customers' domain names could subject us to additional expenses, claims of loss or negative publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business. System and process failures related to our domain name registration product may result in inaccurate and incomplete information in our domain name database. Despite testing, system and process failures may remain undetected or unknown, which could result in compromised customer data, loss of or delay in revenues, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation or increased product costs, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, the requirements for securing and renewing domain names vary from registry to registry and are subject to change. We cannot guarantee we will be able to readily adopt and comply with the various registry requirements. Our failure or inability to properly register or maintain our customers' domain names, even if we are not at fault, might result in significant expenses and subject us to claims of loss or to negative publicity, which could harm our business, brand and operating results. 28 Table of Contents We rely heavily on the reliability, security and performance of our internally developed systems and operations. Any difficulties in maintaining these systems may result in damage to our brand, service interruptions, decreased customer service or increased expenditures. The reliability and continuous availability of the software, hardware and workflow processes underlying our internal systems, networks and infrastructure and the ability to deliver our products are critical to our business, and any interruptions resulting in our inability to timely deliver our products or Customer Care, or materially impacting the efficiency or cost with which we provide our products and Customer Care, would harm our brand, profitability and ability to conduct business. In addition, many of the software and other systems we currently use will need to be enhanced over time or replaced with equivalent commercial products or services, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Enhancing or replacing our systems, networks or infrastructure could entail considerable effort and expense. If we fail to develop and execute reliable policies, procedures and tools to operate our systems, networks or infrastructure, we could face a substantial decrease in workflow efficiency and increased costs, as well as a decline in our revenue. We rely on a limited number of data centers to deliver most of our products. If we are unable to renew our data center agreements on favorable terms, or at all, our operating margins and profitability could be adversely affected and our business could be harmed. We own one of our data centers and lease our remaining data center capacity from wholesale providers. We occupy our leased data center capacity pursuant to co-location service agreements with third-party data center facilities, which have built and maintain the co-located data centers for us and other parties. We currently serve all our customers from our GoDaddy-owned, Arizona-based data center as well as seven domestic and four international co-located data center facilities located in Arizona, California, Virginia, New York, the Netherlands and Singapore. Although we own the servers in these co-located data centers and engineer and architect the systems upon which our platforms run, we do not control the operation of these facilities, and we depend on the operators of these facilities to ensure their proper security and maintenance. Despite precautions taken at our data centers, these facilities may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from break-ins, computer viruses, DDOS or other cyber-attacks, acts of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, power loss, telecommunications failures, fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes and similar events. The occurrence of any of these events or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in loss of data (including personal or payment card information), lengthy interruptions in the availability of our services and harm to our reputation and brand. While we have disaster recovery arrangements in place, they have been tested in only very limited circumstances and not during any large-scale or prolonged disasters or similar events. The terms of our existing co-located data center agreements vary in length and expire on various dates through 2026 . Only some of our agreements with our co-located data centers provide us with options to renew under negotiated terms. We also have agreements with other critical infrastructure vendors who provide all of our facilities, including our data centers, with bandwidth, fiber optics and electrical power. None of these infrastructure vendors are under any obligation to continue to provide these services after the expiration of their respective agreements with us, nor are they obligated to renew the terms of those agreements. Our existing co-located data center agreements may not provide us with adequate time to transfer operations to a new facility in the event of early termination. If we were required to move our equipment to a new facility without adequate time to plan and prepare for such migration, we would face significant challenges due to the technical complexity, risk and high costs of the relocation. Any such migration could result in significant costs for us and may result in data loss and significant downtime for a significant number of our customers which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose current and potential customers and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Undetected or unknown defects in our products could harm our business and future operating results. The products we offer or develop, including our proprietary technology and technology provided by third parties, could contain undetected defects or errors. For example, a small number of recently issued SSL certificates failed due to a software bug inadvertently introduced during a routine code change. We revoked the SSL certificates potentially affected by the bug as a precautionary matter, remedied the bug, contacted affected customers, and initiated a new certificate request on their behalf at no additional cost. The performance of our products could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as, more broadly, on Internet users and consumers and third-party applications and services utilizing our solutions. These adverse effects, defects and errors, and other performance problems relating to our products could result in legal claims against us that harm our business and damage our reputation. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in 29 Table of Contents compromised customer data, loss of or delay in revenues, an increase in our annual refund rate, which has ranged from 6.6% to 7.2% of total bookings from 2014 to 2016 , loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation or brand and increased costs. In addition, while our terms of service specifically disclaim certain warranties, and contain limitations on our liability, courts may still hold us liable for such claims if asserted against us. Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage our reputation and deter existing and new customers from using our products. From time to time, concerns have been expressed about whether our products or processes compromise the privacy of customers and others. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personally identifiable information, including payment card information, or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, as nearly all of our products are cloud-based, the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers (including personally identifiable information) has been increasing. Any systems failure or compromise of our security resulting in the release of our users' or customers' data could seriously limit the adoption of our product offerings, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of cloud-based products we offer and operate in more countries. We are subject to privacy and data protection laws and regulations as well as contractual privacy and data protection obligations. Our failure to comply with these or any future laws, regulations or obligations could subject us to sanctions and damages and could harm our reputation and business. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including regulation by various federal government agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Federal Communications Commission, and state and local agencies. We collect personally identifiable information, including payment card information, and other data from our current and prospective customers, website users and employees. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on, or requirements regarding, the collection, distribution, use, security and storage of personally identifiable information of individuals, including payment card information, and the FTC and many state attorneys general are applying federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards on the online collection, use and dissemination of data. Self-regulatory obligations, other industry standards, policies, and other legal obligations may apply to our collection, distribution, use, security or storage of personally identifiable information or other data relating to individuals, including payment card information. These obligations may be interpreted and applied in an inconsistent manner from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with one another, other regulatory requirements or our internal practices. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with U.S., E.U. or other foreign privacy or security laws, policies, industry standards or legal obligations or any security incident resulting in the unauthorized access to, or acquisition, release or transfer of, personally identifiable information or other data relating to our customers, employees and others, including payment card information, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties or adverse publicity and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. We expect there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the U.S., the European Union and other jurisdictions, and we cannot yet determine the impact such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our business. Future laws, regulations, standards and other obligations could impair our ability to collect or use information we utilize to provide targeted advertising to our customers, thereby impairing our ability to maintain and grow our total customers and increase revenue. Future restrictions on the collection, use, sharing or disclosure of our users' data or additional requirements for express or implied consent of users for the use and disclosure of such information could require us to modify our products, possibly in a material manner, and could limit our ability to develop new products and features. In particular, with regard to transfers of personal data, as such term is used in the 1995 EU Data Protection Directive and applicable European Union member state legislation, from our employees and European customers and users to the U.S., we historically have relied upon adherence to the U.S. Department of Commerce's Safe Harbor Privacy Principles and compliance with the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework agreed to by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European Union. The U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework, which established means for legitimizing the transfer of personal data by U.S. companies from the European Economic Area (the EEA) to the U.S., was invalidated in October 2015 by a decision of the European Court of Justice (the ECJ). In light of the ECJ's decision, we have engaged in a review of our business practices and recently self-certified under the U.S.-EU Privacy Shield, a replacement framework for the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework that was adopted in July 2016. The U.S.-EU Privacy Shield may be subject to legal challenge and may be modified or invalidated, and we may be unsuccessful in maintaining legitimate means for our transfer and receipt of personal data from the EEA. We may experience reluctance or 30 Table of Contents refusal by current or prospective European customers to use our products, and we may find it necessary or desirable to make further changes to our handling of personal data of EEA residents. The regulatory environment applicable to the handling of EEA residents' personal data, and our actions taken in response, may cause us to assume additional liabilities or incur additional costs, and could result in our business, operating results and financial condition being harmed. Additionally, we and our customers may face a risk of enforcement actions by data protection authorities in the EEA relating to personal data transfers to us and by us from the EEA. Any such enforcement actions could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, distract management and technical personnel and negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, several foreign countries and governmental bodies including the European Union and Canada, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personally identifiable information obtained from their residents, including payment card information, which are often more restrictive than those in the U.S. Laws and regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of personally identifiable information, including payment card information identifying, or which may be used to identify, an individual, such as names, email addresses and, in some jurisdictions, Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. Although we are working to comply with those laws and regulations applicable to us, these and other obligations may be modified and they may be interpreted in different ways by courts, and new laws and regulations may be enacted in the future. Within the European Union, legislators have approved the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new regulation that will become effective in May 2018 and, at that time, will supersede the 1995 European Union Data Protection Directive. The GDPR includes more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including payment card information, imposes significant penalties for non-compliance and has broader extra-territorial effect. As the GDPR is a regulation rather than a directive, it requires strict adoption by all EU member states, but permits those member states to enact supplemental requirements if they so choose. Further, following a referendum in June 2016 in which voters in the United Kingdom approved an exit from the EU, it is expected that the United Kingdom government will initiate a process to leave the EU. This has created uncertainty with regard to the future regulation of data protection in the United Kingdom. Any new laws, regulations, other legal obligations or industry standards, or any changed interpretation of existing laws, regulations or other standards may require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply with current or future laws, regulations, policies, legal obligations or industry standards, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations, fines or other liabilities, as well as negative publicity and a potential loss of business. Moreover, if future laws, regulations, other legal obligations or industry standards, or any changed interpretations of the foregoing limit our customers' ability to use and share personally identifiable information, including payment card information, or our ability to store, process and share such personally identifiable information or other data, demand for our products could decrease, our costs could increase, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Failure to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could substantially harm our business and operating results. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to protect and enforce our patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. We attempt to protect our intellectual property under patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, and through a combination of confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other methods, all of which offer only limited protection. As of December 31, 2016 , we had 193 issued patents in the U.S. covering various aspects of our product offerings. Additionally, as of December 31, 2016 , we had 186 pending U.S. patent applications and intend to file additional patent applications in the future. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. We may choose not to seek patent protection for certain innovations and may choose not to pursue patent protection in certain jurisdictions, and under the laws of certain jurisdictions, patents or others intellectual property may be unavailable or limited in scope. Furthermore, it is possible that our patent applications may not issue as granted patents, that the scope of our issued patents will be insufficient or not have the coverage originally sought, that our issued patents will not provide us with any competitive advantages, and that our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. In addition, issuance of a patent does not assure that we have an absolute right to practice the patented invention, or that we have the right to exclude others from practicing the claimed invention. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or to enforce our issued patents effectively. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology and confidential proprietary information, including trade secrets and know-how. Despite our efforts to protect the proprietary and confidential nature of such technology and information, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use 31 Table of Contents them. The contractual provisions in confidentiality agreements and other agreements we generally enter into with employees, consultants, partners, vendors and customers may not prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, products and intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the U.S. and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. We may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use or infringement of our products, technologies or intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2016 , we had 395 registered trademarks in 63 countries, including the GoDaddy logo and mark in all international markets in which we operate or intend to operate. We have also registered, or applied to register, the trademarks associated with several of our leading brands in the U.S. and in certain other countries. Competitors and others may have adopted, and in the future may adopt, tag lines or service or product names similar to ours, which could impede our ability to build our brands' identities and possibly lead to confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered and common law trademarks or trademarks incorporating variations of the terms or designs of one or more of our trademarks and opposition filings made when we apply to register our trademarks. From time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, distract management and technical personnel and negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. Any inability on our part to protect adequately our intellectual property may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are currently a party to intellectual property claims and litigation asserted by third parties, and may be subject to additional claims and litigation in the future, which could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and results of operations. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the U.S. and abroad involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies providing web-based and cloud-based products are increasingly bringing, and becoming subject to, suits alleging infringement of proprietary rights, particularly patent rights. The possibility of intellectual property infringement claims also may increase to the extent we face increasing competition and become increasingly visible. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights. In addition, our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may increase as a result of acquisitions we make or our use of software licensed from or hosted by third parties, as we have less visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired or licensed technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition or license. Many companies are devoting significant resources to obtaining patents that could affect many aspects of our business. This may prevent us from deterring patent infringement claims, and our competitors and others may now and in the future have larger and more mature patent portfolios than we have. We currently face, and expect to face in the future, claims and litigation by third parties that we infringe upon or misappropriate their intellectual property rights. Defending patent and other intellectual property claims and litigation is costly and can impose a significant burden on management and employees, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. In addition, plaintiffs may seek, and we may become subject to, preliminary or provisional rulings in the course of any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease offering certain of our products or features. We may decide to settle such lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. Similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. The terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease offering certain of our products or features or pay substantial amounts to the other party. In addition, we may have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third party's rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or discontinue offering certain products or features. The development of alternative non-infringing technology, products or features could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by intellectual property claims or litigation. 32 Table of Contents We are involved in numerous lawsuits, including putative class action lawsuits, that are expensive and time consuming and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to intellectual property claims, we are also involved in other types of litigation and claims, including employment, commercial and consumer protection claims. Plaintiffs in such current and future litigation matters often file such lawsuits on behalf of a putative class and typically claim substantial statutory damages and attorneys fees, and often seek changes to our products, features or business practices. As a result, although the results of any such current or future litigation, regardless of the underlying nature of the claims, cannot be predicted with certainty, the final outcome of any current or future claims or lawsuits we face could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any negative outcome from claims or litigation, including settlements, could result in payments of substantial monetary damages or fines, attorneys fees or undesirable changes to our products, features or business practices. Further, claims or litigation brought against our customers or business partners may subject us to indemnification obligations or obligations to refund fees to, and adversely affect our relationships with, our customers or business partners. Such indemnification or refund obligations or litigation judgments or settlements that result in the payment of substantial monetary damages, fines and attorneys fees may not be sufficiently covered by our insurance policies if at all. In addition, during the course of any litigation, regardless of its nature, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, preliminary rulings or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our Class A common stock. Regardless of whether any claims against us have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend, and can impose a significant burden on management and employees. Further, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential business or other proprietary information could be compromised by disclosure. Litigation to which we are currently a party, including putative class action lawsuits, or to which we may become a party in the future, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our use of open source technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We use open source software in our business, including in our products. It is possible some such open source software is governed by licenses containing requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in certain manners. Although we monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, we cannot be certain all open source software is reviewed prior to use in our proprietary software, that programmers working for us have not incorporated open source software into our proprietary software, or that they will not do so in the future. Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or to make it available under an open source license could be harmful to our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts. As a result, there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such an event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make our proprietary code generally available in source code form, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business depends on our customers' continued and unimpeded access to the Internet and the development and maintenance of Internet infrastructure. Internet access providers may be able to block, degrade or charge for access to certain of our products, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of customers. Our products depend on the ability of our customers to access the Internet. Currently, this access is provided by companies having significant market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and government-owned service providers. The adoption of any laws or regulations adversely affecting the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including laws impacting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our products and increase our operating costs. The legislative and regulatory landscape regarding the regulation of the Internet and, in particular, Internet neutrality, in the U.S. are subject to uncertainty. The Federal Communications Commission passed Open Internet rules in February 2015, effective in June 2015, generally providing for 33 Table of Contents Internet neutrality with respect to fixed and mobile broadband Internet service, but they have been challenged in federal court. Any changes in the legislative and regulatory landscape regarding Internet neutrality, or otherwise regarding the regulation of the Internet, could harm our business. For example, to the extent any laws, regulations or rulings permit Internet service providers to charge some users higher rates than others for the delivery of their content, Internet service providers could attempt to use such law, regulation or ruling to impose higher fees or deliver our content with less speed, reliability or otherwise on a non-neutral basis as compared to other market participants, and our business could be adversely impacted. Internationally, government regulation concerning the Internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be developing or non-existent. Within such a regulatory environment, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices impeding both our and our customers' domestic and international growth, increasing our costs or adversely affecting our business. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. We believe a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity, a customer-centric focus, collaboration and loyalty. Our corporate culture is central to our devoted Customer Care team which is a key component of the value we offer our customers. As we continue to evolve our business, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our corporate culture, which could limit our ability to innovate and operate effectively. Difficulty in preserving our corporate culture will be exacerbated as we continue to expand internationally, grow our employee base and expand our solutions. Any failure to preserve our culture could also negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, continue to perform at current levels or execute on our business strategy. Our business is exposed to risks associated with credit card and other online payment chargebacks and fraud. A majority of our revenue is processed through credit cards and other online payments. If our refunds or chargebacks increase, our processors could require us to create reserves, increase fees or terminate their contracts with us, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our failure to limit fraudulent transactions conducted on our websites, such as through the use of stolen credit card numbers, could also subject us to liability and adversely impact our reputation. Under credit card association rules, penalties may be imposed at the discretion of the association for inadequate fraud protection. Any such potential penalties would be imposed on our credit card processor by the association. Under our contracts with our payment processors, we are required to reimburse them for such penalties. However, we face the risk that we may fail to maintain an adequate level of fraud protection and that one or more credit card associations or other processors may, at any time, assess penalties against us or terminate our ability to accept credit card payments or other form of online payments from customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We could also incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to pay for our products if we fail to follow payment card industry data security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information. Although we believe we are in compliance with payment card industry data security standards and do not believe there has been a compromise of customer information, it is possible that at times either we or any of our acquired companies may not have been in full compliance with these standards. Accordingly, we could be fined, which could impact our financial condition, or certain of our products could be suspended, which would cause us to be unable to process payments using credit cards. If we are unable to accept credit card payments, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, we could be liable if there is a breach of the payment information we store. Online commerce and communications depend on the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to authenticate and secure the transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. However, we cannot ensure this technology will prevent breaches of the systems we use to protect customer payment data. Although we maintain network security insurance, we cannot be certain our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or insurance will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our partners also collect or possess information about our customers, and we may be subject to litigation or our reputation may be harmed if our partners fail to protect our customers' information or if they use it in a manner inconsistent with our policies and practices. Data breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues. Under our contracts with our processors, if there is unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, credit card information we store, we could be liable to the credit card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. 34 Table of Contents Activities of customers or the content of their websites could damage our reputation and brand or harm our business and financial results. As a provider of domain name registration and hosting and presence products, we may be subject to potential liability for the activities of our customers on or in connection with their domain names or websites or for the data they store on our servers. Although our terms of service prohibit illegal use of our products by our customers and permit us to take down or suspend websites or take other appropriate actions for illegal use, customers may nonetheless engage in prohibited activities or upload or store content with us in violation of applicable law or the customer's own policies, which could subject us to liability. Furthermore, our reputation and brand may be negatively impacted by the actions of customers that are deemed to be hostile, offensive or inappropriate. We do not proactively monitor or review the appropriateness of the domain names our customers register or the content of their websites, and we do not have control over customer activities. The safeguards we have in place may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our reputation and brand, especially if such hostile, offensive or inappropriate use is high profile. Several U.S. federal statutes may apply to us with respect to various activities of our customers, including: the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (the DMCA), which provides recourse for owners of copyrighted material who believe their rights under U.S. copyright law have been infringed on the Internet; the Communications Decency Act of 1996 (the CDA), which regulates content on the Internet unrelated to intellectual property; and the Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act (the ACPA), which provides recourse for trademark owners against cybersquatters. The DMCA and the CDA generally protect online service providers like us that do not own or control website content posted by customers from liability for certain activities of customers, such as the posting of defamatory or obscene content, unless the online service provider is participating in the unlawful conduct. For example, the safe harbor provisions of the DMCA shield Internet service providers and other intermediaries from direct or indirect liability for copyright infringement. However, under the DMCA, we must follow the procedures for handling copyright infringement claims set forth in the DMCA including expeditiously removing or disabling access to the allegedly infringing material upon the receipt of a proper notice from, or on behalf of, a copyright owner alleging infringement of copyrighted material located on websites we host. Under the CDA, we are generally not responsible for the customer-created content hosted on our servers and thus are generally immunized from liability for torts committed by others. Consequently, we do not monitor hosted websites or prescreen the content placed by our customers. Under the safe harbor provisions of the ACPA, domain name registrars are shielded from liability in many circumstances, including cybersquatting, although the safe harbor provisions may not apply if our activities are deemed outside the scope of registrar functions. Although these statutes and case law in the U.S. have generally shielded us from liability for customer activities to date, court rulings in pending or future litigation may narrow the scope of protection afforded us under these laws. Neither the DMCA nor the CDA generally apply to claims of trademark violations, and thus they may be inapplicable to many of the claims asserted against our company. Furthermore, notwithstanding the exculpatory language of these bodies of law, the activities of our customers may result in threatened or actual litigation against us. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, laws governing these activities are unsettled in many international jurisdictions, or may prove difficult or impossible for us to comply with in some international jurisdictions. Also, other existing bodies of law, including the criminal laws of various states, may be deemed to apply or new statutes or regulations may be adopted in the future, any of which could expose us to further liability and increase our costs of doing business. We may face liability or become involved in disputes over registration and transfer of domain names and control over websites. As a provider of web-based and cloud-based products, including as a registrar of domain names and related products, we from time to time become aware of disputes over ownership or control of customer accounts, websites or domain names. We could face potential claims of tort law liability for our failure to renew a customer's domain. We could also face potential tort law liability for our role in the wrongful transfer of control or ownership of accounts, websites or domain names. The safeguards and procedures we have adopted may not be successful in insulating us against liability from such claims in the future. In addition, we face potential liability for other forms of account, website or domain name "hijacking," including misappropriation by third parties of our network of customer accounts, websites or domain names and attempts by third parties to operate accounts, websites or domain names or to extort the customer whose accounts, websites or domain names were misappropriated. Furthermore, we are exposed to potential liability as a result of our domain privacy product, wherein the identity and contact details for the domain name registrant are masked. Although our terms of service reserve our right to take certain steps when 35 Table of Contents domain name disputes arise related to our privacy product, including the removal of our privacy service, the safeguards we have in place may not be sufficient to avoid liability, which could increase our costs of doing business. Occasionally one of our customers may register a domain name identical, or similar, to a third party's trademark or the name of a living person. These occurrences have in the past and may in the future lead to our involvement in disputes over such domain names. Disputes involving registration or control of domain names are often resolved through the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy (the UDRP), ICANN's administrative process for domain name dispute resolution, or less frequently through litigation under the ACPA, or under general theories of trademark infringement or dilution. The UDRP generally does not impose liability on registrars, and the ACPA provides that registrars may not be held liable for registration or maintenance of a domain name absent a showing of the registrar's bad faith intent to profit. However, we may face liability if we act in bad faith or fail to comply in a timely manner with procedural requirements under these rules, including forfeiture of domain names in connection with UDRP actions. In addition, domain name registration disputes and compliance with the procedures under the ACPA and URDP typically require at least limited involvement by us and, therefore, increase our cost of doing business. The volume of domain name registration disputes may increase in the future as the overall number of registered domain names increases. We are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key employees, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future performance depends on the continued services and contributions of our senior management and other key employees to execute on our business plan and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. The loss of services of senior management or other key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. In addition, some of the members of our current management team have only been working together for a short period of time, which could adversely impact our ability to achieve our goals. The loss of the services of our senior management or other key employees for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would suffer. Our future success and ability to innovate depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel or delays in hiring required personnel, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, specifically employees with technical and engineering skills and employees with language skills and cultural knowledge of the geographic markets we have recently expanded to or that we intend to expand to in the near future, will be critical to our future success. Competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, particularly in U.S. tech hubs such as the San Francisco Bay Area, Seattle and Cambridge. We are limited in our ability to recruit global talent by U.S. immigration laws, including those related to H1-B visas. The demand for H-1B visas to fill highly-skilled IT and computer science jobs is greater than the number of H-1B visas available each year; for the U.S. government's 2017 fiscal year, the U.S. issued 85,000 H-1B visas out of 236,000 requests. In addition, many of our employees have outstanding options or other equity awards. As a public company, the ability of our employees to sell their stock received pursuant to equity awards in the public market may lead to a larger than normal turnover rate. We intend to issue stock options or other equity awards as key components of our overall compensation and employee attraction and retention efforts. In addition, we are required under GAAP to recognize compensation expense in our operating results for employee equity-based compensation under our equity grant programs, which may negatively impact our operating results and may increase the pressure to limit equity-based compensation. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. Also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) and the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE). We expect the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources. Management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us, among other things, to maintain effective disclosure