Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, involving substantial risks and uncertainties. The words "believe," "may," "will," "potentially," "plan," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "project," "expect" and similar expressions conveying uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, among other things, those regarding: our ability to continue to add new customers and increase sales to our existing customers; our ability to develop new solutions and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing solutions; our dependence on establishing and maintaining a strong brand; the occurrence of service interruptions and security or privacy breaches; system failures or capacity constraints; the rate of growth of, and anticipated trends and challenges in, our business and in the market for our products; our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, including changes in technology and development, marketing and advertising, general and administrative and Customer Care expenses, and our ability to achieve and maintain, future profitability; our ability to continue to efficiently acquire customers, maintain our high customer retention rates and maintain the level of our customers' lifetime spend; our ability to provide high quality Customer Care; the effects of increased competition in our markets and our ability to compete effectively; our ability to grow internationally; the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our business and our ability to effectively manage the exposure to such fluctuations; our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments; our ability to integrate recent or potential future acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of Host Europe Holdings Limited (HEG) and our proposed acquisition of Main Street Hub, and to deliver a broader range of cloud-based products built on a single global technology platform; our ability to maintain our relationships with our partners; adverse consequences of our substantial level of indebtedness and our ability to repay our debt; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to maintain or improve our market share; sufficiency of cash and cash equivalents to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our ability to stay in compliance with laws and regulations currently applicable to, or which may become applicable to, our business both in the United States (U.S.) and internationally; economic and industry trends or trend analysis; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel; the amount and timing of any payments we make under tax receivable agreements (TRAs) or for tax distributions; the future trading prices of our Class A common stock; as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition, growth prospects and business strategies. 3 Table of Contents NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) We operate in very competitive and rapidly-changing environments, and new risks emerge from time-to-time. It is not possible for us to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those implied in our forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances described in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Neither we, nor any other person, assume responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this report to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Unless expressly indicated or the context suggests otherwise, references to GoDaddy, we, us and our refer to GoDaddy Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Desert Newco, LLC and its subsidiaries (Desert Newco). We refer to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (together with its affiliates, KKR), Silver Lake Partners (together with its affiliates, Silver Lake) and Technology Crossover Ventures (together with its affiliates, TCV) collectively as the Sponsors. We refer to YAM Special Holdings, Inc. as YAM. We refer to Robert R. Parsons, the sole beneficial owner of YAM, our founder and a member of our board of directors, as Bob Parsons. 4 Table of Contents Part I. Item 1. Business Our customers have bold aspirationsthe drive to be their own boss, write their own story and take a leap of faith to pursue their dreams. Launching that brewery, running that wedding planning service, organizing that fundraiser, expanding that web-design business or whatever sparks their passion. We are inspired by our customers, and are dedicated to helping them turn their powerful ideas into meaningful action. Our vision is to radically shift the global economy toward life-fulfilling independent ventures. Overview Our more than 17 million customers are people and organizations with vibrant ideasbusinesses, both large and small, entrepreneurs, charities and hobbyists. They are defined by their guts, grit and determination to transform their ideas into something meaningful. They wear many hats and juggle many responsibilities, and they need to make the most of their time. Our customers need help navigating today's dynamic Internet environment and want the benefits of the latest technology to help them succeed. We are a trusted partner and champion for organizations of all sizes in their quest to build a successful online presence. We are a leading technology provider to small businesses, web design professionals and individuals, delivering simple, easy-to-use cloud-based products and outcome-driven, personalized Customer Care. We operate the world's largest domain marketplace, where our customers can find that unique piece of digital real estate perfectly matching their idea. We provide website building, hosting and security tools and services to help customers easily construct, expand and protect their online presence. As our customers grow, we provide applications and access to relevant third-party products and platforms helping them connect to their customers, manage and grow their businesses and get found online. The Internet is no longer just an interconnected network of independent sites and pagesit is an entire ecosystem, with layers and levels of identity and presence. An online presence may have initially consisted of a simple and static website with basic information, often supported by limited search engine marketing. Now, our customers must manage their online identities and interact with their customers across many platforms, including social media channels, search engines, listing providers and e-commerce marketplaces, all while maintaining a strong and elegant mobile and desktop presence. We offer products and solutions to help our customers tackle this rapidly-changing technology landscape and evolve their online presence as their business and goals evolve. We develop the majority of our products internally and believe our solutions are among the best in the industry in terms of breadth, performance, functionality and ease of use. Often technology companies force their customers to choose between technology and support, delivering one but not the other. At GoDaddy, we don't believe our customers should have to choose and strive to deliver both great technology and great customer support. We believe engaging with our customers in a proactive, consultative way helps them knock down the technology hurdles they face. Through the thousands of conversations we have with our customers every day, we receive valuable feedback enabling us to continually evolve our products and solutions and respond to their changing needs. Our people and unique culture have been integral to our success. We live by the same principles that enable new ventures to survive and thrive: hard work, perseverance, conviction, an obsession with customer satisfaction and a belief that no one can do it better. We take responsibility for driving successful outcomes and are accountable to our customers, which we believe has been a key factor in enabling our rapid customer and revenue growth. We believe we have one of the most recognized technology brands in the U.S. Our Size and Scale Our combination of easy-to-use cloud-based products, personalized Customer Care, a powerful brand and a unique culture have helped us build an attractive business with strong financial performance. We are the global market leader in domain name registrationa key on-ramp to establishing a business online in our connected economywith more than 75 million domains under management as of December 31, 2017 , which, based on information reported in VeriSign's Domain Name Industry Brief represented more than 22% of the world's registered domains. As of December 31, 2017 , we had more than 17 million customers, with approximately 2.6 million customers added in 2017 , of which 1.6 million came through our acquisition of Host Europe Group (HEG). 5 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2017 , we had nearly 1 million customers who each spent more than $500 a year. In each of the five years ended December 31, 2017 , our customer retention rate exceeded 85% and our retention rate for customers who had been with us for over three years was approximately 91% . In 2017 , we generated $2,618 million in total bookings, up 21.5% from $2,155 million in 2016 . In 2017 , we had $2,232 million of revenue, up 20.8% from $1,848 million in 2016 . As of December 31, 2017 , we provided localized solutions in over 50 markets. In 2017 , approximately 33% of our total bookings were attributable to customers outside of the U.S. Our highly-rated Customer Care team of nearly 5,500 specialists, including nearly 1,900 outside the U.S., is focused on providing high-quality, personalized care. As a result of their ongoing dialogue with customers, our Customer Care team also drives bookings and in 2017 generated approximately 20% of our total bookings. Our Market Our customers represent a large and diverse market which we believe is largely underserved. According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, there were approximately 29.7 million small businesses in 2014. Based on data from the 2014 U.S. Census Bureau and the U.S. Small Business Administration, over 90% of small businesses have fewer than five employees and approximately 24 million , or over 80% of, small businesses were non-employer firms. Furthermore, the Kauffman Index of Entrepreneurial Activity Report estimated that in 2015 there were approximately 530,000 new business owners created each month in the U.S. Moreover, according to a study performed by the International Finance Corporation and McKinsey Company, there are more than 420 million micro, small and medium enterprises (defined as one to 250 employees) worldwide. We believe our addressable market extends beyond small businesses and includes individuals and organizations, such as universities, community organizations, charities and hobbyists. Despite the ubiquity and importance of the Internet to individual consumers, many small businesses and organizations have remained offline given their limited resources and inadequate tools. We believe approximately 60% of small businesses do not have a website. However, as proliferation of mobile devices blurs the online/offline distinction into an "always online" world, having an impactful online presence is becoming a "must have" for small businesses worldwide. What it means for small businesses and ventures to be online continues to evolve. Today, having an effective online presence often means having a combination of: (i) a secure and content rich website viewable from any device; (ii) presence on social media sites, (iii) search engines and an increasing number of horizontal and vertical marketplaces (e.g. Yelp and OpenTable); (iv) branded email communication; (v) online marketing; and (vi) Internet-enabled commerce ability with reservation and scheduling capabilities for service-based businesses and a product catalog and sales capabilities for product-based businesses. In addition, other needs such as telephony, payment processing, and accounting and tax preparation, which had traditionally been separate point solutions, can now be part of an integrated solution. The shift toward dynamic online presence for small business has been fueled by the emergence of simple, yet powerful, cloud-based technologies that can easily be utilized by individuals with limited technical skills. Cloud technologies have helped enable the integration of front and back-end activities. Cloud-based products, which can be "rented" on a monthly or yearly basis, allow a business to more easily scale from a nascent idea to a thriving venture. Our Customers Our customers share common traits, such as tenacity and determination. They have an entrepreneurial spirit, strong work ethic and, above all, passion for their ventures, yet their specific needs vary depending on the type and stage of their ventures. They range from individuals who are thinking about starting a business to established ventures that are up and running but need help attracting customers, growing their sales, managing their business or expanding their operations. Most of our customers have fewer than five employees and most identify themselves as having little to no technology skills. They need our help to give their businesses a unique and secure digital identity. While our customers have differing degrees of resources and technical capabilities, they all share a desire to find tools to help them bring their ideas to life, enhance their connection with their existing customers and find new customers. To serve our customers well at every phase of their ventures, we group them into multiple stages of growth, starting with "nascent" and evolving to "established and content." We have also identified groups with specialized needs, such as the "digital commerce" group made up of web-savvy individuals who utilize digital commerce platforms as their main source of revenue, and domain investors who buy, hold and sell domains as their primary business activity. We also serve a group of customers consisting 6 Table of Contents of web-designers and web-developerswho we call "Web Pros"who are in the business of building, designing and managing the online presence of others. Each of these groups is unique in their needs, and we personalize our solutions to meet them at each stage in their lifecycle. Our OpportunityWhat Successful Ventures Need Our customers are consumers themselves and use the Internet to get informed, research and shop for solutions, which makes them keenly aware of the need to have an impactful online presence. While our customers' needs change depending on where they are in their lifecycle, the most common customer needs we serve include: Getting online and looking great . Our customers want to develop an online presence by finding a name perfectly identifying their business, hobby or passion. They want to create a digital identity so their customers can find, engage and transact with them online. We believe a complete digital identity includes an elegant, mobile-enabled website and the ability to get found across various search engines, social media platforms and vertical marketplaces. Growing their business and running their operations . Our customers need to communicate with their existing customers and find new customers. They also need easy-to-use products and tools to help run their businesses, including productivity, marketing, payment and security tools. Connecting with a real person when they need help. Our customers sometimes need assistance to set up a website, launch a new feature or try something new. They need real people who are available 24/7/365 and in the manner that works best for them, whether by phone, by chat or in community forums. Technology that grows with them and their customers . Our customers need a simple platform and set of tools enabling their domain, website and other solutions to easily work together as their venture grows and becomes more complex. The right platform can meet the needs of entrepreneurs who may not be technologically savvy, Web Pros with more complex requirements and customers with a range of needs in between. Reliability, security and performance . Our customers expect reliable products and want to be confident their digital presence is secure. Our customers work on their ventures whenever and however they can and need solutions fitting their lifestyle and schedule. Affordable solutions . Our customers often have limited financial resources and are unable to make large, upfront investments in the latest technology. Our customers need affordable solutions leveling the playing field and giving them the tools to look and act like bigger ventures. Our SolutionWhat We Do and How We Do It We built GoDaddy to serve our customers by providing elegant, easy-to-use cloud-based products wrapped with personalized Customer Care. Our customers turn to us to: Get a great domain name . Every great idea needs a great name. Staking a claim with a domain name is an integral part of establishing an idea and presence online. When inspiration strikes, we are there to provide our customers with high-quality search, discovery and recommendation tools as well as the broadest selection of domains to help them find the right name for their venture. Build a dynamic online presence . GoCentral and other GoDaddy offerings enable anyone to create an elegant website or online store, for both desktop and mobile, regardless of technical skill. Our products, powered by a unified cloud platform, enable our customers to get found online by helping to enhance the information on their website and extending their website and its content to where they need to be, from search engine results (e.g. Google) to social media (e.g. Facebook) to vertical marketplaces (e.g. Yelp), all from one location. For more technically-sophisticated web designers, developers and customers, we provide high-performance, flexible hosting and security products that can be used with a variety of open source design tools. We design these solutions to be easy to use, effective, reliable, flexible and a great value. Add back-office and marketing products . Our customers want to spend their time on what matters most to them, selling their products or services or helping their customers do the same. We provide them with productivity tools such as domain-specific email, online storage and payment solutions to help run their ventures. We also provide robust marketing products, such as email marketing, to help them attract and retain customers. Receive assistance from our highly-rated Customer Care team . Our Customer Care team consists of nearly 5,500 specialists worldwide who are available 24/7/365 and provide care to customers with different levels of technical 7 Table of Contents sophistication. We strive to provide high-quality, consultative care and deliver a distinctive experience helping us create loyal customers who renew their subscriptions, purchase additional products and refer their family and friends to us. Our specialists are evaluated on customer outcomes and the quality of the experience they provide. Receive high value . We price most of our products at a few dollars per month while providing our customers with robust features and functionality. We believe our high-quality products and personalized Customer Care provide our customers with an affordable bridge between their available resources and their aspirations. Our AdvantagesWhy We Win We believe the following strengths provide us with competitive advantages in realizing the potential of our opportunity: We are the leading domain name marketplace, a key on-ramp in establishing a digital identity . We are the global market leader in domain name registration with more than 75 million domains under management as of December 31, 2017 . Based on information reported in VeriSign's Domain Name Industry Brief, we held over 22% of the approximately 332 million worldwide domain names under management as of December 31, 2017 . We provide a reliable and secure global platform and infrastructure. Our investments in technology, including engineers, patents, online security, customer privacy, reliable infrastructure and data science capabilities, enable us to innovate and deliver personalized solutions to our customers. Our API-driven technology platform is built on state-of-the-art, open source technologies like Hadoop, OpenStack and other large-scale, distributed systems. Additionally, our platform allows our developers to create new and enhanced products or product features assembled from common building blocks leading to faster deployment cycles. We believe our products work well together and are more valuable and easier to use together than if our customers purchased them individually from other companies and tried to integrate them. As of December 31, 2017 , we had 1,360 engineers, 230 issued patents and 150 pending patent applications in the U.S. We operate an industry-leading Customer Care team that also drives bookings . We give our customers much more than typical customer support. Our team is unique, blending personalized Customer Care with the ability to evaluate our customers' needs, which allows us to help and advise them as well as drive incremental bookings. Our Customer Care team contributed approximately 20% of our total bookings in 2017 . Our customers respond to our personalized approach with high marks for customer satisfaction. Our proactive Customer Care model is a key component helping create long-term customer relationships, which is reflected in our high retention rates. Our brand and marketing efficiency . We believe GoDaddy is one of the most recognized technology brands in the U.S. Through a combination of cost-effective direct-marketing, brand advertising and customer referrals, we have added approximately one million net new customers organically each year from 2013 through 2017. Our financial model . Our stable and predictable business model is driven by efficient customer acquisition, high customer retention rates and increasing lifetime spend. In each of the five years ended December 31, 2017 , our customer retention rate exceeded 85% and our retention rate for customers who had been with us for over three years was approximately 91% . We believe the breadth and depth of our product offerings and the high quality and responsiveness of our Customer Care team builds strong customer relationships and are keys to our high customer retention rate. Our people and our culture . We are a company whose people embody the grit and determination of our customers. Our world-class engineers, designers, marketers and Customer Care specialists share a passion for technology and its ability to change our customers' lives. We value hard work, extraordinary effort, living passionately, taking intelligent risks and working together toward successful customer outcomes. Our relentless pursuit of doing right for our customers has been a crucial ingredient of our growth. Our scale . We have achieved significant scale in our business enabling us to efficiently acquire new customers, serve our existing customers and continue to invest in growth. In 2017 , we generated $2,618 million in total bookings up from $1,250 million in 2012 , representing a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 16% . In 2017 , we had $2,232 million of revenue up from $911 million in 2012 , representing a CAGR of 20% . In 2017 , we had $476 million of net cash provided by operating activities. In the five years ended December 31, 2017 , we invested to support our growth with $1,371 million in technology and development expenses and $994 million in marketing and advertising expenses. 8 Table of Contents Our StrategyHow We Grow We're focused on helping our customers with individualized solutions for each phase of their journey. We leverage our team's deep understanding of what our customers need to develop new products and provide empathetic and targeted customer care. We are pursuing the following principal strategies to drive our business: Expand and innovate our product and service offerings to provide more comprehensive solutions for our customers and to offer more ways for new customers to find us . We are working both to grow our core product offerings and create innovative new products, including: Delivering the next generation of naming . The first generation of naming included a limited set of generic top-level domains (gTLDs), such as .com and .net, and country code top-level domains (ccTLDs), such as .uk and .in. Hundreds of new gTLDs have been introduced in recent years, expanding the available inventory for us and our customers. Additionally, we have invested to expand the secondary market to help match buyers to sellers who already own domains. Our GoDaddy Investor mobile application helps investors watch and bid on domains at auction and stay on top of current bids from their mobile devices. We continue to invest in search, discovery and recommendation tools and transfer protocols for both primary and secondary domains. Powering elegant and effortless presence . We offer a range of products and services that help our customers get their ideas online. GoCentral combines a mobile-optimized website builder with an integrated set of marketing and e-commerce tools to help our customers create an audience for their idea or business, enabling them to design a professional website in under an hour. We continue to invest in GoCentral and other tools, templates and technology to make building, maintaining and updating a professional looking mobile or desktop presence simple and easy. Additionally, we are investing in products to help our customers drive their customer acquisition, retention and communication efforts by managing their presence across search engines, social networks and vertical marketplaces and keep their online presence and information secure. Making the business of business easy . Our business applications range from domain-specific email and email marketing to telephony services and payment tools to help our customers communicate with their customers and grow their ventures. In 2017, we introduced SmartLine, which allows our customers to add a second, separate phone line to an existing iOS or Android phone. We intend to continue investing in the breadth of our product offerings to help our customers connect with their customers and run their ventures. Win the Web Pros. We are investing in a suite of applications and services for web designers and developers to help them save time, make money and exceed client expectations. These client management applications make it easier for designers and developers to manage their clients' websites at any host, host websites on GoDaddy products such as Managed WordPress, and manage their overall business with capabilities such as client billing. Services for Web Pros also include administrative access and shopping features which make it easier to buy and manage multiple products for their clients, as well as enhanced technical support and discounts for reselling GoDaddy products. We support a variety of control panels and content management tools favored by Web Pros including cPanel, Plesk, Drupal, Joomla and more. As one of the largest global hosts of WordPress sites, many of our recent investments have focused on extending our reach into the WordPress community. Go global . As of December 31, 2017 , approximately 42% of our customers were located in international markets, notably Canada, India and the United Kingdom. We have made significant investments in the localization of our service offerings in markets outside of the U.S. and, as of December 31, 2017 , we offered localized products and Customer Care in over 50 markets. To support our international growth, we will continue investing to develop our local capabilities across products, marketing programs, data centers and Customer Care. Our recent international acquisitions, including our acquisition of HEG, are an important part of this international growth. Make it personal . We seek to leverage data and insights to personalize the product and Customer Care experiences of our customers as well as tailor our solutions and marketing efforts to each of our customer groups. We are constantly seeking to improve our website, marketing programs and Customer Care to intelligently reflect where customers are in their lifecycle and identify their specific product needs. This allows us to interact more frequently with our customers. We intend to continue investing in our technology and data platforms to further enable our personalization efforts. Wrap it with Care . We believe our highly-rated Customer Care team is distinctive and essential to the lifetime value proposition we offer our customers. We continue to invest in our Customer Care team, including investing to expand our Customer Care service, improve the quality of our Customer Care resources and introduce enhanced tools and processes across our expanding global footprint. 9 Table of Contents Partner up . Our flexible platform also enables us to acquire companies and quickly launch new products for our customers, including through partnerships such as Microsoft Office 365 for email and PayPal and Square for payments. We have also acquired companies and technologies to complement our product and service offerings and expand our geographic footprint. We intend to continue identifying value-added technology acquisition targets and partnership opportunities. Products We have designed and developed an extensive set of easy-to-use cloud-based technology products enabling our customers to establish a digital presence, connect with their customers and manage their ventures. We understand our customers' needs vary depending on the type and stage of their venture, which is why we offer our products both independently and bundled as suites of integrated products designed for specific activities. Our domain name registration products enable us to engage customers at the initial stage of establishing a digital identity and often is an on-ramp for our other products. We believe our hosting and presence and business applications products increase our revenue and margin growth opportunities, frequently serve as starting points for our customer relationships, improve customer retention and significantly improve our value proposition to customers. Domains We are the global market leader in domain name registration. Securing a domain is a key component to creating a complete digital identity and our domain products often serve as the starting point in our customer relationships. As of December 31, 2017 , approximately 92% of our customers had purchased a domain from us, and as of December 31, 2017 , we had more than 75 million domains under management. In 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , we generated approximately 47% , 50% and 52% of our total revenue, respectively, from sales of our domain products. Our primary domains product offerings are: Primary Registrations . Using our website or mobile application, we offer customers the ability to search for and register available domain names with the relevant registry. Our inventory for primary registrations is defined by the number of top-level domains (TLDs) we offer. As of December 31, 2017 , 401 different gTLDs (e.g. .com, .net and .org) and 69 different ccTLDs (e.g. .de, .ca, .in and .jp.) were available for purchase through GoDaddy. Since 2013, hundreds of new gTLDs have been launched, making it easier for companies and individuals to find and register new, easy-to-remember domain names tailored to their ventures, industry or interests. ccTLDs are important to our international expansion efforts as we have found international customers often prefer the ccTLD for the country or geographic market in which they operate. Our primary registration offering relies heavily on our search, discovery and recommendation tools which enable our customers to find a name matching their needs. We also sell domain registrations through relationships with third-party resellers. A ftermarket . We operate one of the world's largest domain aftermarkets, which processes aftermarket, or secondary, domain name sales. Our aftermarket platform is designed to enable the seamless purchase and sale of an already registered domain name through an online auction, an offer and counter-offer transaction or a "buy now" transaction. Over the last three years, we have acquired more than 730,000 domain names to increase the inventory available to our customers. Our GoDaddy Investor mobile application helps investors watch and bid on domains at auction and stay on top of their current bids, all from their mobile devices. We operate a cross-registrar network that automates transaction execution across registrars thereby reducing the time required to complete a transaction. We receive a percentage of the sales price for each domain sold. Domain Name Add-Ons . Domain name add-ons are features a customer can add to a domain name registration. Our domain name privacy product allows our customers to register a domain name on an "unlisted" basis helping prevent privacy intrusions, deter domain-related spam and allow our customers to confidentially secure a domain for an unannounced product, service or idea. Domain name add-ons are typically purchased concurrently with domain name registrations and have minimal costs associated with their delivery. Hosting and Presence We offer a variety of hosting and presence products enabling our customers to create and manage their digital identity, or in the case of Web Pros, the digital identities of their end-customers. In each of 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , we derived approximately 38% , 37% and 37% , respectively, of our total revenue from sales of our hosting and presence products. 10 Table of Contents Our primary hosting products are: Shared Website Hosting . The term "shared hosting" refers to the housing of multiple websites on the same server via the use of chroot environments. Shared hosting is our most popular hosting product. We operate, maintain and support shared website hosting in our owned and operated data centers and our leased co-located data centers using either Linux or Windows operating systems. We currently offer three tiers of shared website hosting plans to suit the needs and resources of our customers, all of which use industry standard cPanel or Parallels Plesk control panels. We also bundle our hosting plans with a variety of applications and products such as web analytics, secure sockets layer (SSL) certificates and WordPress. WordPress is the most used content management application on our shared hosting platform. Website Hosting on Virtual Private Servers and Virtual Dedicated Servers . Our broad range of virtual private server (VPS) and virtual dedicated server offerings allows our customers to select the server configuration best suited for their applications, requirements and growth. Our virtual private servers provide customers with a single virtual machine running on a single bare metal server that is running multiple other virtual machines for other customers. Our VPS product is designed to meet the requirements of customers with a need for greater control, more advanced technical capabilities and higher performance than that offered by our shared hosting plans. Our customers have the ability to tailor their virtual dedicated server plan based on a range of performance, storage, bandwidth and operating system needs. Managed Hosting . With our managed hosting products, we set up, monitor, maintain, secure and patch software and servers for our customers. We offer a variety of managed hosting plans to support our customers' needs including multiple tiers of Managed WordPress hosting on a platform optimized for WordPress. We also offer other managed environments that span across our VPS and Dedicated products like Joomla, Drupal and Magento and apps like Gallery. In addition to managed hosting plans tailored to our customers' needs, we also offer expert services, which provide additional support services. Security . Our security products include SSL certificates, malware scanners and malware removal. According to Netcraft, we are one of the world's largest provider of SSLs. An SSL validates a customer's website identity and encrypts online transaction information, such as credit card numbers, and communications sent to or by the website. We offer a variety of SSLs all of which provide high-grade, 256-bit encryption. Our SSL offerings include multiple domain SSLs and "wildcard" SSLs, which secure a singular website URL as well as subdomains on that URL (e.g. protectmyvisitors.com and cart.protectmyvisitors.com). We also offer "code signing certificates" designed to prove the identity of software authors and validate that the software has not been tampered with since its original distribution. Our website security scanner checks a customer's website at predetermined intervals for malware, blacklists, and uptime. When malware is detected, and a cleanup request has been initiated, our security team runs a remediation process to remove the malware and restore the site. Our Web Application Firewall (WAF) is a cloud-based firewall service that screens and protects real-time website traffic from threats such as SQL injection attacks and comment spammers, while also thwarting distributed denial of service (DDOS) attacks. Our primary presence products are: GoCentral . GoCentral is an easy-to-use, do-it-yourself mobile-optimized online tool enabling customers, irrespective of their technical skills, to build effective websites and online stores. We offer a variety of plans, with pricing dependent on business and marketing features. With each of these plans, customers have access to vertically targeted professional designs which can be further customized using our editor by adding intent-driven sections, photos, videos or text. Our designs cover a wide range of categories with professionally written content for small businesses, organizations, families, weddings, and other ventures. Our websites and our tools are all designed to work great on mobile devices, with a focus on performance, which is critical for websites to appear in search engine rankings. Our GoCentral product includes online appointments and online store capabilities allowing customers to transact business directly on their websites, and is optimized for mobile shopping and secure checkout via credit card, Apple Pay, Google Pay, Square, or PayPal. Our online store allows customers to manage inventory and shipping, while online appointments manages staff availability and helps remind customers of appointments. Both are integrated into our social and email marketing tools, to help customers generate more business. Marketing . Our GoCentral product line includes a range of marketing tools designed to help businesses acquire and engage customers. These capabilities are available in an integrated offering with our website and commerce tools, or as a stand-alone for customers using other website tools. The tools are designed for busy customers who may lack experience with online marketing, focusing on ease of use, mobile experience, and delivering business results. Search Engine Optimization helps our customers get their websites found on major search sites through search engine optimization using a simple step-by-step wizard with targeted recommendations on which search phrases are most likely to drive traffic to a customer's site. Business listings 11 Table of Contents capabilities bring business information to where customers are looking, including Facebook and Google My Business. Email marketing lets people build targeted campaigns, either from scratch or using website or commerce content. Business Applications We offer a variety of products designed to make the business of business easier for our customers. The products we offer include those developed in-house as well as third-party applications which we distribute and support, such as Microsoft Office 365. In 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , we derived approximately 15% , 13% and 11% of our total revenue, respectively, from sales of our business applications products. Our primary business applications products are: Microsoft Office 365 . We offer fully-supported Microsoft Office 365 accounts that are easy to set up and use with our customers' domains. We offer Microsoft Office 365 in multiple plans ranging from email with calendar and contacts connected to a custom domain to a full suite of productivity tools, including file sharing and full desktop versions of Microsoft productivity applications, including Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint. For customers wanting to protect their email data, we offer an email backup service (in partnership with SkyKick), and for customers needing to comply with regulatory requirements, we offer email add-on services such as HIPPA-enabled email, encryption services (in partnership with ProofPoint) and archiving services (in partnership with Sonian). We help make Microsoft Office 365 installation easy, allowing customers to get up and running in minutes, including "do-it-for-me" migrations services to move customers' existing email data to Office 365 accounts. Email Accounts . We offer a range of email service plans with a multi-feature web interface that connects to our customers' domains. The pricing of these plans depends on the customer's desired amount of storage and number of email addresses. All of our email accounts are advertising-free and include security functionality designed to provide protection from spam, viruses and other forms of online fraud, such as phishing. Email Marketing . Our email marketing product helps customers market their businesses through permission-based email. Customers can easily create and send newsletters, targeted advertising campaigns, promotions and surveys as well as connect email campaigns with their social media networks and track the results of campaigns. Telephony . We provide internet-based telephone services that can be accessed with either IP phones, or traditional local or cellular telephone services. In 2017, we launched our SmartLine plan, which includes a virtual number phone and mobile application, enabling customers to have two numbers on one phone to separate business communications from personal communications. All of our plans allow customers to make and receive phone calls, send/receive text and MMS messages using their Smartline number and chosen caller ID. In addition, Smartline offers customers a range of minutes and texts, a local or toll-free number and a mobile application to manage the service, as well as voicemail, voicemail transcription, email delivery of voicemail, customized business greetings, business hour settings and ability to block unwanted callers. We also offer single and multi-line VoIP phone systems, IP enabled phones, virtual phone numbers, virtual receptionist services, customizable phone tree, follow-me call forwarding and fax-on-demand. Technology and Infrastructure Our technology platform forms the core of many of our solutions, and we have invested significantly to develop a platform designed to be intelligent, fast, secure and scalable. Our technology and development expenses, including those expenses related to our technology platform, were $356 million , $288 million and $270 million in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. We have built a scalable platform allowing us to provide faster business insights at lower costs, develop and introduce new products quickly and leverage economies of scale to reduce costs and enable next-generation hosting architecture. Our technology stack, which consists of physical infrastructure, infrastructure-as-a-service, and platform-as-a-service, allows our customers to build and manage their digital identities and enable access across multiple devices. We seek to continuously enhance the performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure by investing in faster data centers, improved network connectivity and improved resiliency, both domestically and internationally. Physical infrastructure Our physical technology infrastructure includes servers located in data centers around the world. We have also invested significantly in our peering architecture and utilize multiple peering sites allowing us to handle high IP transit traffic at low bandwidth costs. Our large technology infrastructure footprint allows us to leverage economies of scale through low server, 12 Table of Contents network, storage and processing costs by commoditizing hardware across various systems and leveraging virtualization where possible. Infrastructure-as-a-Service We leverage an Infrastructure-as-a-Service model geared toward the virtualization and automation of common physical data center components like servers, load balancers, switches and storage. We use open source solutions when possible to automate manual processes and thereby reduce the risk of human error as well as to lower costs. Additionally, we are beginning to use a single automated infrastructure based on OpenStack to enable next-generation services. In 2017, we started to leverage third-party public cloud offerings to augment our internal infrastructure-as-a-service model. Platform-as-a-Service Our platform provides our customers fast, simple and customer-centric products across the globe, by allowing us to easily and quickly build and deploy new products incorporating our data insights. Our investments in our platform capabilities include the following: E-commerce Platform and Application Services. While we continue to use our existing platform, we have developed and begun to implement a new e-commerce platform. We expect this new platform to enhance our value proposition to our customers by offering comprehensive, flexible and integrated solutions that can be rapidly scaled up or down, used across multiple platforms and integrated with third-party offerings. Both our existing and new platforms also allow resellers to easily sell our products, thereby broadening our distribution channels. We seek to continuously launch new and relevant applications and streamline our existing offerings in order to provide the best user experience to our customers. Data Platform. Our horizontal data platform helps us to be a trusted source of data about our customers and their online ventures through accurate, meaningful, and easily consumable data insights, which allows us to build best-in-class, personalized experiences for our customers. Our data platform is key to helping us deepen our customer and business insights; these insights enable innovation through instrumentation, experimentation and analysis. Content and Marketing Platform. Our content and marketing platforms leverage the latest tools, technology and operational and production models that enable us to deliver customer-centric digital experiences at an accelerated pace through multiple touchpoints and channels. Our content platform and content creation processes help us realize efficiencies and scalability, which enhance our ability to drive new, high quality products and customer experiences to market faster. We are focused on driving advancements in experimentation, the speed and volume of content creation, localization and content self-service, while ensuring platform availability and performance. We are also delivering new engagement marketing capabilities that improve business effectiveness and customer experiences. Customer Care We have nearly 5,500 Customer Care specialists who provide technical assistance 24/7/365 to customers located around the world. Our specialists use a consultative approach to advise customers of products best suiting their individual needs. This ability to provide real-time product suggestions while providing a world-class support experience allows our Customer Care team to provide an impactful contribution to bookings through the sale of product subscriptions. In each of 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , at least 20% of our total bookings were generated from the sale of product subscriptions by our Customer Care team. Our revised merchandising strategies, such as free trials and an increased mix of monthly product subscriptions, drove more renewal billings to our website and away from the Customer Care team during 2017 , which we expect to continue in the future. The majority of our Customer Care specialists are located in our Arizona and Iowa facilities in the U.S. We have additional international specialists providing in-region support in native languages. In addition, our easy-to-use website contains extensive educational content designed to demystify the process of establishing an online presence and to assist customers in choosing the products best meeting their needs. We also provide a variety of online tutorials through blogs and other services including The GoDaddy Garage Blog and third-party sites like YouTube. Our Customer Care team operates through a variety of channels to provide tailored and timely support to our customers, handling approximately 20 million contacts in 2017 . Our customers can choose their preferred Customer Care channel, including proactive and reactive chat and phone support. We take a consultative approach to our customer interactions, acting as a trusted partner to answer their questions, to guide them through technical solutions, to offer real-time product suggestions best suited to 13 Table of Contents their needs and to support them at each phase of their lifecycle. The effectiveness of our model is reflected in the high ratings we receive from our customers, the bookings generated by our Customer Care team and strong customer referrals. The strength of our Customer Care team is our people. Our hiring process is extensive and highly selective, designed to yield individuals who will thrive in our team based on core values, character, work ethic and ability. Our new Customer Care hires spend over a month moving from classroom to a live "nesting" environment where they refine their customer and technology skills. With a commitment to life-long learning, we offer hundreds of classes to our employees spanning leadership, sales, service and technology. Our incentive program rewards outcomes, across both customer satisfaction and bookings goals. For these and many other reasons, as of December 31, 2017 , approximately 38% of our Customer Care specialists had been with us for at least three years. Marketing We believe GoDaddy is one of the most recognized technology brands in the U.S. We have established this high level of brand awareness primarily through our advertising campaigns across various platforms including television commercials, print, online and billboards. We have supplemented these advertising campaigns with athlete and celebrity sponsorships. Our strong brand has helped us attract and retain more than 17 million customers as of December 31, 2017 . We intend to continue investing in our brand as we seek to further grow our total customers, particularly internationally. Customer referrals are another highly efficient and cost-effective channel for acquiring customers. We complement our brand marketing efforts with focused and metric-driven direct response marketing to acquire new customers. We use a variety of targeted online marketing programs for lead generation, including search engine marketing, search engine optimization and targeted email and social media marketing campaigns, as well as more traditional direct marketing and indirect channel partner marketing programs, to drive interest in our products and traffic to our websites. As part of this effort, we regularly run numerous campaigns simultaneously and constantly refine our media mix across our channels. International Central to our international strategy is a philosophy of localizing our product offerings and customer experience and deploying them through our global infrastructure. As of December 31, 2017 , we had over 7 million customers outside of the U.S. and derived approximately 33% , 28% and 26% of our total bookings from international sales in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. We have built a dedicated team responsible for the internationalization and localization of our core product offerings as well as our Customer Care and marketing efforts, including through our acquisition of HEG in 2017. In conjunction with our localization efforts, we have added on-the-ground regional teams and increased our country and regional specific marketing spend. These investments have enabled us to successfully launch and expand our business outside the U.S. and as of December 31, 2017 , we provided localized products and Customer Care in over 50 markets around the world. We have taken a rigorous approach to managing the level of investment we expect to make in each geographic market we enter based on a market tier approach. We expect to continue to expand internationally, growing our share and increasing penetration of the international markets we've entered in recent years. Competition We provide cloud-based solutions enabling individuals, businesses and organizations to establish an online presence, connect with customers and manage their ventures. The market for providing these solutions is highly fragmented and competitive. These solutions are also rapidly evolving, creating opportunity for new competitors to enter the market with point-solution products or address specific segments of the market. In some instances, we have commercial partnerships with companies with which we also compete. Given our broad product portfolio, we compete with niche point-solution products and broader solution providers. Our competitors include providers of: domain registration services and web-hosting solutions such as Endurance, Donuts, United Internet and Web.com; website creation and management solutions such as Automattic, Shopify, Squarespace, and Wix; cloud-infrastructure services and online security providers such as Comodo, Symantec, Let's Encrypt and WP Engine; alternative web presence and marketing solutions such as Constant Contact, Etsy, OpenTable, Yelp and Zillow; and 14 Table of Contents productivity tools such as business-class email, calendaring and file-sharing such as Dropbox, Microsoft and Google. We expect continued competition from companies in the domain, hosting and presence markets such as Automattic, Endurance, Donuts, Squarespace, United Internet, Web.com and Wix. We also expect potential increased competition from companies like Google, Amazon, Facebook and Microsoft, which are providers of web-hosting, Internet marketing, ecommerce and other cloud-based services. We believe the principal competitive factors include: product capabilities meeting customer requirements, a secure, reliable and integrated technology platform, cost-effective customer acquisition, brand awareness and reputation, customer service and support and overall customer satisfaction. We believe we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. For additional information, see "Risk Factors." Regulation Our business is subject to regulation by ICANN, federal and state laws in the U.S. and the laws of other jurisdictions in which we do business. ICANN . The registration of domain names is governed by ICANN. ICANN is a multi-stakeholder private sector, not-for-profit corporation formed in 1998 for the express purposes of overseeing a number of Internet related tasks, including management of the DNS, allocation of IP addresses, accreditation of domain name registrars and registries and the definition and coordination of policy development for all of these functions. We are accredited by ICANN as a domain name registrar and thus our ability to offer domain name registration products is subject to our ongoing relationship with and accreditation by ICANN. The regulation of Internet domain names in the U.S. and in foreign countries is subject to change. For example, in 2016, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, or the NTIA, an agency of the U.S. Department of Commerce, transitioned oversight of key Internet domain name functions to the global multi-stakeholder community. ccTLD Authorities . The regulation of ccTLDs is governed by national regulatory agencies of the country underlying the specific ccTLDs, such as China (.cn), Canada (.ca) and the United Kingdom (.uk). Our ability to sell ccTLDs is dependent on our and our partners' ability to maintain accreditation in good standing with these various international authorities. Advertising and promotional information presented on our websites and in our products, and our other marketing and promotional activities, are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws regulating unfair and deceptive practices. U.S. federal, state, and foreign legislatures have also adopted laws and regulations regulating numerous other aspects of our business. Regulations relating to the Internet, including laws governing online content, user privacy, taxation, liability for third-party activities and jurisdiction, are particularly relevant to our business. Such laws and regulations are discussed below. Communications Decency Act . The CDA regulates content of material on the Internet, and provides immunity to Internet service providers and providers of interactive computer services for certain claims based on content posted by third parties. The CDA and the case law interpreting it generally provide that domain name registrars and website hosting providers cannot be liable for defamatory or obscene content posted by customers on their servers unless they participate in creating or developing the content. Digital Millennium Copyright Act . The DMCA provides domain name registrars and website hosting providers a safe harbor from liability for third-party copyright infringement. To qualify for the safe harbor, however, registrars and website hosting providers must satisfy numerous requirements, including adoption of a user policy providing for termination of service access of users who are repeat infringers, informing users of this policy, and implementing the policy in a reasonable manner. In addition, registrars and website hosting providers must expeditiously remove or disable access to content upon receiving a proper notice from a copyright owner alleging infringement of its protected works. A registrar or website hosting provider failing to comply with these safe harbor requirements may be found liable for copyright infringement. Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Pr otection Act. The ACPA was enacted to address piracy on the Internet by curtailing a practice known as "cybersquatting," or the bad-faith registration of a domain name identical or similar to another party's trademark, or to the name of another living person, in order to profit from that name or mark. The ACPA provides that registrars may not be held liable for damages for registration or maintenance of a domain name for another person absent a showing of the registrar's bad faith intent to profit. Registrars may, however, be held liable if their activities are deemed outside the scope of basic registrar functions. 15 Table of Contents Lanham Act . The Lanham Act governs trademarks and false advertising. Case law interpreting the Lanham Act has limited liability for many online service providers such as search engines and domain name registrars. Nevertheless, there is no statutory safe harbor for trademark violations comparable to the provisions of the DMCA and we may be subject to a variety of trademark claims in the future. Privacy and Data Protection . In the areas of personal privacy and data protection, the U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on, and requirements associated with, the collection, distribution, use, storage, and security of personal information of individuals. If our practices with respect to the collection, distribution, storage, or security of personal information are challenged, we may not be able to demonstrate adequate compliance with existing or future laws or regulations. In addition, in the European Union member states and certain other countries outside the U.S., data protection is more highly regulated and rigidly enforced. Regulators in the European Union have approved the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a regulation that will take full effect on May 25, 2018, superseding at that time the 1995 European Union Data Protection Directive. The GDPR includes stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, for companies established in the EU and those outside of the EU if they collect and use personal data, including payment card information, imposes significant penalties for non-compliance and has broader extra-territorial effect. With our acquisition of HEG, and as we conduct and expand our business across Europe and elsewhere, we expect compliance with these regulatory schemes to be more burdensome and costly for us. Laws and regulations relating to our activities are unsettled in many jurisdictions, or may prove difficult or impossible to comply with in some jurisdictions. Additionally, federal, state, local and foreign governments are also considering legislative and regulatory proposals that would regulate the Internet and our activities in more and different ways than exist today. It also is impossible to predict whether new taxes will be imposed on our services, and depending upon the type of such taxes, whether and how we would be affected. Laws and regulations in the U.S. or in foreign jurisdictions may be applied in new or different manners in pending or future litigation. Further, other existing bodies of law, including the criminal laws of various jurisdictions, may be deemed to apply to our activities, or new statutes or regulations may be adopted in the future. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights Our intellectual property and proprietary rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality and access-related procedures and safeguards and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technologies, confidential information, brands and other intellectual property. We have also developed, acquired or licensed proprietary technologies for use in our business. As of December 31, 2017 , we had 230 issued patents in the U.S. covering various aspects of our product offerings. Additionally, as of December 31, 2017 , we had 150 pending U.S. patent applications and intend to file additional patent applications in the future. We have non-disclosure, confidentiality and license agreements with employees, contractors, customers and other third parties, which limit access to and use of our proprietary information. Though we rely in part upon these legal and contractual protections, as well as various procedural safeguards, we believe the skill and ingenuity of our employees, the functionality and frequent enhancements to our solutions and our ability to introduce new products and features meeting the needs of our customers are more important to maintaining our competitive position in the marketplace. We have an ongoing trademark and service mark registration program pursuant to which we register our brand names and product names, taglines and logos in the U.S. and other countries to the extent we determine appropriate and cost-effective. We also have common law rights in some unregistered trademarks that were established over years of use. In addition, we have a trademark and service mark enforcement program pursuant to which we monitor applications filed by third parties to register trademarks and service marks that may be confusingly similar to ours, as well as the use of our major brand names in social media, domain names and other Internet sites. Despite our efforts to preserve and protect our intellectual property, unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain access to our proprietary rights, and competitors may attempt to develop solutions that could compete with us in the markets we serve. Unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information or proprietary technologies by our employees or third parties could also occur. The risk of unauthorized use of our proprietary and intellectual property rights may increase as we continue to expand outside of the U.S. Third-party infringement claims are also possible in our industry, especially as functionality and features expand, evolve and overlap across industries. Third parties, including non-practicing patent holders, have from time to time claimed, and could 16 Table of Contents claim in the future, that our processes, technologies or websites infringe patents they now hold or might obtain or be issued in the future. Employees As of December 31, 2017 , we had 5,990 employees worldwide, including 3,588 in our Customer Care team, 1,360 in technology and development, 268 in marketing and advertising and 774 in general and administrative. Excluded from our employee figures are nearly 1,900 Customer Care specialists located in Bulgaria, China, Colombia, India, Mexico, the Philippines and the United Kingdom who are directly employed by third-party partners, but who are dedicated to GoDaddy on a full time basis. Substantially all of our employees are based in the U.S. and Europe. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is party to any collective bargaining agreement in connection with his or her employment with us. However, certain of our employees in Germany are represented by an employee works council pursuant to local regulations. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware on May 28, 2014. Our principal executive offices are located at 14455 N. Hayden Road, Scottsdale, Arizona 85260 and our telephone number is (480) 505-8800. Available Information Our website is located at www.godaddy.com, and our investor relations website is located at www.investors.godaddy.net. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Proxy Statements are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports we file or furnish with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can get information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 17 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties we are unaware of, or we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors affecting us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to attract and retain customers and increase sales to new and existing customers, our business and operating results would be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain customers and increase sales to new and existing customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from domains and our hosting and presence products. The rate at which new and existing customers purchase and renew subscriptions to our products depends on a number of factors, including those outside of our control. Although our total customers and revenue have grown rapidly in the past, in recent periods our slower growth rates have reflected the size and scale of our business. We cannot be assured that we will achieve similar growth rates in future periods as our total customers and revenue could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. Our sales could fluctuate or decline as a result of lower demand for domain names, websites and related products, declines in our customers' level of satisfaction with our products and our Customer Care, the timeliness and success of product enhancements and introductions by us and those of our competitors, the pricing offered by us and our competitors, the frequency and severity of any system outages, breaches and technological change. Our revenue has grown historically due in large part to sustained customer growth rates and strong renewal sales of subscriptions to our domain name registration and hosting and presence products. Our future success depends in part on maintaining strong renewal sales. Our costs associated with renewal sales are substantially lower than costs associated with generating revenue from new customers and costs associated with generating sales of additional products to existing customers. Therefore, a reduction in renewals, even if offset by an increase in other revenue, would reduce our operating margins in the near term. Any failure by us to continue to attract new customers or maintain strong renewal sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and operating results. If we are unable to increase sales of additional products, such as personalized email accounts and other business applications products, to new and existing customers, our growth prospects may be harmed. If we do not successfully develop and market products that anticipate or respond promptly to the needs of our customers, our business and operating results may suffer. The markets in which we compete are characterized by constant change and innovation, and we expect them to continue to evolve rapidly. Our historical success has been based on our ability to identify and anticipate customer needs and design products providing small businesses and ventures with the tools they need to create, manage and augment their digital identity. To the extent we are not able to continue to identify challenges faced by small businesses and ventures and provide products responding in a timely and effective manner to their evolving needs, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. The process of developing new products and technology is complex and uncertain. If we fail to accurately predict customers' changing needs or emerging technological trends, or if we fail to achieve the benefits expected from our investments in technology, our business could be harmed. These product and technology investments include those we develop internally, such as our "do-it-yourself" website builder GoCentral, our hosting platforms, and our security products, those we acquire and develop as a result of acquisitions, such as SmartLine and Website Security, and those related to our partner programs, such as Microsoft. We must continue to commit significant resources to develop our technology in order to maintain our competitive position, and these commitments will be made without knowing whether such investments will result in products our customers will accept. Our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain meaningful customer acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing new products or product enhancements to the market; our failure to accurately predict market demand or customer preferences; defects, errors or failures in product design or performance; negative publicity about product performance or effectiveness; introduction of competing products (or the anticipation thereof) by other market participants; 18 Table of Contents poor business conditions for our customers or poor general macroeconomic conditions; the perceived value of our products or product enhancements relative to their cost; and changing regulatory requirements adversely affecting the products we offer. There is no assurance we will successfully identify new opportunities, develop and bring new products to market on a timely basis, or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance by our customers, or if our new products do not result in increased sales or subscriptions, our competitive position will be impaired, our anticipated revenue growth may not be achieved and the negative impact on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the upfront technology and development, marketing and advertising and other expenses we may incur in connection with new products or enhancements. Our brand is integral to our success. If we fail to protect or promote our brand, our business and competitive position may be harmed. Protecting and maintaining awareness of our brand is important to our success, particularly as we seek to attract new customers globally. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, substantial resources to increase our brand awareness, both generally and in specific geographies and to specific customer groups, such as Web Pros. There can be no assurance that our brand development strategies will enhance the recognition of our brand or lead to increased sales. Furthermore, our international branding efforts may prove unsuccessful due to language barriers and cultural differences. If our efforts to protect and promote our brand are not successful, our operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, even if our brand recognition and loyalty increases, our revenue may not increase at a level commensurate with our marketing spend. A network attack, a security breach or other data security incident could delay or interrupt service to our customers, harm our reputation or subject us to significant liability. Our operations depend on our ability to protect our network and systems against interruption or damage from unauthorized entry, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other security threats beyond our control. We regularly experience DDOS attacks by hackers aimed at disrupting service to our customers and attempts to place illegal or abusive content on our or our customers' websites, and we may be subject to DDOS attacks or content abuse in the future. Our response to such DDOS attacks may be insufficient to protect our network and systems, especially as attacks (such as the DYN attack in October 2016) increase in size. In addition, there has been an increase in the number of malicious software attacks in the technology industry, including malware and ransomware, such as WannaCry. In addition, from time to time, activities of our customers or other parties may cause us to suspend or terminate customer accounts. We have suspended and terminated, and will in the future suspend or terminate, a customer's use of our products when the activities on their site breach our terms of service (for example, phishing or resource misuse), interfere with or harm other customers' websites sharing the same resources or otherwise violate applicable law. We may also suspend or terminate a customer's website if it is repeatedly targeted by DDOS or other attacks disrupting other customers' websites or servers or otherwise impacts our infrastructure. We cannot guarantee our backup systems, regular data backups, security protocols, network protection mechanisms and other procedures currently in place, or that may be in place in the future, will be adequate to prevent or remedy network and service interruption, system failure, damage to one or more of our systems, data loss, security breaches or other data security incidents. Also, our products are cloud-based, and the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers has been increasing as our business has grown. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, worms, other malicious software programs, illegal or abusive content or similar disruptive problems caused by our customers, employees, consultants or other Internet users who attempt to invade or disrupt public and private data networks or to improperly access, use or obtain data. Any actual or perceived breach of our security, or any other data security incident, could damage our reputation and brand, expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, subject us to regulatory or other government inquiries or investigations, require us to expend significant capital and other resources to alleviate problems caused by the breach, and deter customers from using our products, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 19 Table of Contents If the security of the confidential information or personally identifiable information we maintain, including that of our customers and the visitors to our customers' websites stored in our systems, is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be harmed and we may be exposed to liability. Our business involves the storage and transmission of confidential information, including personally identifiable information. In addition, as nearly all of our products are cloud-based, the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers (including personally identifiable information and other potentially sensitive information) has been increasing. We take measures intended to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the personal information and other sensitive information, including payment card information, we collect, store or transmit, but cannot guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur or that third parties or our employees will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts. If third parties succeed in penetrating our security measures or those of our vendors and partners, or in otherwise accessing or obtaining without authorization the payment card information or other sensitive or confidential information we or our vendors and partners maintain, we could be subject to liability, loss of business, litigation, government investigations or other losses. Hackers or individuals who attempt to breach our security measures or those of our vendors and partners could, if successful, cause the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, or loss of personally identifiable information or other confidential information, including payment card information, suspend our web-hosting operations or cause malfunctions or interruptions in our networks. If we or our partners experience any breaches of our security measures or sabotage, or otherwise suffer unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, personally identifiable information or other confidential information, including payment card information, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or address these problems. We may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or other similar actors in a timely manner, or at all. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are launched against a target, we and our vendors and partners may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures on a timely basis. Advances in computer capabilities, discoveries of new weaknesses and other developments with software generally used by the Internet community, such as the Meltdown and Spectre vulnerabilities, which exploit security flaws in chips manufactured in the last 20 years, the Shellshock vulnerability in the Linux Bash shell, or WannaCry or Petya ransomware attacks, also increase the risk that we, or our customers using our servers, will suffer a security breach. Our partners and we may also suffer security breaches or unauthorized access to personally identifiable information and other confidential information, including payment card information, due to employee error, rogue employee activity, unauthorized access by third parties acting with malicious intent or who commit an inadvertent mistake or social engineering. If a breach of our security or other data security incident occurs or is perceived to have occurred, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and our reputation could be harmed and we could lose current and potential customers. Security breaches or other unauthorized access to personally identifiable information and other confidential information, including payment card information, could result in claims against us for unauthorized purchases with payment card information, identity theft or other similar fraud claims as well as for other misuses of personally identifiable information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Moreover, these claims could cause us to incur penalties from payment card associations (including those resulting from our failure to adhere to industry data security standards), termination by payment card associations of our ability to accept credit or debit card payments, litigation and adverse publicity, and regulatory or other government inquiries or investigations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches and other data security incidents. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of cloud-based products we offer and operate in more countries. We are exposed to the risk of system failures and capacity constraints. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, system failures and outages disrupting the operation of our websites or our products such as web-hosting and email, or the availability of our Customer Care operations. Our revenue depends in large part on the volume of traffic to our websites, the number of customers whose websites we host on our servers and the availability of our Customer Care operations. Accordingly, the performance, reliability and availability of our websites and servers for our corporate operations and infrastructure, as well as in the delivery of products to customers, are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers. We are continually working to expand and enhance our website features, technology and network infrastructure and other technologies to accommodate substantial increases in the volume of traffic on our godaddy.com and affiliated websites, the number of customer websites we host and our overall total customers. We may be unsuccessful in these efforts, or we may be unable to project accurately the rate or timing of these increases. In the future, we may be required to allocate resources, including 20 Table of Contents spending substantial amounts, to build, purchase or lease data centers and equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure in order to handle increased customer traffic, as well as increased traffic to customer websites we host. We cannot predict whether we will be able to add network capacity from third-party suppliers or otherwise as we require it. In addition, our network or our suppliers' networks might be unable to achieve or maintain data transmission capacity high enough to process orders or download data effectively in a timely manner. Our failure, or our suppliers' failure, to achieve or maintain high data transmission capacity could significantly reduce consumer demand for our products. Such reduced demand and resulting loss of traffic, cost increases, or failure to accommodate new technologies could harm our business, revenue and financial condition. Our systems, including those of our data centers and Customer Care operations, are also vulnerable to damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, physical and electronic break-ins and similar events. The property and business interruption insurance coverage we carry may not be adequate to compensate us fully for losses that may occur. We rely on third parties to perform certain key functions, and their failure to perform those functions could result in the interruption of our operations and systems and could result in significant costs and reputational damage to us. We rely on third parties to perform certain technology, processing, servicing and support functions on our behalf, and may in the future choose to transition a function previously managed by us to such third parties. For example, in 2018 we intend to transition from a combination of company-owned and co-located data centers to third-party cloud computing and hosting providers for the delivery of most of our products and storage of our data. In addition in 2018, we also intend to transition certain transactional accounting functions to a professional services firm. When we choose to transition a function to a third party, we may spend significant time and effort, incur higher costs than originally expected and experience delays in completing such transition. We may never realize any of the anticipated benefits of relying on such third parties, including acquisition of new customers, improved product features, and positive financial results. In addition, these third parties are vulnerable to operational and technological disruptions, which may negatively impact our ability to provide services to our customers, operate our business and fulfill our financial reporting obligations. We may have limited remedies against these third parties in the event of service disruptions. If third parties are unable to perform these functions on our behalf because of service interruptions or extended outages, or because those services are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms, our expenses could increase and our customers' use of our products could be impaired until equivalent services, if available, are identified, obtained and implemented, all of which could adversely affect our business. Evolving technologies and resulting changes in customer behavior or customer practices may impact the value of and demand for domain names. Historically, Internet users navigated to a website by directly typing its domain name into a web browser or navigation bar. The domain name serves as a branded, unique identifier not unlike a phone number or email address. However, people now use multiple methods to access websites. For example, people increasingly use search engines to find and access websites as an alternative to typing a website address directly into a web browser navigation bar. People increasingly use social networking and microblogging sites to find and access websites. Further, as people continue to access the Internet more frequently through applications on mobile devices, domain names may become less prominent and their value may decline. These evolving technologies and changes in customer behavior may have an adverse effect on our business and growth prospects. We rely on our marketing efforts and channels to promote our brand and acquire new customers. These efforts may require significant expense and may not be successful or cost-effective. We use a variety of marketing channels to promote our brand, including online keyword search, sponsorships and celebrity endorsements, television, radio and print advertising, email and social media marketing. If we lose access to one or more of these channels, such as online keyword search, because the costs of advertising become prohibitively expensive or for other reasons, we may become unable to promote our brand effectively, which could limit our ability to grow our business. Further, if our marketing activities fail to generate traffic to our website, attract customers and lead to new and renewal sales of our subscriptions at the levels we anticipate, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance our marketing efforts will succeed or be cost-efficient, and if our customer acquisition costs increase, our business, operating results and financial performance could be adversely affected. Our ability to increase sales of our products is highly dependent on the quality of our Customer Care. Our failure to provide high-quality Customer Care would have an adverse effect on our business, brand and operating results. Our Customer Care team has historically contributed significantly to our total bookings. In each of 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , at least 20% of our total bookings were generated from the sale of product subscriptions by our Customer Care team. 21 Table of Contents The majority of our current offerings are designed for customers who often self-identify as having limited to no technology skills. Our customers depend on our Customer Care to assist them as they create, manage and grow their digital identities. After launching their sites and leveraging our product offerings, customers depend on our Customer Care team to quickly resolve any issues relating to those offerings. Further, as we continue to broaden our portfolio of solutions, increase the size of our customer base and increase the size of our solution deployments within our customers' IT infrastructure, we must continue to adapt our customer support organization to ensure our customers continue to receive the high level of customer service which they have come to expect. Notwithstanding our commitment to Customer Care, our customers will occasionally encounter interruptions in service and other technical challenges and it is therefore critical we are there to provide ongoing, high-quality support to help our customers. We must continue to refine our efforts in Customer Care so we can adequately serve our domestic and international customers. If we do not provide effective ongoing Customer Care, our ability to sell our products to new and existing customers could be harmed, and our high subscription renewal rates and cross-selling of our products may decline and our reputation may suffer, any of which could adversely affect our business, reputation and operating results. We face significant competition for our products in the domain name registration and web-hosting markets and other markets in which we compete, which we expect will continue to intensify, and we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position or market share. We provide cloud-based solutions enabling individuals, businesses and organizations to establish an online presence, connect with customers and manage their ventures. The market for these solutions is highly fragmented and competitive. These solutions are also rapidly evolving, creating opportunity for new competitors to enter the market with point-solution products or address specific segments of the market. In some instances, we have commercial partnerships with companies with which we also compete. Given our broad product portfolio, we compete with niche point-solution products and broader solution providers. Our competitors include providers of domain registration services, web-hosting solutions, website creation and management solutions, e-commerce enablement providers, cloud computing service and online security providers, alternative web presence and marketing solutions providers and providers of productivity tools such as business-class email. We expect competition to increase in the future from competitors in the domain and hosting and presence markets, such as Endurance, United Internet, Web.com and Donuts, as well as competition from companies such as Google, Amazon and Microsoft, which provide web-hosting, other cloud-based services and domain name registration, and eBay and Facebook, which offer Internet marketing platforms. In addition, we face competition in the website and e-commerce site building market from competitors such as Wix, Squarespace and Shopify, and from providers of social media networks and applications including Facebook and Tencent. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, more brand recognition and consumer awareness, more diversified product offerings, greater international scope and larger customer bases than we do, and we may therefore not be able to effectively compete with them. If these competitors and potential competitors decide to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products in the markets in which we compete, or if the products offered by these companies are more attractive to or better meet the evolving needs of our customers, our market share, growth prospects and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, in an attempt to gain market share, competitors may offer aggressive price discounts or alternative pricing models on the products they offer, such as so-called freemium pricing in which a basic offering is provided for free with advanced features provided for a fee, or increase commissions paid to their referral sources. As a result, increased competition could result in lower sales, price reductions, reduced margins and the loss of market share. Moreover, competitors and other third-parties may aggressively bid on Google AdWords, which could result in increased marketing expenses making it difficult for us to compete. Furthermore, conditions in our market could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements, partnering by our competitors or continuing market consolidation. Innovative new start-up companies and large competitors making significant investments in technology and development may invent similar or superior products and technologies competing with our products and technology. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their ability to compete. The continued entry of competitors into the domain name registration and web-hosting markets, and the rapid growth of some competitors that have already entered each market, may make it difficult for us to maintain our market position. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to provide a better product than our competitors at a competitive price and supported by superior Customer Care. To remain competitive, we may be required to make substantial additional investments in research, development, marketing and sales in order to respond to competition, and there can be no assurance that these investments will achieve any returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. 22 Table of Contents The future growth of our business depends in significant part on increasing our international bookings. Our recent and continuing international expansion efforts subject us to additional risks. Bookings outside of the U.S. represented approximately 33% , 28% and 26% of our totals for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. In 2012, we began the process of localizing our products in numerous markets, languages and currencies, expanding our systems to accept payments in forms common outside of the U.S., focusing our marketing efforts in numerous non-U.S. geographies, tailoring our Customer Care offerings to serve these markets, expanding our infrastructure in various non-U.S. locations and establishing Customer Care operations in overseas locations. We have continued our international expansion efforts, such as our acquisition of HEG. Our international expansion efforts may be slow or unsuccessful to the extent we experience difficulties in recruiting, training, managing and retaining qualified personnel with international experience, language skills and cultural competencies in the geographic markets we target. Furthermore, as we continue to expand internationally, it may prove difficult to maintain our corporate culture, which we believe has been critical to our success. In addition, we have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions. Conducting and expanding international operations subjects us to new risks we have not generally faced in the U.S., including the following: management, communication and integration problems resulting from language barriers, cultural differences and geographic dispersion of our customers and personnel; language translation of, and associated Customer Care support for, our products; compliance with foreign laws, including laws regarding online disclaimers, advertising, liability of online service providers for activities of customers especially with respect to hosted content,and more stringent laws in foreign jurisdictions relating to consumer privacy and protection of data collected from individuals and other third parties; accreditation and other regulatory requirements to do business and to provide domain name registration, web-hosting and other products in foreign jurisdictions; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, including our universal terms of service and other agreements; increased expenses incurred in establishing and maintaining office space and equipment for our international operations; greater costs and expenses associated with international marketing and operations; greater risk of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs and tax laws and treaties; different or lesser degrees of protection for our or our customers' intellectual property and free speech rights in certain markets; increased exposure to foreign currency risks; increased risk of a failure of employees to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including export and antitrust regulations, anti-bribery regulations and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices; heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies; and the potential for political, social or economic unrest, terrorism, hostilities or war; and multiple and possibly overlapping tax regimes. In addition, the expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and financial resources. In particular, we have invested, and intend to continue to invest, in product marketing, infrastructure and personnel to support our international expansion efforts. These increased marketing costs may increase our cost of acquiring international customers, which may delay our ability to achieve profitability or reduce our profitability in the future. We may also face pressure to lower our prices in order to compete in emerging markets, which could adversely affect revenue derived from our international operations. These and other factors associated with our international operations could impair our growth prospects and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Mobile devices are increasingly used to access the Internet, and our cloud-based and mobile support products may not operate or be as effective when accessed through these devices, which could harm our business. Historically, we designed our web-based products for use on a desktop or laptop computer; however, mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets, are increasingly being used as the primary means for accessing the Internet and conducting e-commerce. We are dependent on the interoperability of our products with third-party mobile devices and mobile operating 23 Table of Contents systems, as well as web browsers we do not control. Any changes in such devices, systems or web browsers degrading the functionality of our products or giving preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect usage of our products. In the event our customers have difficulty accessing and using our products on mobile devices, our customer growth, business and operating results could be adversely affected. We have made significant investments in recent periods to support our growth strategy. These investments may not succeed. If we do not effectively manage future growth, our operating results will be adversely affected. We continue to increase the breadth and scope of our product offerings and operations. To support future growth, we must continue to improve our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and ability to effectively manage headcount, capital and processes. We must also continue to increase the productivity of our existing employees and hire, train and manage new employees while maintaining our unique corporate culture. If we fail to manage our growth or change in a manner that fails to preserve the key aspects of our corporate culture, the quality of our platform, products and Customer Care may suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to retain and attract customers and employees. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses relating to our investments in international operations and infrastructure, such as the expansion of our offerings and marketing presence in India, Europe, Latin America and Asia; our targeted marketing spending to attract new customer groups, such as Web Pros and customers in non-U.S. markets; and investments in software systems and additional data center resources to keep pace with the growth of our cloud infrastructure and cloud-based product offerings. We have made significant investments in product development, corporate infrastructure and technology and development, and intend to continue investing in the development of our products and infrastructure and our marketing and Customer Care teams. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower or may develop more slowly than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth over the last several years, which has the potential to strain our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. The scalability and flexibility of our infrastructure depends on the functionality and bandwidth of our data centers, peering sites and servers. The significant growth in our total customers and the increase in the number of transactions we process have increased the amount of our stored customer data. Any loss of data or disruption in our ability to provide our product offerings due to disruptions in our infrastructure or services could result in harm to our brand or reputation. Moreover, as our customer base continues to grow and uses our platform for more complicated tasks, we will need to devote additional resources to improve our infrastructure and continue to enhance its scalability and security. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our operating and business results. In January 2016, we selected a new enterprise resource planning system. During the fourth quarter of 2016, we completed the human capital management portion of our system implementation. We began work on the system implementation of the financial portion in 2017, and expect to continue that work through late 2018. As we plan for and implement a new system, we may experience difficulties in managing our existing systems and processes, which could disrupt our operations, the management of our finances and the reporting of our financial results. We may also experience difficulties in implementing this new system at the same time we work on several other initiatives, such as transitioning certain transactional accounting functions to a professional services firm, implementing a new revenue recognition system and implementing