Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, involving substantial risks and uncertainties. The words "believe," "may," "will," "potentially," "plan," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "project," "expect" and similar expressions conveying uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, among other things, those regarding: our ability to continue to add new customers and increase sales to our existing customers; our ability to develop new solutions and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing solutions; our dependence on establishing and maintaining a strong brand; the occurrence of service interruptions and security or privacy breaches; system failures or capacity constraints; the rate of growth of, and anticipated trends and challenges in, our business and in the market for our products; our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, including changes in technology and development, marketing and advertising, general and administrative and Customer Care expenses, and our ability to achieve and maintain, future profitability; our ability to continue efficiently acquiring customers, maintaining our high customer retention rates and maintaining the level of our customers lifetime spend; our ability to provide high quality Customer Care; the effects of increased competition in our markets and our ability to compete effectively; our ability to expand internationally; the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our business and our ability to effectively manage the exposure to such fluctuations; our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments; our ability to integrate recent or potential future acquisitions; our ability to maintain our relationships with our partners; adverse consequences of our substantial level of indebtedness; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to maintain or improve our market share; sufficiency of cash and cash equivalents to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our ability to stay in compliance with laws and regulations currently applicable to, or which may become applicable to, our business both in the United States and internationally; economic and industry trends or trend analysis; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; the amount and timing of any payments we make under tax receivable agreements (TRAs) or for tax distributions; as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects and business strategies. We operate in very competitive and rapidly-changing environments, and new risks emerge from time-to-time. It is not possible for us to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we 3 may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those implied in our forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances described in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Neither we, nor any other person, assume responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this report to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Unless expressly indicated or the context suggests otherwise, references to GoDaddy, we, us and our in this document refer (i) prior to the consummation of the organizational transactions described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements, included in "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," to Desert Newco, LLC (Desert Newco) and its consolidated subsidiaries and (ii) after the consummation of the organizational transactions, to GoDaddy Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Desert Newco. Throughout this document, we refer to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (together with its affiliates, KKR), Silver Lake Partners (together with its affiliates, Silver Lake) and Technology Crossover Ventures (together with its affiliates, TCV) collectively as the Sponsors. We refer to YAM Special Holdings, Inc. (formerly The Go Daddy Group, Inc.) as Holdings. We refer to Robert R. Parsons, the sole owner of Holdings, our founder and a member of our board of directors, as Bob Parsons. 4 Table of Contents Part I. Item 1. Business Our customers have bold aspirationsthe drive to be their own boss, write their own story and take a leap of faith to pursue their dreams. Launching that brewery, running that wedding planning service, organizing that fundraiser, expanding that web-design business or whatever sparks their passion. We are inspired by our customers, and are dedicated to helping them turn their powerful ideas into meaningful action. Our vision is to radically shift the global economy toward small business by empowering passionate individuals to easily start, confidently grow and successfully run their own ventures. Overview Our 13.8 million customers are people and organizations with vibrant ideasbusinesses, both large and small, entrepreneurs, universities, charities and hobbyists. They are defined by their guts, grit and determination to transform their ideas into something meaningful. They wear many hats and juggle many responsibilities, and they need to make the most of their time. Our customers need help navigating todays dynamic Internet environment and want the benefits of the latest technology to help them succeed. Since our founding in 1997, we have been a trusted partner and champion for organizations of all sizes in their quest to build successful online ventures. We are a leading technology provider to small businesses, web design professionals and individuals, delivering simple, easy to use cloud-based products and outcome-driven, personalized Customer Care. We operate the worlds largest domain marketplace, where our customers can find that unique piece of digital real estate perfectly matching their idea. We provide website building, hosting and security tools to help customers easily construct and protect their online presence. As our customers grow, we provide applications and access to relevant third party products helping them connect to their customers, manage and grow their businesses and get found online. Our customers need help navigating todays dynamic Internet environment and want the benefits of the latest technology to help them succeed. The increase in broadband penetration, mobile device usage and the need for presence across search engines, content destinations, listings and e-commerce sites, and social media channels create both opportunities and challenges for them. We offer products and solutions to help our customers tackle this rapidly changing technology landscape. We develop the majority of our products internally and believe our solutions are among the best in the industry in terms of comprehensiveness, performance, functionality and ease of use. Often technology companies force their customers to choose between technology and support, delivering one but not the other. At GoDaddy, we don't believe our customers should have to choose and strive to deliver both great technology and great support to our customers. We believe engaging with our customers in a proactive, consultative way helps them knock down the technology hurdles they face. And, through the thousands of conversations we have with our customers every day, we receive valuable feedback enabling us to continually evolve our products and solutions. Our people and unique culture have been integral to our success. We live by the same principles that enable new ventures to survive and thrive: hard work, perseverance, conviction, an obsession with customer satisfaction and a belief that no one can do it better. We take responsibility for driving successful outcomes and are accountable to our customers, which we believe has been a key factor in enabling our rapid customer and revenue growth. We believe we have one of the most recognized brands in technology. Our Size and Scale Our combination of easy to use, cloud-based products, personalized Customer Care, a powerful brand and a unique culture have helped us build an attractive business with strong financial performance. We are the global market leader in domain name registrationa key on-ramp to establishing a business online in our connected economywith approximately 62 million domains under management as of December 31, 2015 . According to VeriSigns Domain Name Industry Brief, we had 20% of the worlds domains registered as of September 30, 2015 . As of December 31, 2015 , we had 13.8 million customers and added 1.1 million customers in 2015 . 5 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2015 , we had more than 700,000 customers who each spent more than $500 a year. In each of the five years ended December 31, 2015 , our customer retention rate exceeded 85% and our retention rate for customers who had been with us for over three years was approximately 90% . In 2015 , we generated $1.9 billion in total bookings, up 14.3% (or approximately 17.5% on a constant currency basis) from $1.7 billion in 2014 . In 2015 , we had $1.6 billion of revenue, up 15.9% (or approximately 17.3% on a constant currency basis) from $1.4 billion in 2014 . As of December 31, 2015 , we provided localized solutions in 37 countries, 44 currencies and 17 languages. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , 26% of our total bookings were attributable to customers outside of the United States. Our highly-rated Customer Care team of more than 3,800 specialists is focused on providing high-quality, personalized care. As a result of their ongoing dialogue with customers, our Customer Care team also drives bookings and in 2015 generated approximately 24% of our total bookings. Our net loss was $120.4 million and $146.1 million in 2015 and 2014 , respectively. We generated $337.4 million of adjusted EBITDA in 2015 , up from $271.5 million in 2014 . Our Market Our customers represent a large and diverse market which we believe is largely underserved. According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, there were approximately 28 million small businesses in 2012 . Based on data from the 2012 U.S. Census Bureau and the U.S. Small Business Administration, over 85% of small businesses have fewer than five employees and approximately 23 million , or over 75% of, small businesses were non-employer firms. Furthermore, according to the International Labor Organization Statistics Database there were more than 200 million people outside the United States identified as self-employed in 2012 . Moreover, the Kauffman Index of Entrepreneurial Activity report estimates that in 2015 there were approximately 530,000 new business owners created each month in the United States. We believe our addressable market extends beyond small businesses and includes individuals and organizations, such as universities, charities and hobbyists. Despite the ubiquity and importance of the Internet to individual consumers, many small businesses and organizations have remained offline given their limited resources and inadequate tools. We believe approximately 60% of small businesses do not have a website. However, as proliferation of mobile devices blurs the online/offline distinction into an "always online" world, having an impactful online presence is becoming a "must have" for small businesses worldwide. What it means for small businesses and ventures to be online continues to evolve. Only a few years ago, an online presence typically consisted of a simple and static website with basic information, perhaps supported by limited search engine marketing. Today, having an effective online presence requires much more, including a content rich website viewable from any device; presence on social media sites and an increasing number of horizontal and vertical marketplaces (e.g. Yelp and OpenTable); branded email communication; online marketing; and Internet-enabled reservation and scheduling capabilities. In addition, back-end activities such as invoicing, payment processing, accounting and tax preparation, which are typically separate point solutions, can now increasingly be linked to the front-end. The shift toward dynamic online presence for small business has been fueled by the emergence of simpleyet powerfulcloud-based technologies that can easily be utilized by individuals with limited technical skills. Cloud technologies have helped enable the integration of front and back-end activities. Cloud-based products, which can be "rented" on a monthly or yearly basis, allow a business to more easily scale from a nascent idea to a thriving venture. The Parallels SMB Cloud Insights for Global 2014 report estimates the cloud market for small business was $62 billion in 2013 , and will double by 2016 , growing to $125 billion . Our Customers Our customers share common traits, such as tenacity and determination, yet their specific needs vary depending on the type and stage of their ventures. They range from individuals who are thinking about starting a business to established ventures that are up and running but need help attracting customers, growing their sales, managing their business or expanding their operations. While our customers have differing degrees of resources and technical capabilities, they all share a desire to bring their ideas to life. We call them GoGetters and they are united by a number of common characteristics: entrepreneurial spirit, strong work ethic and, above all, passion for their ventures. 6 Table of Contents Our target customers are primarily local service-based businesses. Most of our customers have fewer than five employees and most identify themselves as having little to no technology skills. They need our help to give their businesses a unique and secure digital identity and tools to help them stay connected with their customers. To serve our customers well at every phase of their business, we group them into multiple stages of growth, starting with "nascent" and evolving to "established and content." We have also identified special groups like the "digital commerce" group which is made up of web-savvy individuals who utilize digital commerce platforms as their primary business vehicles. We also serve a group of customers consisting of web-designers and web-developerswho we call "Web Pros"who are in the business of building, designing and managing the online presence of others. Each of these groups is unique in their needs, and we personalize our solutions to meet them at each stage in their lifecycle. Our OpportunityWhat the GoGetter Needs Our customers are consumers themselves and use the Internet to get informed, research and shop for solutions, which makes them keenly aware of the need to have an impactful online presence. While our customers needs change depending on where they are in their lifecycle, the most common customer needs we serve include: Getting online and looking great . Our customers want to find a name perfectly identifying their business, hobby or passion. Once they have a name, they want to create a digital identity so their customers can find, engage and transact with them online. We believe a complete digital identity includes an elegant, mobile-enabled website and the ability to get found across various search engines, social media platforms and vertical marketplaces. Growing their business and running their operations . Our customers need to communicate with their existing customers and find new customers. They also need tools to help them run their businesses, from productivity and marketing tools to getting paid and balancing their books. In todays online world, these activities are increasingly linked to a customers online presence. Easy to use products with help from a real person when needed . Our customers want easy-to-use products and sometimes they need help from real people to set up their website, launch a new feature or try something new. We build products that are intuitive for beginners to use, yet robust and feature-rich to address the needs of expert designers and power-users. We also provide high quality, consultative Customer Care and advise our customers as needed. Technology that grows with them . Our customers need a simple platform and set of tools enabling their domain, website and other solutions to easily work together as their business grows and becomes more complex, and they need that platform to be simple to manage. The right platform can meet the needs of both an entrepreneur who is not technologically savvy and a Web Pro with a more complex set of requirements. Reliability, security and performance . Our customers expect reliable products and want to be confident their digital presence is secure. Our customers work on their businesses whenever and however they can and need solutions fitting their lifestyle and schedule. Affordable solutions . Our customers often have limited financial resources and are unable to make large, upfront investments in the latest technology. Our customers need affordable solutions leveling the playing field and giving them the tools to look and act like bigger businesses. Our SolutionWhat We Do and How We Do It We built GoDaddy to serve the GoGetter by providing elegant, easy to use, cloud-based products wrapped with personalized Customer Care. Our customers turn to us in order to: Get a great domain name . Every great idea needs a great name. Staking a claim with a domain name has become the de facto first step in establishing an idea and presence online. When inspiration strikes, we are there to provide our customers with high-quality search, discovery and recommendation tools as well as the broadest selection of domains to help them find the right name for their venture. Turn their domain into a dynamic online presence . Our products enable anyone to build an elegant website or online store, for both desktop and mobile, regardless of technical skill. Our products, powered by a unified cloud 7 Table of Contents platform, enable our customers to get found online by extending their website and its content to where they need to be, from search engine results (e.g. Google) to social media (e.g. Facebook) to vertical marketplaces (e.g. Yelp and FourSquare), all from one location. For more technically-sophisticated web designers, developers and customers, we provide high-performance, flexible hosting and security products that can be used with a variety of open source design tools. We design these solutions to be easy to use, effective, reliable, flexible and a great value. Add back-office and marketing products . Our customers want to spend their time on what matters most to them, selling their products or services or helping their customers do the same. We provide them with productivity tools such as domain-specific email, online storage, invoicing and payment solutions to help run their ventures as well as robust marketing products, such as email marketing, to attract and retain customers. Use our products together in a solution that grows with our customers over time . Our API-driven technology platform is built on state-of-the-art, open source technologies like Hadoop, OpenStack and other large-scale, distributed systems. Simply put, we believe our products work well together and are more valuable and easier to use together than if our customers purchased these products individually from other companies and tried to integrate them. Additionally, our platform allows our developers to innovate new and enhanced products or product features assembled from common building blocks leading to faster deployment cycles. Receive assistance from our highly-rated Customer Care team . Our Customer Care team consists of more than 3,800 specialists who are available 24/7/365 and are capable of providing care to customers with different levels of technical sophistication. Our specialists are evaluated on customer outcomes and the quality of the experience they provide, not other common measures like handle time and cost per call. We strive to provide high-quality, personalized care and deliver a distinctive experience helping us create loyal customers who renew their subscriptions, purchase additional products and refer their family and friends to us. Utilize a reliable, secure, global technology platform and infrastructure . In 2015 , we handled on average more than 15.2 billion DNS queries per day and hosted approximately 10 million websites on servers located throughout our worldwide data centers. We focus on online security, customer privacy and reliable infrastructure to address the evolving needs of our customers. Receive high value . We price most of our products at a few dollars per month while providing our customers with robust features and functionality. We believe our high-quality products and personalized Customer Care provide our customers with an affordable bridge between their available resources and their aspirations. Our AdvantagesWhy We Win We believe the following strengths provide us with competitive advantages in realizing the potential of our opportunity: We are the leading domain name marketplace, a key on-ramp in establishing a digital identity . We are the global market leader in domain name registration. According to VeriSigns Domain Name Industry Brief, we held over 20% of the more than 299 million worldwide domain names under management as of September 30, 2015. As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 62 million domains under management. We combine an integrated cloud-technology platform with rich data science . At our core, we are a product and technology company. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 811 engineers, 164 issued patents and 211 pending patent applications in the United States. Our investment in technology and development and our data science capabilities enable us to innovate and deliver a personalized experience to our customers. We operate an industry-leading Customer Care team that also drives bookings . We give our customers much more than typical customer support. Our team is unique, blending personalized Customer Care with the ability to evaluate our customers needs, which allows us to help and advise them as well as drive incremental bookings for our business. Our Customer Care team contributed approximately 24% of our total bookings in 2015 . Our customers respond to our personalized approach with high marks for customer satisfaction. Our proactive Customer Care model is a key component helping create a long-term customer relationship, which is reflected in our high retention rates. Our brand and marketing efficiency . We believe GoDaddy is one of the most recognized technology brands in the United States. Through a combination of cost-effective direct-marketing, brand advertising and customer referrals, 8 Table of Contents we have increased our total customers from 9.4 million as of December 31, 2011 to 13.8 million as of December 31, 2015 . Our financial model . Our stable and predictable business model is driven by efficient customer acquisition, high customer retention rates and increasing lifetime spend. In each of the five years ended December 31, 2015 , our customer retention rate exceeded 85% and our retention rate for customers who had been with us for over three years was approximately 90% . We believe the breadth and depth of our product offerings and the high quality and responsiveness of our Customer Care team builds strong relationships with our customers and are keys to our high level of customer retention. Our people and our culture . We are a company whose people embody the grit and determination of our customers. Our world-class engineers, scientists, designers, marketers and Customer Care specialists share a passion for technology and its ability to change our customers lives. We value hard work, extraordinary effort, living passionately, taking intelligent risks and working together toward successful customer outcomes. Our relentless pursuit of doing right for our customers has been a crucial ingredient to our growth. Our scale . We have achieved significant scale in our business which enables us to efficiently acquire new customers, serve our existing customers and continue to invest in growth. In 2015 , we generated $1.9 billion in total bookings up from $1.1 billion in 2011 , representing a CAGR, of 15% . In 2015 , we had $1.6 billion of revenue up from $862.9 million in 2011 , representing a CAGR of 17% . In the five years ended December 31, 2015 , we invested to support our growth with $1.1 billion and $ 764.1 million in technology and development expenses and marketing and advertising expenses, respectively. Our StrategyHow We Grow We are pursuing the following principal strategies to drive our business: Expand and innovate our product offerings . Our product innovation priorities include: Delivering the next generation of naming . The first generation of naming included a limited set of gTLDs, such as .com and .net, and country code top-level domains (ccTLDs), such as .uk and .in. With over 299 million existing domains registered, it may be increasingly difficult for customers to find the name best suiting their needs. As a result, ICANN has authorized the introduction of more than 1,300 new gTLDs, which began in late 2013 and will continue over the next several years. These newly introduced gTLDs include names geared toward professions (e.g. .photography), personal interests (e.g. .guru), and geographies (e.g. .london, .nyc and .vegas) and are just plain fun (e.g. .ninja). Additionally, we believe there is great potential in the emerging secondary market to match buyers to sellers who already own domains. In January 2016, we launched the GoDaddy Investor mobile application to help investors watch and bid on domains at auction and stay on top of their current bids, all from their mobile device. We continue to invest in search, discovery and recommendation tools and transfer protocols for the combined markets of primary and secondary domains. Powering elegant and effortless presence . We continue to invest in tools, templates and technology to make the process of building a professional looking mobile or desktop website simple and easy. Additionally, we are investing in products helping our customers drive their customer acquisition efforts by managing their presence across search engines, social networks and vertical marketplaces. Making the business of business easy . Our business applications range from domain-specific email and email marketing to payment tools and help our customers grow their ventures. We intend to continue investing in the breadth of our product offerings helping our customers connect with their customers and run their businesses. Win the Web Pros . We are investing in our end-to-end Web Pro offerings ranging from open APIs to our platform, delegation products and administrative tools as well as dedicated Customer Care resources. Our acquisition of Media Temple and launch of GoDaddy Pro further expanded our Web Pro offerings, bolstered our Web Pro-focused Customer Care team and extended our reach into the Web Pro community. Go global . As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 31% of our customers were located in international markets, notably Canada, India and the United Kingdom. We began investing in the localization of our service offerings in 9 Table of Contents markets outside of the United States in 2012 and, as of December 31, 2015 , we offered localized products and Customer Care in 37 countries, 44 currencies and 17 languages. To support our international growth, we will continue investing to develop our local capabilities across products, marketing programs, data centers and Customer Care. Partner up . Our flexible platform also enables us to acquire companies and quickly launch new products for our customers, including the launch of a series of partnerships ranging from Microsoft Office 365 for email to PayPal for payments. We have also acquired companies and technologies to complement our product offerings. We intend to continue identifying technology acquisition targets and partnership opportunities that add value for our customers. Make it personal . We seek to leverage data and insights to personalize the product and Customer Care experiences of our customers as well as tailor our solutions and marketing efforts to each of our customer groups. We are constantly seeking to improve our website, marketing programs and Customer Care to intelligently reflect where customers are in their lifecycle and identify their specific product needs. We intend to continue investing in our technology and data platforms to further enable our personalization efforts. Wrap it with Care . We believe our highly-rated Customer Care team is distinctive and essential to the lifetime value proposition we offer our customers. We continue to invest in our Customer Care team, including investing to improve the quality of our Customer Care resources as well as to introduce improved tools and processes across our expanding global footprint. Products We have designed and developed an extensive set of easy to use, cloud-based technology products enabling our customers to establish a digital presence, connect with their customers and manage their business operations. We understand our customers needs vary depending on the type and stage of their venture, which is why we offer our products both independently and bundled as suites of integrated products designed for specific activities. Our domain name registration product enables us to engage customers at the initial stage of establishing a digital identity and acts as an on-ramp for our hosting, presence and business application products. We believe our hosting, presence and business application products increase our revenue and margin growth opportunities, frequently serve as starting points for our customer relationships, improve customer retention and significantly improve our value proposition to customers. Domains We are the global market leader in domain name registration. Securing a domain is a necessary first step to creating a digital identity and our domain products often serve as the starting point in our customer relationships. As of December 31, 2015 , more than 93% of our customers had purchased a domain from us, and as of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 62 million domains under management. In 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , we generated approximately 52% , 55% and 59% of our total revenue, respectively, from sales of our domain products. Our primary domains product offerings are: Primary Registrations . Using our website or mobile application, we offer customers the ability to search for and register available domain names, or primary registrations, with the relevant registry. Our inventory for primary registrations is defined by the number of TLDs we offer. As of December 31, 2015 , 367 different gTLDs, such as .com, .net and .org, and 50 different ccTLDs, such as .de, .ca, .in and .jp. were available for purchase through our primary registration product. New gTLDs launched in 2013 include names geared toward professions (e.g. .photography), personal interests (e.g. .guru), and geographies (e.g. .london, .nyc and .vegas) and are just plain fun (e.g. .ninja). As of December 31, 2015 , 357 new gTLD offerings were available for purchase through our primary registration product. These new gTLDs make it easier for companies and individuals to find and register new, easy-to-remember domain names tailored to their business, industry or interests that may not have been available in the relatively crowded, traditional gTLDs such as .com. ccTLDs are important to our international expansion efforts as we have found international customers often prefer the ccTLD for the country or geographic market in which they operate. Our primary registration offering relies heavily on our search, discovery and recommendation tools which enable our customers to find a name matching their needs. 10 Table of Contents Domain Name Add-Ons . Domain name add-ons are features a customer can add to a domain name registration. Our domain name privacy product allows our customers to register a domain name on an "unlisted" basis. This product helps prevent privacy intrusions, helps deter domain related spam and allows our customers to confidentially secure a domain for an unannounced product, service or idea. Domain name add-ons are typically purchased concurrently with domain name registrations and have minimal costs associated with their delivery. A ftermarket . We operate the worlds largest domain aftermarket which processes aftermarket, or secondary, domain name sales. Our aftermarket platform, which we substantially supplemented through our acquisition of Afternic in 2013, is designed to enable the seamless purchase and sale of an already registered domain name through an online auction, an offer and counter-offer transaction or a "buy now" transaction. In 2015 , we acquired approximately 278,000 premium domain names to increase the inventory available to our customers. In January 2016, we launched the GoDaddy Investor mobile application to help investors watch and bid on domains at auction and stay on top of their current bids, all from their mobile device. We operate a cross-registrar network that automates transaction execution across registrars thereby reducing the time required to complete a transaction. We receive a percentage of the sales price for each domain sold. Hosting and Presence We offer a variety of hosting and presence products enabling our customers to create and manage their digital identity, or in the case of Web Pros, the digital identities of their end-customers. As of December 31, 2015 , we hosted approximately 10 million websites. In 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , we derived approximately 37% , 37% and 34% of our total revenue, respectively, from sales of our hosting and presence products. Our primary hosting products are: Shared Website Hosting . The term "shared hosting" refers to the housing of multiple websites on the same server and is our most popular hosting product. We operate, maintain and support shared website hosting in our owned and operated data center and our leased co-located data center facilities using either Linux or Windows operating systems. We currently offer three tiers of shared website hosting plans to suit the needs and resources of our customers, all of which use industry standard cPanel or Parallels Plesk control panels. We also bundle our hosting plans with a variety of applications and products such as web analytics and SSL certificates. Website Hosting on Virtual Dedicated Servers and Dedicated Servers . Our virtual dedicated and dedicated servers provide customers with greater control and higher performance than our shared hosting plans. Our virtual dedicated hosting offering utilizes software to partition a single physical server allowing it to function as multiple servers. Our dedicated server offering provides customers with a server reserved exclusively for their use. Both of these products are designed to meet the requirements of customers with more advanced technical capabilities and needs by providing the customer with full control of and electronic access to their server. We offer customers the ability to tailor their plan based on a range of hardware, performance, storage, bandwidth, operating system and control features. Managed Hosting . With our managed hosting product, we set up, monitor, maintain, secure and patch the dedicated server for the customer so our managed hosting customers get the benefits of a dedicated server without the responsibility of actually running the server. We can also install and maintain a variety of web applications such as WordPress, Joomla, Magento and Gallery on behalf of our customers upon request. We offer a variety of managed hosting plans tailored to our customers needs as well as our Expert Hands offering, which provides additional custom support services at an hourly rate. Security . Our security products include SSL certificates and malware scanners. According to Netcraft, we are the worlds third largest provider of SSL certificates. An SSL certificate validates a customers website identity and encrypts online transactional information, such as credit card information, and communications sent to or by the website. We offer a variety of SSL certificates all of which provide high-grade, 256-bit encryption. Our SSL certificate offerings include multiple domain SSLs and "wildcard" SSL certificates, which secure a singular website URL as well as subdomains on that URL (e.g. protectmyvisitors.com and cart.protectmyvisitors.com). We also offer "code signing certificates" designed to prove the identity of software authors and validate that the software has not been tampered with since its original distribution. Cloud Services and Cloud Applications . Our cloud servers are a non-managed cloud product built on our OpenStack platform. Cloud servers allow our customers to easily create and manage servers on their own and pay for only the resources they 11 Table of Contents actually use. Our cloud applications product is designed to be a flexible solution, supporting over 100 popular open source applications and technology stacks that can be "right sized" in order to meet our customers' needs. Our primary presence products are: Website Builder . Our Website Builder is an easy to use, do it yourself online tool enabling customers, irrespective of their technical skills, to build elegant websites. We offer a variety of plans, with pricing dependent on the number of available design styles and desired business and marketing features. With each of these plans, customers have access to hundreds of professional designs which can be further customized using our drag-and-drop editor by adding photos, graphics or text. Our designs cover a wide range of categories with professionally written content for small businesses, organizations, families, athletic teams, weddings, reunions and other interest groups. Once built, websites can be easily connected to social profiles, such as Facebook and Twitter, and optimized for search engines using Website Builder. Our customers are also able to receive a mobile-optimized version of their website through Website Builder. E-commerce . Our online store product allows customers to easily create their own standalone online store or add one to an existing website. It allows customers to post their product catalogs, integrate online sales information with Intuits QuickBooks product, list products for auction on eBay, streamline shipping logistics, accept credit card and PayPal payments on their websites and market their websites through Google services. We also offer our customers easy to use merchant accounts, which are required to process credit card payments. Search Engine Visibility . Search Engine Visibility (SEV) helps our customers get their websites found on major search sites through search engine optimization. SEV offers a simple step-by-step wizard giving targeted recommendations on which search phrases are most likely to drive traffic to a customers site. All customers receive specific recommendations on keywords and content. Customers who are using a GoDaddy domain name and GoDaddy DNS can also automatically apply the updates with one click, meaning they never have to touch a line of code. Business Applications We offer a variety of products designed to make the business of business easier for our customers. The products we offer include those developed in-house as well as third-party applications which we distribute and support, such as Microsoft Office 365. In 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , we derived approximately 11% , 8% and 7% of our total revenue, respectively, from sales of our business applications. Our primary business application products are: Email Accounts . We offer email accounts which use our customers domains and include a multi-feature web interface for both desktop and mobile devices, accompanied by an integrated calendar and secure online storage. We offer a variety of plans, with pricing dependent on the customers desired amount of storage and number of email addresses. All of our email accounts are advertising-free and include security functionality designed to provide protection from spam, viruses and other forms of online fraud, such as phishing. Microsoft Office 365 . We offer Microsoft Office 365 in a simple, supported process providing email accounts which use our customers domains and some of which include secure online storage. We offer Microsoft Office 365 in multiple plans ranging from email with calendar and contacts connected to a custom domain to a full suite of productivity tools, including file sharing and full desktop versions of applications, including Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint. It is easy to set up and can be up and running in minutes. Email Marketing . Our email marketing product helps customers market their businesses through permission-based email. Customers can easily create and send newsletters, targeted advertising campaigns, promotions and surveys as well as connect email campaigns with their social media networks and track the results of campaigns through our email marketing product. 12 Table of Contents Technology and Infrastructure Our technology platform forms the core of many of our solutions, and we have invested significantly to develop a platform designed to be intelligent, fast, secure and scalable. Our technology and development expenses, including those expenses related to our technology platform, were $270 million , $251 million and $206 million in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. We have built a scalable platform allowing us to provide faster business insights at lower costs, develop and introduce new products quickly and leverage economies of scale to reduce costs and enable next-generation hosting architecture. Our technology stack, which includes physical infrastructure, Infrastructure-as-a-Service, Platform-as-a-Service, applications and data science, allows our customers to build and manage their digital identities and enable access across multiple devices. We seek to continuously enhance the performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure by investing in faster data centers, peering sites and local points of presence, both domestically and internationally. Physical infrastructure Our physical technology infrastructure includes servers located throughout nine data centers around the world. We have also invested significantly in our peering architecture and utilize multiple peering sites allowing us to handle high IP transit traffic at low bandwidth costs. Our large technology infrastructure footprint allows us to leverage economies of scale through low server, network, storage and processing costs by commoditizing hardware across various systems and leveraging virtualization where possible. Infrastructure-as-a-Service We leverage an Infrastructure-as-a-Service model geared toward the virtualization and automation of common physical data center components like servers, load balancers, switches and storage. We use open source solutions when possible to eliminate manual processes and thereby reduce the risk of human error as well as to lower costs. Additionally, we are beginning to use a single automated infrastructure based on OpenStack to enable next-generation hosting architecture. Platform-as-a-Service Our cloud platform offers our customers an integrated and comprehensive set of services saving them time. Our platform is designed to help us reduce costs, increase personalization and more easily and quickly build and deploy new products. We continuously invest to develop our platform capabilities and have recently deployed a new authentication platform allowing us to onboard new products more quickly and securely. We have also deployed Cassandra, an open source distributed database management system, across our datacenters for improved customer data replication enabling personalization. Applications Our platform is highly flexible which allows us to easily integrate third-party offerings and enhance our value proposition to our customers by offering comprehensive and integrated solutions that can be rapidly scaled up or down and used across multiple platforms, including mobile. Our platform also allows resellers to easily sell our products, thereby broadening our distribution. We seek to continuously launch new and relevant applications and streamline our existing offerings in order to provide the best user experience to our customers. Data science Our data collection technology enables us to collect customer, product and business data from various sources, including web crawling, local listings providers (e.g. Yelp and state business registrations), social platforms (e.g. Facebook and Twitter) and mobile platforms (e.g. geolocation and e-commerce). We use Hadoop, an open source software framework for storage and large-scale processing of data sets, to develop an integrated customer insights data platform. By integrating this data, we are able to offer personalized and intelligent insights and business intelligence to our customers that they can access via dashboards. These dashboards also enhance our ability to develop and deploy differentiated products and more intelligent Customer Care. We believe our ability to offer this insight helps us deliver the right solutions targeted to the needs of our customers and attract more businesses to our platform. 13 Table of Contents Customer Care We have more than 3,800 Customer Care specialists who provide technical assistance on a 24/7/365 basis to new and existing customers located around the world. Operating as "business consultants," our specialists advise customers of products best suiting their individual needs. This ability to provide real-time product suggestions to customers after providing a world-class support experience allows our Customer Care team to provide an impactful contribution to bookings through the sale of product subscriptions, including domain products, hosting and presence offerings and business applications. Our Customer Care specialists take great pride in owning outcomes and being accountable to our customers, both of which are essential to enhancing customer experience. In each of the years 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , at least 23% of our total bookings were generated from the sale of product subscriptions by our Customer Care team. The majority of our Customer Care specialists are located in our Arizona and Iowa facilities in the United States. We have additional specialists in Europe and India to provide in-region support in languages native to many of the regions we serve. In addition, our easy to use website contains extensive educational content designed to demystify the process of establishing an online presence and to assist customers in choosing the products best meeting their needs. Our Customer Care team has handled over 12 million contacts per year in each of the last three years ended December 31, 2015 and spans a variety of channels to provide tailored and timely support to our customers. Our customers can choose their preferred Customer Care channel, including proactive and reactive chat and phone support. We take a consultative approach to our customers, acting as a trusted partner to guide them through the process with technical solutions supporting them at each phase of their lifecycle and offer real-time product suggestions best suited to the customers needs. The effectiveness of our model is reflected in the high ratings we receive from our customers, the bookings generated by our Customer Care team and strong customer referrals. The strength of our Customer Care team is our people. Our hiring process is extensive and highly selective, designed to yield individuals who will thrive in our team based on core values, character, work ethic and ability. Our new Customer Care hires spend over a month moving from classroom to a live "nesting" environment where they refine their customer and technology skills. With a commitment to life-long learning, we offer over 400 classes to our employees spanning leadership, sales, service and technology. We have an incentive program that rewards outcomes, across both customer satisfaction and bookings goals. For that and many other reasons, as of December 31, 2015 , approximately 33% of our Customer Care specialists had been with us for at least three years. Marketing We believe GoDaddy is one of the most recognized technology brands in the United States. We have established this high level of brand awareness primarily through our advertising campaigns across various platforms including television commercials, print, online and billboards. We have supplemented these advertising campaigns with athlete and celebrity sponsorships. Our strong brand has helped us attract and retain 13.8 million customers as of December 31, 2015 . We intend to continue investing in our brand as we seek to further grow our total customers, particularly internationally. Customer referrals are another highly efficient and cost-effective channel for acquiring customers. We complement our brand marketing efforts with highly focused and metric-driven direct response marketing to acquire new customers. We use a variety of targeted online marketing programs for lead generation, including search engine marketing, search engine optimization and targeted email and social media marketing campaigns, as well as more traditional direct marketing and indirect channel partner marketing programs, to drive interest in our products and traffic to our websites. As part of this effort, we regularly run numerous campaigns simultaneously and constantly refine our media mix across our channels. International We have more than 4 million customers outside of the United States in approximately 250 countries. In 2015 , we derived 26% of our total bookings from international sales compared to 25% in 2014 and 24% in 2013 . Historically, we were primarily focused on the U.S. market and only offered international customers our U.S.-centric product offerings, without any localization or meaningful international marketing efforts. We believe our international scale and growth to date are indicative of the international growth opportunities available to us and position us to continue to grow our business internationally. 14 Table of Contents We recently began devoting substantial, dedicated resources to growing our international presence. This led to the establishment of our Customer Care center in India in 2012 , the initial introduction of localized websites and products in 2013 and the expansion of these localized products and Customer Care to 37 countries, 44 currencies and 17 languages as of December 31, 2015 . Central to our international strategy is a philosophy of localizing our product offerings and deploying them through our global infrastructure. We built a team of more than 35 people to date who are responsible for the internationalization and localization of our core product offerings as well as our Customer Care and marketing efforts. In conjunction with our localization efforts, we have added on-the-ground regional teams and increased our country and regional specific marketing spend. These investments have enabled us to successfully launch our business in select international markets. Our success in these markets has furthered our belief that our international model can work in both established and emerging markets. We have taken a rigorous approach to managing the level of investment we expect to make in each geographic market we enter based on a market tier approach. We expect to continue to expand internationally, targeting additional markets in Europe, Asia and the Middle East over the next several years. Competition We provide cloud-based solutions enabling individuals, businesses and organizations to establish an online presence, connect with customers and manage their ventures. The market for providing these solutions is highly fragmented with some vendors providing part of the solution, and highly competitive with many existing competitors. These solutions are also rapidly evolving, creating opportunity for new competitors to enter the market with point product solutions or addressing specific segments of the market. In some instances, we have commercial partnerships with companies with which we also compete. Given our broad product portfolio, we compete with niche point-solution products and broader solution providers. Our competitors include providers of: traditional domain registration services and web-hosting solutions such as Endurance, Rightside, United Internet and Web.com; website creation and management solutions and e-commerce enablement providers such as Shopify, Squarespace, Wix and WordPress; cloud-infrastructure services and online security providers such as Rackspace and Symantec; alternative web presence and marketing solutions providers such as Constant Contact, OpenTable, Yelp and Zillow; and productivity tools including business-class email, calendaring, file-sharing and payments such as Dropbox, Intuit, Square and Xero. We expect continued competition from competitors in the domain, hosting and presence markets such as Endurance, Rightside, United Internet and Web.com, as well as potential increased competition from companies like Amazon, Google and Microsoft, all of which are providers of web-hosting and other cloud-based services and have recently entered the domain name registration business as upstream registries, and eBay and Facebook, both of which offer robust Internet marketing platforms. We believe the principal competitive factors include: product capabilities meeting customer requirements, a secure, reliable and integrated technology platform, cost-effective customer acquisition, brand awareness and reputation, customer service and support and overall customer satisfaction. We believe we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. For additional information, see "Risk Factors." Regulation Our business is subject to regulation by ICANN, federal and state laws in the United States and the laws of other jurisdictions in which we do business. ICANN . The registration of domain names is governed by ICANN. ICANN is a multi-stakeholder private sector, not-for-profit corporation formed in 1998 operating pursuant to a memorandum of understanding with the U.S. Department of Commerce for the express purposes of overseeing a number of Internet related tasks, including managing the DNS, allocation of IP addresses, accreditation of domain name registrars and registries and the definition and coordination of policy development for all of these 15 Table of Contents functions. We are accredited by ICANN as a domain name registrar and thus our ability to offer domain name registration products is subject to our ongoing relationship with and accreditation by ICANN. The regulation of Internet domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. In particular, on March 14, 2014 , the NTIA announced its intention to transition key Internet domain name functions to the global multi-stakeholder community. At this time there is uncertainty concerning the timing, nature and significance of any transition from U.S. oversight of ICANN to oversight of ICANN by another body or bodies. ccTLD Authorities . The regulation of ccTLDs is governed by national regulatory agencies of the country underlying the specific ccTLDs, such as China (.cn), Canada (.ca) and the United Kingdom (.uk). Our ability to sell ccTLDs is dependent on our and our partners ability to maintain accreditation in good standing with these various international authorities. Advertising and promotional information presented on our websites and in our products, and our other marketing and promotional activities, are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws regulating unfair and deceptive practices. U.S. federal, state, and foreign legislatures have also adopted laws and regulations regulating numerous other aspects of our business. Regulations relating to the Internet, including laws governing online content, user privacy, taxation, liability for third-party activities and jurisdiction, are particularly relevant to our business. Such laws and regulations are discussed below. Communications Decency Act . The CDA regulates content of material on the Internet, and provides immunity to Internet service providers and providers of interactive computer services for certain claims based on content posted by third parties. The CDA and the case law interpreting it generally provide that domain name registrars and website hosting providers cannot be liable for defamatory or obscene content posted by customers on their servers unless they participate in creating or developing the content. Digital Millennium Copyright Act . The DMCA provides domain name registrars and website hosting providers a safe harbor from liability for third-party copyright infringement. To qualify for the safe harbor, however, registrars and website hosting providers must satisfy numerous requirements, including adoption of a user policy providing for termination of service access of users who are repeat infringers, informing users of this policy, and implementing the policy in a reasonable manner. In addition, registrars and website hosting providers must expeditiously remove or disable access to content upon receiving a proper notice from a copyright owner alleging infringement of its protected works. A registrar or website hosting provider failing to comply with these safe harbor requirements may be found liable for copyright infringement. Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act . The ACPA was enacted to address piracy on the Internet by curtailing a practice known as "cybersquatting," or the bad-faith registration of a domain name identical or similar to another partys trademark, or to the name of another living person, in order to profit from that name or mark. The ACPA provides that registrars may not be held liable for damages for registration or maintenance of a domain name for another person absent a showing of the registrars bad faith intent to profit. Registrars may, however, be held liable if their activities are deemed outside the scope of basic registrar functions. Lanham Act . The Lanham Act governs trademarks and false advertising. Case law interpreting the Lanham Act has limited liability for many online service providers such as search engines and domain name registrars. Nevertheless, there is no statutory safe harbor for trademark violations comparable to the provisions of the DMCA and we may be subject to a variety of trademark claims in the future. Privacy and Data Protection . In the areas of personal privacy and data protection, the U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on, and requirements associated with, the collection, distribution, use, storage, and security of personal information of individuals. If our practices with respect to the collection, distribution, storage, or security of personal information are challenged, we may not be able to demonstrate adequate compliance with existing or future laws or regulations. In addition, in the European Union member states and certain other countries outside the U.S., data protection is more highly regulated and rigidly enforced. As we conduct and expand our business within these countries, we expect compliance with these regulatory schemes to be more burdensome and costly for us. Laws and regulations relating to our activities are unsettled in many jurisdictions, or may prove difficult or impossible to comply with in some jurisdictions. Additionally, federal, state, local and foreign governments are also considering legislative and regulatory proposals that would regulate the Internet and our activities in more and different ways than exist today. It also is impossible to predict whether new taxes will be imposed on our services, and depending upon the type of such taxes, whether and 16 Table of Contents how we would be affected. Laws and regulations in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions may be applied in new or different manners in pending or future litigation. Further, other existing bodies of law, including the criminal laws of various jurisdictions, may be deemed to apply to our activities, or new statutes or regulations may be adopted in the future. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights Our intellectual property and proprietary rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality and access-related procedures and safeguards and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technologies, confidential information, brands and other intellectual property. We have also developed, acquired or licensed proprietary technologies for use in our business. As of December 31, 2015 we had 164 issued patents in the United States covering various aspects of our product offerings. Additionally, as of December 31, 2015 , we had 211 pending U.S. patent applications and intend to file additional patent applications in the future. We have non-disclosure, confidentiality and license agreements with employees, contractors, customers and other third parties, which limit access to and use of our proprietary information. Though we rely in part upon these legal and contractual protections, as well as various procedural safeguards, we believe the skill and ingenuity of our employees, the functionality and frequent enhancements to our solutions and our ability to introduce new products and features meeting the needs of our customers are more important to maintaining our competitive position in the marketplace. We have an ongoing trademark and service mark registration program pursuant to which we register our brand names and product names, taglines and logos in the United States and other countries to the extent we determine appropriate and cost-effective. We also have common law rights in some unregistered trademarks that were established over years of use. In addition, we have a trademark and service mark enforcement program pursuant to which we monitor applications filed by third parties to register trademarks and service marks that may be confusingly similar to ours, as well as the use of our major brand names in social media, domain names and other Internet sites. Despite our efforts to preserve and protect our intellectual property, unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain access to our proprietary rights, and competitors may attempt to develop solutions that could compete with us in the markets we serve. Unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information or proprietary technologies by our employees or third parties could also occur. The risk of unauthorized use of our proprietary and intellectual property rights may increase as we continue to expand outside of the United States. Third-party infringement claims are also possible in our industry, especially as functionality and features expand, evolve and overlap across industries. Third parties, including non-practicing patent holders, have from time to time claimed, and could claim in the future, that our processes, technologies or websites infringe patents they now hold or might obtain or be issued in the future. Employees As of December 31, 2015 , we had 4,761 employees worldwide, including 3,243 in our Customer Care team, 811 in technology and development, 132 in marketing and advertising and 575 in general and administrative. Excluded from our employee figures are more than 600 Customer Care specialists located in India and Belfast, Ireland who are directly employed by third-party partners, but who are devoted to GoDaddy on a full time basis. Substantially all of our employees are based in the United States. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is party to any collective bargaining agreement in connection with his or her employment with us. 17 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties we are unaware of, or we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors affecting us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to attract and retain customers and increase sales to new and existing customers, our business and operating results would be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain customers and increase sales to new and existing customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from domains and our hosting and presence products. The rate at which new and existing customers purchase and renew subscriptions to our products depends on a number of factors, including those outside of our control. Although our total customers and revenue have grown rapidly in recent periods, we cannot be assured that we will achieve similar growth rates in future periods. In future periods, our total customers and revenue could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. Our sales could fluctuate or decline as a result of lower demand for domain names, websites and related products, declines in our customers level of satisfaction with our products and our Customer Care, the timeliness and success of product enhancements and introductions by us and those of our competitors, the pricing offered by us and our competitors, the frequency and severity of any system outages, breaches and technological change. Our revenue has grown historically due in large part to sustained customer growth rates and strong renewal sales of subscriptions to our domain name registration and hosting and presence products. Our future success depends in part on maintaining strong renewal sales. Our costs associated with renewal sales are substantially lower than costs associated with generating revenue from new customers and costs associated with generating sales of additional products to existing customers. Therefore, a reduction in renewals, even if offset by an increase in other revenue, would reduce our operating margins in the near term. Any failure by us to continue to attract new customers or maintain strong renewal sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and operating results. In addition, we also offer business application products such as personalized email accounts and recently expanded our product offerings to include a wider array of these products. If we are unable to increase sales of these additional products to new and existing customers, our growth prospects may be harmed. If we do not successfully develop and market products that anticipate or respond promptly to the needs of our customers, our business and operating results may suffer. The markets in which we compete are characterized by constant change and innovation, and we expect them to continue to evolve rapidly. Our historical success has been based on our ability to identify and anticipate customer needs and design products providing small businesses and ventures with the tools they need to create, manage and augment their digital identity. To the extent we are not able to continue to identify challenges faced by small businesses and ventures and provide products responding in a timely and effective manner to their evolving needs, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain. If we fail to accurately predict customers changing needs or emerging technological trends, or if we fail to achieve the benefits expected from our investments in technology (including investments in our internal development efforts, acquisitions or partner programs), our business could be harmed. We must continue to commit significant resources to develop our technology in order to maintain our competitive position, and these commitments will be made without knowing whether such investments will result in products the market will accept. Our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain meaningful market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing new products or product enhancements, or those of companies we may acquire, to the market; our failure to accurately predict market demand or customer preferences; defects, errors or failures in product design or performance; negative publicity about product performance or effectiveness; 18 Table of Contents introduction of competing products (or the anticipation thereof) by other market participants; poor business conditions for our customers or poor general macroeconomic conditions; the perceived value of our products or product enhancements relative to their cost; and changing regulatory requirements adversely affecting the products we offer. There is no assurance we will successfully identify new opportunities, develop and bring new products to market on a timely basis, or products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, or if our new products do not result in increased sales or subscriptions, our competitive position will be impaired, our anticipated revenue growth may not be achieved and the negative impact on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the upfront technology and development, marketing and advertising and other expenses we may incur in connection with the new product or enhancement. Our brand is integral to our success. If we fail to effectively protect or promote our brand, our business and competitive position may be harmed. Effectively protecting and maintaining awareness of our brand is important to our success, particularly as we seek to attract new customers globally. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, substantial resources to increase our brand awareness, both generally and in specific geographies and to specific customer groups, such as web professionals (Web Pros). There can be no assurance that our brand development strategies will enhance the recognition of our brand or lead to increased sales. Furthermore, our international branding efforts may prove unsuccessful due to language barriers and cultural differences. If our efforts to effectively protect and promote our brand are not successful, our operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, even if our brand recognition and loyalty increases, our revenue may not increase at a level commensurate with our marketing spend. Our brand campaigns have historically included high-visibility events, such as the Super Bowl, and have involved celebrity endorsements or provocative themes. Some of our past advertisements have been controversial. Since 2013 , we began re-orienting our brand position to focus more specifically on how we help individuals start, grow and run their own ventures. There can be no assurance we will succeed in repositioning our brand, or that by doing so we will grow our total customers, increase our revenue or maintain our current high level of brand recognition. If we fail in these branding efforts, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. A security breach or network attack could delay or interrupt service to our customers, harm our reputation or subject us to significant liability. Our operations depend on our ability to protect our network and systems against interruption or damage from unauthorized entry, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other security threats beyond our control. We regularly experience distributed denial of service (DDOS) attacks by hackers aimed at disrupting service to our customers and attempts to place illegal or abusive content on our or our customers websites, and we may be subject to DDOS attacks or content abuse in the future. In addition, from time to time, activities of our customers or other parties may cause us to suspend or terminate customer accounts. We have suspended and terminated, and will in the future suspend or terminate, a customers use of our products when their activities on their site breach our terms of service (for example, phishing or resource misuse), interfere with or harm other customers websites sharing the same resources or otherwise violate applicable law. We may also suspend or terminate a customers website if it is repeatedly targeted by DDOS or other attacks disrupting other customers websites or servers or otherwise impacts our infrastructure. We cannot guarantee our backup systems, regular data backups, security protocols, network protection mechanisms and other procedures currently in place, or that may be in place in the future, will be adequate to prevent or remedy network and service interruption, system failure, damage to one or more of our systems or data loss. Also, our products are cloud-based, and the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers has been increasing as our business has grown. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, worms, other malicious software programs, illegal or abusive content or similar disruptive problems caused by our customers, employees, consultants or other Internet users who attempt to invade or disrupt public and private data networks. Any actual or perceived breach of our security could damage our reputation and brand, expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, subject us to regulatory or other government inquiries or investigations, require us to expend significant capital and other 19 Table of Contents resources to alleviate problems caused by the breach, and deter customers from using our products, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. If the security of the confidential information or personally identifiable information we maintain, including that of our customers and the visitors to our customers websites stored in our systems, is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be harmed and we may be exposed to liability. Our business involves the storage and transmission of confidential information, including personally identifiable information. In addition, as nearly all of our products are cloud-based, the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers (including personally identifiable information and other potentially sensitive information) has been increasing. We take measures intended to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the personal information and other sensitive information, including payment card information, we collect, store or transmit, but cannot guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts. If third parties succeed in penetrating our security measures or those of our vendors and partners, or in otherwise accessing or obtaining without authorization the payment card information or other sensitive or confidential information we or our vendors and partners maintain, we could be subject to liability, loss of business, litigation, government investigations or other losses. Hackers or individuals who attempt to breach our security measures or those of our vendors and partners could, if successful, cause the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, or loss of personally identifiable information or other confidential information, including payment card information, suspend our web-hosting operations or cause malfunctions or interruptions in our networks. If we or our partners experience any breaches of our security measures or sabotage, or otherwise suffer unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, personally identifiable information or other confidential information, including payment card information, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or address these problems. We may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or other similar actors in a timely manner, or at all. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are launched against a target, we and our vendors and partners may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Advances in computer capabilities, discoveries of new weaknesses and other developments with software generally used by the Internet community, such as the Heartbleed vulnerability, which is a vulnerability in Open Secure Sockets Layer (Open SSL) library or the Shellshock vulnerability in the Linux Bash shell, also increase the risk we, or our customers using our servers, will suffer a security breach. We and our partners also may suffer security breaches or unauthorized access to personally identifiable information and other confidential information, including payment card information, due to employee error, rogue employee activity, unauthorized access by third parties acting with malicious intent or who commit an inadvertent mistake or social engineering. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and our reputation could be harmed and we could lose current and potential customers. Security breaches or other unauthorized access to personally identifiable information and other confidential information, including payment card information, could result in claims against us for unauthorized purchases with payment card information, identity theft or other similar fraud claims as well as for other misuses of personally identifiable information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Moreover, these claims could cause us to incur penalties from payment card associations (including those resulting from our failure to adhere to industry data security standards), termination by payment card associations of our ability to accept credit or debit card payments, litigation and adverse publicity, and regulatory or other government inquiries or investigations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of cloud-based products we offer and operate in more countries. We are exposed to the risk of system failures and capacity constraints. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, system failures and outages disrupting the operation of our websites or our products such as web-hosting and email, or the availability of our Customer Care operations. For example, certain of our customers experienced a service outage in September 2012, which led to our granting of $10.4 million of service disruption credits to certain customers. Our revenue depends in large part on the volume of traffic to our websites, the number of customers whose websites we host on our servers and the availability of our Customer Care operations. Accordingly, the performance, 20 Table of Contents reliability and availability of our websites and servers for our corporate operations and infrastructure, as well as in the delivery of products to customers, are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers. We are continually working to expand and enhance our website features, technology and network infrastructure and other technologies to accommodate substantial increases in the volume of traffic on our godaddy.com and affiliated websites, the number of customer websites we host and our overall total customers. We may be unsuccessful in these efforts, or we may be unable to project accurately the rate or timing of these increases. In the future, we may be required to allocate resources, including spending substantial amounts, to build, purchase or lease data centers and equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure in order to handle increased customer traffic, as well as increased traffic to customer websites we host. We cannot predict whether we will be able to add network capacity from third-party suppliers or otherwise as we require it. In addition, our network or our suppliers networks might be unable to achieve or maintain data transmission capacity high enough to process orders or download data effectively in a timely manner. Our failure, or our suppliers failure, to achieve or maintain high data transmission capacity could significantly reduce consumer demand for our products. Such reduced demand and resulting loss of traffic, cost increases, or failure to accommodate new technologies could harm our business, revenue and financial condition. Our systems, including those of our data centers and Customer Care operations, are also vulnerable to damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, physical and electronic break-ins and similar events. The property and business interruption insurance coverage we carry may not be adequate to compensate us fully for losses that may occur. Evolving technologies and resulting changes in customer behavior or customer practices may impact the value of and demand for domain names. Historically, Internet users would typically navigate to a website by directly typing its domain name into a web browser or navigation bar. The domain name serves as a branded, unique identifier not unlike a phone number or email address. People now use multiple methods in addition to direct navigation to access websites. For example, people increasingly use search engines to find and access websites as an alternative to typing a website address directly into a web browser navigation bar. People are also using social networking and microblogging sites more frequently to find and access websites. Further, as people continue to access the Internet more frequently through applications on mobile devices, domain names become less prominent and their value may decline. These evolving technologies and changes in customer behavior may have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. We rely on our marketing efforts and channels to promote our brand and acquire new customers. These efforts may require significant expense and may not be successful or cost-effective. We use a variety of marketing channels to promote our brand, including online keyword search, sponsorships and celebrity endorsements, television, radio and print advertising, email and social media marketing. If we lose access to one or more of these channels, such as online keyword search, because the costs of advertising become prohibitively expensive or for other reasons, we may become unable to promote our brand effectively, which could limit our ability to grow our business. Further, if our marketing activities fail to generate traffic to our website, attract customers and lead to new and renewal sales of our subscriptions at the levels we anticipate, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance our marketing efforts will succeed or be cost-efficient, and if our customer acquisition costs increase, our business, operating results and financial performance could be adversely affected. Our ability to increase sales of our products is highly dependent on the quality of our Customer Care. Our failure to provide high-quality Customer Care would have an adverse effect on our business, brand and operating results. Our Customer Care team has historically contributed significantly to our total bookings. In 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 we generated approximately 24% , 23 % and 24% of our total bookings, respectively, from sales originating through our Customer Care team. The majority of our current offerings are designed for customers who often self-identify as having limited to no technology skills. Our customers depend on our Customer Care to assist them as they create, manage and grow their digital identities. After launching their sites and leveraging our product offerings, customers depend on our Customer Care team to quickly resolve any issues relating to those offerings. Further, as we continue to broaden our portfolio of solutions, increase the size of our customer base and increase the size of our solution deployments within our customers IT infrastructure, we must continue to adapt our 21 Table of Contents customer support organization to ensure our customers continue to receive the high level of customer service which they have come to expect. Notwithstanding our commitment to Customer Care, our customers will occasionally encounter interruptions in service and other technical challenges and it is therefore critical we are there to provide ongoing, high-quality support to help ensure high renewal rates and cross-selling of our products. Additionally, we focus on Web Pros and are continue to expand into non-U.S. markets. We must continue to refine our efforts in Customer Care so we can adequately serve these customer groups as we expand. If we do not provide effective ongoing Customer Care, our ability to sell our products to new and existing customers could be harmed, our subscription renewal rates may decline and our reputation may suffer, any of which could adversely affect our business, reputation and operating results. We face significant competition for our products in the domain name registration and web-hosting markets and other markets in which we compete, which we expect will continue to intensify, and we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position or market share. We provide cloud-based solutions enabling individuals, businesses and organizations to establish an online presence, connect with customers and manage their ventures. The market for providing these solutions is highly fragmented with some vendors providing part of the solution and highly competitive with many existing competitors. These solutions are also rapidly evolving, creating opportunity for new competitors to enter the market addressing specific solutions or segments of the market. In some instances, we have commercial partnerships with companies with whom we also compete. Given our broad product portfolio, we compete with niche point-solution products and broader solution providers. Our competitors include providers of traditional domain registration services and web-hosting solutions, website creation and management solutions, e-commerce enablement providers, cloud computing service and online security providers, alternative web presence and marketing solutions providers and providers of productivity tools such as business-class email. We expect competition to increase in the future from competitors in the domain and hosting and presence markets, such as Endurance, United Internet, Web.com and Rightside, as well as competition from companies such as Amazon, Google and Microsoft, all of which are providers of web-hosting and other cloud-based services and have recently entered the domain name registration business as upstream registries, and eBay and Facebook, both of which offer robust Internet marketing platforms. Google recently launched its new Google Domains service to sell domain name registration services to third-parties. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, more brand recognition and consumer awareness, more diversified product offerings, greater international scope and larger customer bases than we do, and we may therefore not be able to effectively compete with them. If these competitors and potential competitors decide to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products in the markets in which we compete, or if the products offered by these companies are more attractive to or better meet the evolving needs of our customers, our market share, growth prospects and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, in an attempt to gain market share, competitors may offer aggressive price discounts or alternative pricing models on the products they offer, such as so-called "freemium" pricing in which a basic offering is provided for free with advanced features provided for a fee, or increase commissions paid to their referral sources. As a result, increased competition could result in lower sales, price reductions, reduced margins and the loss of market share. Furthermore, conditions in our market could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements, partnering by our competitors or continuing market consolidation. Innovative new start-up companies and large competitors making significant investments in technology and development may invent similar or superior products and technologies competing with our products and technology. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their ability to compete. The continued entry of competitors into the domain name registration and web-hosting markets, and the rapid growth of some competitors that have already entered each market, may make it difficult for us to maintain our market position. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to provide a better product than our competitors at a competitive price and supported by superior Customer Care. To remain competitive, we may be required to make substantial additional investments in research, development, marketing and sales in order to respond to competition, and there can be no assurance that these investments will achieve any returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. 22 Table of Contents The future growth of our business depends in significant part on increasing our international bookings. Our recent and continuing international expansion efforts subject us to additional risks. Bookings outside of the United States represented 26% , 25% and 24% of our totals for 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. In 2012, we began the process of localizing our products in numerous markets, languages and currencies, expanding our systems to accept payments in forms common outside of the United States, focusing our marketing efforts in numerous non-U.S. geographies, tailoring our Customer Care offerings to serve these markets, expanding our infrastructure in various non-U.S. locations and establishing Customer Care operations in overseas locations. We intend to continue our international expansion efforts. As a result, we must continue to hire and train experienced personnel to staff and manage our international expansion. Our international expansion efforts may be slow or unsuccessful to the extent we experience difficulties in recruiting, training, managing and retaining qualified personnel with international experience, language skills and cultural competencies in the geographic markets we target. Furthermore, as we continue to expand internationally, it may prove difficult to maintain our corporate culture, which we believe has been critical to our success. In addition, we have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions. Conducting and expanding international operations subjects us to new risks we have not generally faced in the United States, including the following: management, communication and integration problems resulting from language barriers, cultural differences and geographic dispersion of our customers and personnel; the success of our efforts to localize and adapt our products for specific countries, including language translation of, and associated Customer Care support for, our products; compliance with foreign laws, including laws regarding online disclaimers, advertising, liability of online service providers for activities of customers especially with respect to hosted content and more stringent laws in foreign jurisdictions relating to consumer privacy and protection of data collected from individuals and other third parties; accreditation and other regulatory requirements to do business and to provide domain name registration, web-hosting and other products in foreign jurisdictions; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, including our universal terms of service and other agreements; increased expenses incurred in establishing and maintaining office space and equipment for our international operations; greater costs and expenses associated with international marketing and operations; greater risk of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs and tax laws and treaties; different or lesser degrees of protection for our or our customers intellectual property and free speech rights in certain countries; increased exposure to foreign currency risks; increased risk of a failure of employees to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including export and antitrust regulations, anti-bribery regulations and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices; heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies; the potential for political, social or economic unrest, terrorism, hostilities or war; and multiple and possibly overlapping tax regimes. In addition, the expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and financial resources. In particular, we have invested, and intend to continue to invest, in product marketing, infrastructure and personnel to support our international expansion efforts. These increased marketing costs may increase our cost of acquiring international customers, which may delay our ability to achieve profitability or reduce our profitability in the future. We may also face pressure to lower our prices in order to compete in emerging markets, which could adversely affect revenue derived from our international operations. These and other factors associated with our international operations could impair our growth prospects and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Mobile devices are increasingly being used to access the Internet, and our cloud-based and mobile support products may not operate or be as effective when accessed through these devices, which could harm our business. We offer our products across a variety of operating systems and through the Internet. Historically, we designed our web-based products for use on a desktop or laptop computer; however, mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets, are increasingly being used as the primary means for accessing the Internet and conducting e-commerce. We are dependent on the interoperability of our products with third-party mobile devices and mobile operating systems, as well as web browsers we do not control. Any changes in such devices, systems or web browsers degrading the functionality of our products or give preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect usage of our products. In the event our customers have difficulty accessing and using our products on mobile devices, our customer growth, business and operating results could be adversely affected. We have made significant investments in recent periods to support our growth strategy. These investments may not succeed. If we do not effectively manage future growth, our operating results will be adversely affected. We continue to increase the breadth and scope of our product offerings and operations. To support future growth, we must continue to improve our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and ability to effectively manage headcount, capital and processes. We must also continue to increase the productivity of our existing employees and hire, train and manage new employees while maintaining our unique corporate culture. If we fail to manage our growth or change in a manner failing to preserve the key aspects of our corporate culture, the quality of our platform, products and Customer Care may suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to retain and attract customers and employees. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses relating to our investments in international operations and infrastructure, such as the expansion of our offerings and marketing presence in India, Europe, Latin America and Asia; our targeted marketing spending to attract new customer groups, such as Web Pros and customers in non-U.S. markets; and investments in software systems and additional data center resources to keep pace with the growth of our cloud infrastructure and cloud-based product offerings. We have made significant investments in product development, corporate infrastructure and technology and development, and intend to continue investing in the development of our products and infrastructure and our marketing and Customer Care teams. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower or may develop more slowly than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth over the last several years, which has the potential to strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. The scalability and flexibility of our infrastructure depends on the functionality and bandwidth of our data centers, peering sites and servers. The significant growth in our total customers and the increase in the number of transactions we process have increased the amount of our stored customer data. Any loss of data or disruption in our ability to provide our product offerings due to disruptions in our infrastructure or services could result in harm to our brand or reputation. Moreover, as our customer base continues to grow and uses our platform for more complicated tasks, we will need to devote additional resources to improve our infrastructure and continue to enhance its scalability and security. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our results of operations and business. In January 2016, we selected a new enterprise resource planning system and expect to implement this new system by the end of 2017 . Until we implement a new system, we may experience difficulties in managing our existing systems and processes, which could disrupt our operations and the management of our finances. Our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast and report our results. 24 Table of Contents We may acquire other businesses or talent, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past made, and may in the future make, acquisitions or investments in companies, talent, products and technologies we believe will complement our business and address the needs of our customers. With respect to our recent acquisitions, we cannot ensure we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired products, talent and technology or benefit from increased subscriptions and revenue. For example, we may be unsuccessful in capturing the Web Pro market or in helping our customers attract new customers to their businesses from sites like Google, Yahoo!, Facebook and Yelp. In the future, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may be unsuccessful in achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and may fail to integrate the acquired business and operations effectively. In addition, any future acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by our customers, investors and industry analysts. We may have to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or the value of our Class A common stock. Equity issuances in connection with potential future acquisitions may also result in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, our future operating results may be impacted by performance earn-outs or contingent bonuses. Furthermore, acquisitions may involve contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional equity-based compensation expense, adjustments for fair value of deferred revenue, the recording and subsequent amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets and, if unsuccessful, impairment charges resulting from the write-off of goodwill or other intangible assets associated with the acquisition, any of which could negatively impact our future results of operations. In addition, if we are unsuccessful at integrating such acquisitions, or the operations or technologies associated with such acquisitions, into our company, the revenue and operating results of the combined company could be adversely affected. We may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, including issues related to intellectual property, solution quality or architecture, regulatory compliance practices and customer or sales channel issues. Any integration process may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the companies, solutions, technologies, accounting systems, personnel or operations we acquire, particularly if the key personnel are geographically dispersed or choose not to work for us. We may also experience difficulty in effectively integrating or preserving the different cultures and practices of the companies we acquire. Acquisitions may also disrupt our core business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our business. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology, intellectual property or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. If we fail to properly evaluate, execute or integrate acquisitions or investments, the anticipated benefits may not be realized, we may be exposed to unknown or unanticipated liabilities, and our business and prospects could be harmed. If the rate of growth of small businesses and ventures is significantly lower than our estimates or if demand for our products does not meet expectations, our ability to generate revenue and meet our financial targets could be adversely affected. Although we expect continued demand from small businesses and ventures for our products, it is possible the rate of growth may not meet our expectations, or the market may not grow , either of which would adversely affect our business. Our expectations for future revenue growth are based in part on assumptions reflecting our industry knowledge and experience serving small businesses and ventures, as well as our assumptions regarding demographic shifts, growth in the availability and capacity of Internet infrastructure internationally and the general economic climate. If any of these assumptions proves to be inaccurate, our revenue growth could be significantly lower than expected. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to offer an integrated and comprehensive suite of products enabling our diverse base of customers to start, grow and run their businesses. The success of our domains, hosting, presence and business application offerings is predicated on the assumption that an online presence is, and will continue to be, an important factor in our customers abilities to establish, expand and manage their businesses quickly, easily and affordably. If we are incorrect in this assumption, for example due to the introduction of a new technology or industry standard superseding the importance of an online presence or renders our existing or future products obsolete, then our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers could be adversely affected, which could harm our ability to generate revenue and meet our financial targets. 25 Table of Contents We rely on search engines to attract a meaningful portion of our customers. If search engines change their search algorithms or policies regarding advertising, increase their pricing or suffer problems, our ability to attract new customers may be impaired. Many of our customers locate our website and products through Internet search engines such as Google, Yahoo! and Bing. The prominence of our website in response to search inquiries is a critical factor in attracting potential customers to our websites. If we are listed less prominently or fail to appear in search results for any reason, visits to our websites by customers and potential customers could decline significantly, and we may not be able to replace this traffic. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search results. If search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, our websites may appear less prominently or not at all in search results, which could result in reduced traffic to our websites. Additionally, if the costs of search engine marketing services, such as Google AdWords, increase, we may incur additional marketing expenses or be required to allocate a larger portion of our marketing spend to this channel and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, competitors may in the future bid on our brand names and other search terms we use to drive traffic to our websites. Such actions could increase our advertising costs and result in decreased traffic to our websites. In addition, search engines or social networking sites may change their advertising policies from time to time. If any change to these policies delays or prevents us from advertising through these channels, it could result in reduced traffic to our website and sales of our subscriptions. If we are unable to increase sales of our products to Web Pros, our business, growth prospects and operating results will be adversely affected. Historically, our business has been focused on serving individuals who are thinking about starting a business to small businesses and ventures that are up and running but need help growing and expanding their digital capabilities. As a result, our products were less suited to the needs of more technically skilled individuals or web developers and other Web Pros. Furthermore, we did not target Web Pros with our marketing activities or provide Customer Care resources tailored to this customer group. We continue to focus on Web Pros in order to increase our total customers and grow our revenue. In October 2013 , we acquired Media Temple, a premium provider of web-hosting and other premium products specifically geared towards Web Pros. We are also working to tailor our marketing efforts to, and build dedicated Customer Care resources for, Web Pros. If we are unable to develop products and provide Customer Care addressing the needs of Web Pros, successfully target them with our marketing efforts or successfully leverage the Media Temple brand to capture a greater portion of the Web Pros market, our business, growth prospects and operating results could be adversely affected. We maintain a network of different types of partners, some of which create integrations with our products. For example, we partnered with Microsoft Corporation to offer Office 365 email and other productivity tools to our customers and SiteLock, LLC (SiteLock) to offer website security products to our customers, and we have worked to make certain of our products interoperable with services such as Yelp. We have invested and will continue to invest in partner programs to provide new product offerings to our customers and help us attract additional customers. However, our relationships with our partners may not be as successful in generating new customers as we anticipate, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our total customers. Further, these programs could require substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. We also rely on some of our partners to create integrations with third-party applications and platforms used by our customers, such as Office 365 and SiteLock. If our partners fail to create such integrations, or if they change the features of their applications or alter the terms governing use of their applications in an adverse manner, demand for our products could decrease, which would harm our business and operating results. If we are unable to maintain our contractual relationships with existing partners or establish new contractual relationships with potential partners, we may not be able to offer the products and related functionality our customers expect, and we may experience delays and increased costs in adding customers and may lose customers, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Any ineffectiveness of our partner programs could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Our quarterly and annual operating results may be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below investor or analyst expectations. Our quarterly and annual operating results and key metrics have varied from period to period in the past, and we expect they may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; the timing and success of introductions of new products; changes in the growth rate of small businesses and ventures; changes in renewal rates for our subscriptions and our ability to sell additional products to existing customers; refunds to our customers could be higher than expected; the timing of revenue recognition relative to the recording of the related expense; any negative publicity or other actions which harm our brand; the timing of our marketing expenditures; the mix of products sold; our ability to maintain a high level of personalized Customer Care and resulting customer satisfaction; competition in the market for our products; our ability to expand internationally; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards; systems, data center and Internet failures, breaches and service interruptions; changes in U.S. or foreign regulations that could impact one or more of our product offerings or changes to regulatory bodies, such as ICANN, as well as increased regulation by governments or multi-governmental organizations, such as the International Telecommunications Union, a specialized agency of the United Nations or the European Union, that could affect our business and our industry; a delay in the authorization of new top-level domains (TLDs) by ICANN or our ability to successfully on-board new TLDs which would impact the breadth of our customer offerings; shortcomings in, or misinterpretations of, our metrics and data which cause us to fail to anticipate or identify market trends; terminations of, disputes with, or material changes to our relationships with third-party partners, including referral sources, product partners and payment processors; reductions in the selling prices for our products; costs and integration issues associated with any acquisitions we may make; changes in legislation affecting our collection of indirect taxes both in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions; threatened or actual litigation; and loss of key employees. Any one of the factors above, or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above, may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results, including fluctuations in our key financial and operating metrics. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our revenue, bookings or operating results expectations or those of securities analysts or investors for any period. In addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue and bookings trends. Accordingly, in the event of revenue or bookings shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on operating results in the short term. If we fail to meet or exceed such 27 Table of Contents expectations for these or any other reasons, our business and stock price could be materially and adversely affected and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. We have a history of operating losses and may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. We had net losses on a GAAP basis of $120.4 million , $143.3 million and $199.9 million , in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. While we have experienced revenue growth over these same periods, we may not be able to sustain or increase our growth or achieve profitability in the future or on a consistent basis. We have incurred substantial expenses and expended significant resources upfront to market, promote and sell our products. We also expect to continue to invest for future growth. In addition, as a public company, we expect to incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses we did not incur as a private company. As a result of our increased expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenue to achieve future profitability. Achieving profitability will require us to increase revenues, manage our cost structure and avoid significant liabilities. Revenue growth may slow or decline, or we may incur significant losses in the future for a number of possible reasons, including general macroeconomic conditions, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of the markets in which we operate, or if we fail for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If these losses exceed our expectations or our revenue growth expectations are not met in future periods, our financial performance will be harmed, and our stock price could be volatile or decline. We may need additional equity, debt or other financing in the future, which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms, or at all, and any additional financing may result in restrictions on our operations or substantial dilution to our stockholders. We may need to raise funds in the future, for example, to develop new technologies, expand our business, respond to competitive pressures and make acquisitions. We may try to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships or other arrangements. Although our credit agreement limits our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and may be amended with the consent of our lenders. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may incur substantial additional debt. Our ability to obtain debt or equity funding will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, interest rates, our operating performance, our credit rating and investor interest. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies, foregoing acquisitions or reducing our product development efforts. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or equity-linked securities, then existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these new securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our Class A common stock. In addition, any such issuance could subject us to restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Further, to the extent we incur additional indebtedness or such other obligations, the risks associated with our substantial leverage described elsewhere in this 10-K, including our possible inability to service our debt, would increase. Because we are generally required to recognize revenue for our products over the term of the applicable agreement, changes in our sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. As described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, we generally recognize revenue from our customers ratably over the respective terms of their subscriptions in accordance with GAAP. Our subscription terms are typically one year, but can range from monthly terms to multi-annual terms of up to 10 years depending on the product. Accordingly, increases in sales during a particular period do not translate into immediate, proportional increases in revenue during such period, and a substantial portion of the revenue we recognize during a quarter is derived from deferred revenue from customer subscriptions we entered into during previous quarters. As a result, our margins may suffer despite substantial sales activity during a particular period, since GAAP does not permit us to recognize all of the revenue from our sales immediately. Conversely, the existence of substantial deferred revenue may prevent deteriorating sales activity from becoming immediately observable in our consolidated statement of operations. 28 Table of Contents In addition, we may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected bookings shortfall, and any significant shortfall in bookings relative to planned expenditures could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our failure to properly register or maintain our customers domain names could subject us to additional expenses, claims of loss or negative publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business. System and process failures related to our domain name registration product may result in inaccurate and incomplete information in our domain name database. Despite testing, system and process failures may remain undetected or unknown, which could result in compromised customer data, loss of or delay in revenues, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation or increased product costs, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, the requirements for securing and renewing domain names vary from registry to registry and are subject to change. We cannot guarantee we will be able to readily adopt and comply with the various registry requirements. Our failure or inability to properly register or maintain our customers domain names, even if we are not at fault, might result in significant expenses and subject us to claims of loss or to negative publicity, which could harm our business, brand and operating results. We rely heavily on the reliability, security and performance of our internally developed systems and operations. Any difficulties in maintaining these systems may result in damage to our brand, service interruptions, decreased customer service or increased expenditures. The reliability and continuous availability of the software, hardware and workflow processes underlying our internal systems, networks and infrastructure and the ability to deliver our products are critical to our business, and any interruptions resulting in our inability to timely deliver our products or Customer Care, or materially impacting the efficiency or cost with which we provide our products and Customer Care, would harm our brand, profitability and ability to conduct business. In addition, many of the software and other systems we currently use will need to be enhanced over time or replaced with equivalent commercial products or services, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Enhancing or replacing our systems, networks or infrastructure could entail considerable effort and expense. If we fail to develop and execute reliable policies, procedures and tools to operate our systems, networks or infrastructure, we could face a substantial decrease in workflow efficiency and increased costs, as well as a decline in our revenue. We rely on a limited number of data centers to deliver most of our products. If we are unable to renew our data center agreements on favorable terms, or at all, our operating margins and profitability could be adversely affected and our business could be harmed. We own one of our data centers and lease our remaining data center capacity from wholesale providers. We occupy our leased data center capacity pursuant to co-location service agreements with third-party data center facilities, which have built and maintain the co-located data centers for us and other parties. We currently serve all our customers from our GoDaddy-owned, Arizona-based data center as well as six domestic and two international co-located data center facilities located in Arizona, California, Virginia, the Netherlands and Singapore. Although we own the servers in these co-located data centers and engineer and architect the systems upon which our platforms run, we do not control the operation of these facilities, and we depend on the operators of these facilities to ensure their proper security and maintenance. Despite precautions taken at our data centers, these facilities may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from break-ins, computer viruses, DDOS or other cyber-attacks, acts of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, power loss, telecommunications failures, fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes and similar events. The occurrence of any of these events or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in loss of data (including personal or payment card information), lengthy interruptions in the availability of our services and harm to our reputation and brand. While we have disaster recovery arrangements in place, they have only been tested in very limited circumstances and not during any large-scale or prolonged disasters or similar events. The terms of our existing co-located data center agreements vary in length and expire on various dates through 2026 . Only some of our agreements with our co-located data centers provide us with options to renew under negotiated terms. We also have agreements with other critical infrastructure vendors who provide all of our facilities, including our data centers, with bandwidth, fiber optics and electrical power. None of these infrastructure vendors are under any obligation to continue to provide these services after the expiration of their respective agreements with us, nor are they obligated to renew the terms of those agreements. 29 Table of Contents Our existing co-located data center agreements may not provide us with adequate time to transfer operations to a new facility in the event of early termination. If we were required to move our equipment to a new facility without adequate time to plan and prepare for such migration, we would face significant challenges due to the technical complexity, risk and high costs of the relocation. Any such migration could result in significant costs for us and may result in data loss and significant downtime for a significant number of our customers which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose current and potential customers and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Undetected or unknown defects in our products could harm our business and future operating results. The products we offer or develop, including our proprietary technology and technology provided by third parties, could contain undetected defects or errors. The performance of our products could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as, more broadly, on Internet users and consumers and third-party applications and services utilizing our solutions. These adverse effects, defects and errors, and other performance problems relating to our products could result in legal claims against us that harm our business and damage our reputation. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in compromised customer data, loss of or delay in revenues, an increase in our annual refund rate, which has ranged from 6.9% to 7.2% of total bookings from 2013 to 2015 , loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation or brand and increased costs. In addition, while our terms of service specifically disclaim certain warranties, and contain limitations on our liability, courts may still hold us liable for such claims if asserted against us. Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage our reputation and deter existing and new customers from using our products. From time to time, concerns have been expressed about whether our products or processes compromise the privacy of customers and others. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personally identifiable information, including payment card information, or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, as nearly all of our products are cloud-based, the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers (including personally identifiable information) has been increasing. Any systems failure or compromise of our security resulting in the release of our users or customers data could seriously limit the adoption of our product offerings, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of cloud-based products we offer and operate in more countries. We are subject to privacy and data protection laws and regulations as well as contractual privacy and data protection obligations. Our failure to comply with these or any future laws, regulations or obligations could subject us to sanctions and damages and could harm our reputation and business. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including regulation by various federal government agencies, including the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and state and local agencies. We collect personally identifiable information, including payment card information, and other data from our current and prospective customers and others. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on, or requirements regarding, the collection, distribution, use, security and storage of personally identifiable information of individuals, including payment card information, and the FTC and many state attorneys general are applying federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards on the online collection, use and dissemination of data. Self-regulatory obligations, other industry standards, policies, and other legal obligations may apply to our collection, distribution, use, security or storage of personally identifiable information or other data relating to individuals, including payment card information. These obligations may be interpreted and applied in an inconsistent manner from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with one another, other regulatory requirements or our internal practices. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with U.S., E.U. or other foreign privacy or security laws, policies, industry standards or legal obligations or any security incident resulting in the unauthorized access to, or acquisition, release or transfer of, personally identifiable information or other customer data, including payment card information, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties or adverse publicity and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. We expect there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions, and we cannot yet determine 30 Table of Contents the impact such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our business. Future laws, regulations, standards and other obligations could impair our ability to collect or use information we utilize to provide targeted advertising to our customers, thereby impairing our ability to maintain and grow our total customers and increase revenue. Future restrictions on the collection, use, sharing or disclosure of our users data or additional requirements for express or implied consent of users for the use and disclosure of such information could require us to modify our products, possibly in a material manner, and could limit our ability to develop new products and features. In addition, several foreign countries and governmental bodies including the European Union and Canada, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personally identifiable information obtained from their residents, including payment card information, which are often more restrictive than those in the United States. Laws and regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of personally identifiable information, including payment card information identifying, or which may be used to identify, an individual, such as names, email addresses and, in some jurisdictions, Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. Although we are working to comply with those laws and regulations applicable to us, these and other obligations may be modified and they may be interpreted in different ways by courts, and new laws and regulations may be enacted in the future. Within the European Union, legislators have reached a political agreement on the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new regulation that would supersede the 1995 European Union Data Protection Directive, and which, when finalized and in effect, may include more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personally identifiable information, including payment card information, impose significant penalties for non-compliance and have broader extra-territorial effect. Any such new laws, regulations, other legal obligations or industry standards, or any changed interpretation of existing laws, regulations or other standards may require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply with current or future laws, regulations, policies, legal obligations or industry standards, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations, fines or other liabilities, as well as negative publicity and a potential loss of business. Moreover, if future laws, regulations, other legal obligations or industry standards, or any changed interpretations of the foregoing limit our customers ability to use and share personally identifiable information, including payment card information, or our ability to store, process and share such personally identifiable information or other data, demand for our products could decrease, our costs could increase, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In particular, with regard to transfers of personal data, as such term is used in the 1995 EU Data Protection Directive and applicable European Union member state legislation, from our employees and European customers and users to the U.S., we historically have relied upon adherence to the U.S. Department of Commerces Safe Harbor Privacy Principles and compliance with the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework agreed to by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European Union. The U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework, which established means for legitimizing the transfer of personal data by U.S. companies from the European Economic Area (the EEA) to the U.S., recently was invalidated by a decision of the European Court of Justice (the ECJ). In light of the ECJs decision, we are reviewing our business practices and may find it necessary or desirable to make changes to our personal data handling to cause our transfer and receipt of EEA residents personal data to be legitimized under applicable European law. We may be unsuccessful in establishing legitimate means for our transfer and receipt of personal data from the EEA or otherwise responding to the ECJs decision, and we may experience reluctance or refusal by current or prospective European customers to use our products. Our response to the ECJs decision may cause us to assume additional liabilities or incur additional costs, and the ECJ decision and our response could result in our business, operating results and financial condition being harmed. Additionally, we and our customers may face a risk of enforcement actions by data protection authorities in the EEA until the time, if any, personal data transfers to us and by us from the EEA are legitimized under applicable European Union data protection law. Any such enforcement actions could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, distract management and technical personnel and negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could substantially harm our business and operating results. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to protect and enforce our patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. We attempt to protect our intellectual property under patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, and through a combination of confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other methods, all of which offer only limited protection. 31 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2015 , we had 164 issued patents in the United States covering various aspects of our product offerings. Additionally, as of December 31, 2015 , we had 211 pending U.S. patent applications and intend to file additional patent applications in the future. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. We may choose not to seek patent protection for certain innovations and may choose not to pursue patent protection in certain jurisdictions, and under the laws of certain jurisdictions, patents or others intellectual property may be unavailable or limited in scope. Furthermore, it is possible that our patent applications may not issue as granted patents, that the scope of our issued patents will be insufficient or not have the coverage originally sought, that our issued patents will not provide us with any competitive advantages, and that our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. In addition, issuance of a patent does not assure that we have an absolute right to practice the patented invention, or that we have the right to exclude others from practicing the claimed invention. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or to enforce our issued patents effectively. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology and confidential proprietary information, including trade secrets and know-how. Despite our efforts to protect the proprietary and confidential nature of such technology and information, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use them. The contractual provisions in confidentiality agreements and other agreements we generally enter into with employees, consultants, partners, vendors and customers may not prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, products and intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. We may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use or infringement of our products, technologies or intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 388 registered trademarks in 54 countries, including the GoDaddy logo and mark in all international markets in which we operate or intend to operate. We have also registered, or applied to register, the trademarks associated with several of our leading brands in the United States and in certain other countries. Competitors and others may have adopted, and in the future may adopt, tag lines or service or product names similar to ours, which could impede our ability to build our brands identities and possibly lead to confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered and common law trademarks or trademarks incorporating variations of the terms or designs of one or more of our trademarks and opposition filings made when we apply to register our trademarks. From time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, distract management and technical personnel and negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. Any inability on our part to protect adequately our intellectual property may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights, or other lawsuits brought against us, could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States and abroad involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies providing web-based and cloud-based products are increasingly bringing, and becoming subject to, suits alleging infringement of proprietary rights, particularly patent rights. The possibility of intellectual property infringement claims also may increase to the extent we face increasing competition and become increasingly visible as a publicly-traded company. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights. In addition, our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may increase as a result of acquisitions we make or our use of software licensed from or hosted by third parties, as we have less visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired or licensed 32 Table of Contents technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition or license. We currently face, and expect to face in the future, claims by third parties that we infringe upon or misappropriate their intellectual property rights. Many companies are devoting significant resources to obtaining patents that could affect many aspects of our business. This may prevent us from deterring patent infringement claims, and our competitors and others may now and in the future have larger and more mature patent portfolios than we have. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure. In addition, during the course of any such litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our Class A common stock. Regardless of whether claims we are infringing patents or infringing or misappropriating other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend, and can impose a significant burden on management and employees. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and we may receive unfavorable interim or preliminary rulings in the course of litigation. There can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. We may decide to settle lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. Some of our competitors and other third parties have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. Any intellectual property litigation to which we might become a party, or for which we are required to defend or to provide indemnification, may require us to do one or more of the following: cease selling or using products incorporating or relying upon the intellectual property our products allegedly infringe; make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement payments or other costs or damages; subject us to indemnification obligations or obligations to refund fees to, and adversely affect our relationships with, our customers; divert the attention and resources of management and technical personnel; obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, to sell or use the relevant technology; or redesign the allegedly infringing products to avoid infringement, or make other technology or branding changes to our solutions, each of which could be costly, time-consuming or impossible. If we are required to make substantial payments or undertake any of the other actions noted above as a result of any intellectual property infringement claims against us, our business or operating results could be harmed. Our use of open source technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We use open source software in our business, including in our products. It is possible some such open source software is governed by licenses containing requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in certain manners. Although we monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, we cannot be certain all open source software is reviewed prior to use in our proprietary software, that programmers working for us have not incorporated open source software into our proprietary software, or that they will not do so in the future. Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or to make it available under an open source license could be harmful to our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts. As a result, there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such an event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make our proprietary code generally available in source code 33 Table of Contents form, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business depends on our customers continued and unimpeded access to the Internet and the development and maintenance of Internet infrastructure. Internet access providers may be able to block, degrade or charge for access to certain of our products, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of customers. Our products depend on the ability of our customers to access the Internet. Currently, this access is provided by companies having significant market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and government-owned service providers. The adoption of any laws or regulations adversely affecting the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including laws impacting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our products and increase our operating costs. The legislative and regulatory landscape regarding the regulation of the Internet and, in particular, Internet neutrality, in the United States are subject to uncertainty. The Federal Communications Commission passed Open Internet rules in February 2015, effective in June 2015, generally providing for Internet neutrality with respect to fixed and mobile broadband Internet service, but they have been challenged in federal court. Any changes in the legislative and regulatory landscape regarding Internet neutrality, or otherwise regarding the regulation of the Internet, could harm our business. For example, to the extent any laws, regulations or rulings permit Internet service providers to charge some users higher rates than others for the delivery of their content, Internet service providers could attempt to use such law, regulation or ruling to impose higher fees or deliver our content with less speed, reliability or otherwise on a non-neutral basis as compared to other market participants, and our business could be adversely impacted. Internationally, government regulation concerning the Internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be developing or non-existent. Within such a regulatory environment, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices impeding both our and our customers domestic and international growth, increasing our costs or adversely affecting our business. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. We believe a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity, a customer-centric focus, collaboration and loyalty. Our corporate culture is central to our devoted Customer Care team which is a key component of the value we offer our customers. As we continue to evolve our business, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our corporate culture, which could limit our ability to innovate and operate effectively. Difficulty in preserving our corporate culture will be exacerbated as we continue to expand internationally, grow our employee base and expand our solutions. Any failure to preserve our culture could also negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, continue to perform at current levels or execute on our business strategy. Our business is exposed to risks associated with credit card and other online payment chargebacks and fraud. A majority of our revenue is processed through credit cards and other online payments. If our refunds or chargebacks increase, our processors could require us to increase reserves or terminate their contracts with us, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our failure to limit fraudulent transactions conducted on our websites, such as through the use of stolen credit card numbers, could also subject us to liability. Under credit card association rules, penalties may be imposed at the discretion of the association for inadequate fraud protection. Any such potential penalties would be imposed on our credit card processor by the association. Under our contracts with our payment processors, we are required to reimburse our processors for such penalties. However, we face the risk that we may fail to maintain an adequate level of fraud protection and that one or more credit card associations or other processors may, at any time, assess penalties against us or terminate our ability to accept credit card payments or other form of online payments from customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We could also incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to pay their fees to us if we fail to follow payment card industry data security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information. Although we believe we are in compliance with payment card industry data security standards and do not believe there has been a compromise of customer information, it is possible that at times either we or any of our acquired companies may not have been in full compliance with these standards. Accordingly, we could be fined or our products could be suspended, which would cause us 34 Table of Contents to be unable to process payments using credit cards. If we are unable to accept credit card payments, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, we could be liable if there is a breach of the payment information we store. Online commerce and communications depend on the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to authenticate and secure the transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. However, we cannot ensure this technology will prevent breaches of the systems we use to protect customer payment data. Although we maintain network security insurance, we cannot be certain our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or insurance will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our partners also collect or possess information about our customers, and we may be subject to litigation or our reputation may be harmed if our partners fail to protect our customers information or if they use it in a manner inconsistent with our practices. Data breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues. Under our contracts with our processors, if there is unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, credit card information we store, we could be liable to the credit card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. Activities of customers or the content of their websites could damage our reputation and brand or harm our business and financial results. As a provider of domain name registration and hosting and presence products, we may be subject to potential liability for the activities of our customers on or in connection with their domain names or websites or for the data they store on our servers. Although our terms of service prohibit illegal use of our products by our customers and permit us to take down or suspend websites or take other appropriate actions for illegal use, customers may nonetheless engage in prohibited activities or upload or store content with us in violation of applicable law or the customers own policies, which could subject us to liability. Furthermore, our reputation and brand may be negatively impacted by the actions of customers that are deemed to be hostile, offensive or inappropriate. We do not proactively monitor or review the appropriateness of the domain names our customers register or the content of their websites, and we do not have control over customer activities. The safeguards we have in place may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our reputation and brand, especially if such hostile, offensive or inappropriate use is high profile. Several U.S. federal statutes may apply to us with respect to various activities of our customers, including: the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (the DMCA), which provides recourse for owners of copyrighted material who believe their rights under U.S. copyright law have been infringed on the Internet; the Communications Decency Act of 1996 (the CDA), which regulates content on the Internet unrelated to intellectual property; and the Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act (the ACPA), which provides recourse for trademark owners against cybersquatters. The DMCA and the CDA generally protect online service providers like us that do not own or control website content posted by customers from liability for certain activities of customers, such as the posting of defamatory or obscene content, unless the online service provider is participating in the unlawful conduct. For example, the safe harbor provisions of the DMCA shield Internet service providers and other intermediaries from direct or indirect liability for copyright infringement. However, under the DMCA, we must follow the procedures for handling copyright infringement claims set forth in the DMCA including expeditiously removing or disabling access to the allegedly infringing material upon the receipt of a proper notice from, or on behalf of, a copyright owner alleging infringement of copyrighted material located on websites we host. Under the CDA, we are generally not responsible for the customer-created content hosted on our servers and thus are generally immunized from liability for torts committed by others. Consequently, we do not monitor hosted websites or prescreen the content placed by our customers on their sites. Under the safe harbor provisions of the ACPA, domain name registrars are shielded from liability in many circumstances, including cybersquatting, although the safe harbor provisions may not apply if our activities are deemed outside the scope of registrar functions. Although these statutes and case law in the United States have generally shielded us from liability for customer activities to date, court rulings in pending or future litigation may narrow the scope of protection afforded us under these laws. Neither the DMCA nor the CDA generally apply to claims of trademark violations, and thus they may be inapplicable to many of the claims asserted against our company. Furthermore, notwithstanding the exculpatory language of these bodies of law, the activities of our customers may result in threatened or actual litigation against us. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business and operating results. 35 Table of Contents In addition, laws governing these activities are unsettled in many international jurisdictions, or may prove difficult or impossible for us to comply with in some international jurisdictions. Also, other existing bodies of law, including the criminal laws of various states, may be deemed to apply or new statutes or regulations may be adopted in the future, any of which could expose us to further liability and increase our costs of doing business. We may face liability or become involved in disputes over registration and transfer of domain names and control over websites. As a provider of web-based and cloud-based products, including as a registrar of domain names and related products, we from time to time become aware of disputes over ownership or control of customer accounts, websites or domain names. We could face potential claims of tort law liability for our failure to renew a customers domain. We could also face potential tort law liability for our role in the wrongful transfer of control or ownership of accounts, websites or domain names. The safeguards and procedures we have adopted may not be successful in insulating us against liability from such claims in the future. In addition, we face potential liability for other forms of account, website or domain name "hijacking," including misappropriation by third parties of our network of customer accounts, websites or domain names and attempts by third parties to operate accounts, websites or domain names or to extort the customer whose accounts, websites or domain names were misappropriated. Furthermore, we are exposed to potential liability as a result of our domain privacy product, wherein the identity and contact details for the domain name registrant are masked. Although our terms of service reserve our right to take certain steps when domain name disputes arise related to our privacy product, including the removal of our privacy service, the safeguards we have in place may not be sufficient to avoid liability, which could increase our costs of doing business. Occasionally one of our customers may register a domain name identical, or similar, to a third partys trademark or the name of a living person. These occurrences have in the past and may in the future lead to our involvement in disputes over such domain names. Disputes involving registration or control of domain names are often resolved through the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy (the UDRP), ICANNs administrative process for domain name dispute resolution, or less frequently through litigation under the ACPA, or under general theories of trademark infringement or dilution. The UDRP generally does not impose liability on registrars, and the ACPA provides that registrars may not be held liable for registration or maintenance of a domain name absent a showing of the registrars bad faith intent to profit. However, we may face liability if we act in bad faith or fail to comply in a timely manner with procedural requirements under these rules. In addition, domain name registration disputes and compliance with the procedures under the ACPA and URDP typically require at least limited involvement by us and, therefore, increase our cost of doing business. The volume of domain name registration disputes may increase in the future as the overall number of registered domain names increases. We are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key employees, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future performance depends on the continued services and contributions of our senior management and other key employees to execute on our business plan and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. The loss of services of senior management or other key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. In addition, some of the members of our current management team have only been working together for a short period of time, which could adversely impact our ability to achieve our goals. The loss of the services of our senior management or other key employees for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would suffer. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel or delays in hiring required personnel, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, specifically employees with technical and engineering skills and employees with language skills and cultural knowledge of the geographic markets we have recently expanded to or that we intend to expand to in the near future, will be critical to our future success. Competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense. In addition, many of our employees have outstanding options or other equity awards. Now that we are a public company, the ability to either exercise those options or sell their stock in a public market may lead to a larger than normal turnover rate. We intend to issue stock options or other equity awards as key components of our overall compensation and employee attraction and retention efforts. In addition, we are required under GAAP to recognize compensation expense in our operating results for employee equity-based compensation under our equity grant programs, which may negatively impact our operating results and may increase the pressure to limit equity-based 36 Table of Contents compensation. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. Also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) and the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE). We expect the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources. Managements attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, us to maintain effective disclosure