Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, involving substantial risks and uncertainties. The words "believe," "may," "will," "potentially," "plan," "could," "should," "predict," "ongoing," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "project," "expect," "seek," or the negative of these words, or terms or similar expressions conveying uncertainty of future events or outcomes, or that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated, or expected. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" and in our publicly available filings and press releases. These statements include, among other things, those regarding: our ability to continue to add new customers and increase sales to our existing customers; our ability to develop new solutions and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing solutions; our dependence on establishing and maintaining a strong brand; the occurrence of service interruptions and security or privacy breaches and related remediation efforts and fines; system failures or capacity constraints; the rate of growth of, and anticipated trends and challenges in, our business and in the market for our products; our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, including changes in technology and development, marketing and advertising, general and administrative and customer care expenses, and our ability to achieve and maintain future profitability; our ability to continue to efficiently acquire customers, maintain our high customer retention rates and maintain the level of our customers' lifetime spend; our ability to provide high quality customer care; the effects of increased competition in our markets and our ability to compete effectively; our ability to grow internationally; the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our business and our ability to effectively manage the exposure to such fluctuations; our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments, including our migration of the vast majority of our infrastructure to the public cloud; our ability to integrate acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions of Poynt Co. (now known as GoDaddy Payments) and Pagely, our entry into new lines of business and our ability to achieve expected results from our integrations and new lines of business; our ability to maintain our relationships with our partners; adverse consequences of our substantial level of indebtedness and our ability to repay our debt; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to maintain or improve our market share; sufficiency of cash and cash equivalents to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our ability to stay in compliance with laws and regulations currently applicable to, or which may become applicable to, our business both in the United States (U.S.) and internationally; economic and industry trends or trend analysis; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel; 3 Table of Contents NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) anticipated income tax rates, tax estimates and tax standards; interest rate changes; the future trading prices of our Class A common stock; our expectations regarding the outcome of any regulatory investigation or litigation; the amount and timing of future repurchases of our Class A common stock under any share repurchase program; the potential impact of shareholder activism on our business and operations; the length and severity of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and its impact on our business, customers and employees; as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition, growth prospects and business strategies. We operate in very competitive and rapidly-changing environments, and new risks emerge from time-to-time. It is not possible for us to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those implied in our forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances described in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Neither we, nor any other person, assume responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this report to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Unless expressly indicated or the context suggests otherwise, references to "GoDaddy," "company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to GoDaddy Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Desert Newco, LLC and its subsidiaries (Desert Newco). 4 Table of Contents Part I. Item 1. Business Overview GoDaddy is a global leader in serving a large market of everyday entrepreneurs, delivering simple, easy-to-use products, and outcome-driven, personalized guidance to small businesses, individuals, organizations, developers, designers and domain investors. Our vision is to radically shift the global economy toward independent entrepreneurial ventures. Our mission is to empower entrepreneurs everywhere, making opportunity more inclusive for all. We are passionate about our mission, and we recognize that the opportunity for entrepreneurs is changing. When GoDaddy began, the entrepreneurial journey was simpler: entrepreneurs needed our help to name, create, grow and manage their ventures online. Over time, the evolution of e-commerce, social media and consumer expectations of their online and in-person experiences has changed the entrepreneur's journey. GoDaddy is uniquely positioned to help our customers navigate this complexity. We champion everyday entrepreneurs by empowering them with sage guidance set in seamlessly intuitive experiences to create and protect their digital identity, establish and maintain a ubiquitous presence online and participate in the world of connected commerce. We do all of this while activating the exponential power of our community at a global scale to deliver profitable revenue growth. Our 21.2 million customers are passionate, everyday entrepreneurs with vibrant ideas, who are determined to make their way in the world and to transform their ideas into something meaningful. Our services are designed to meet and attract customers in all phases of their journey. Wherever their journey begins, whether with a domain, a physical store or on a social media platform, we are there to enable them to create content, build their website, establish and manage their online marketing, sell their products and services, syndicate marketplaces online and offline, connect social media and manage their businesses with branded email, productivity solutions and website security. Our customers often start with the most intimate of brand considerations, their identity, which we provide through our domain services. As their entrepreneurial needs evolve, we help our customers manage and grow their businesses and connect with their customers through our expanded service offerings and access to relevant third-party products and platforms, including website building and hosting, marketplace syndication, social media and bio site management, security, business products and email and other services. Recognizing that consumer expectations and behaviors are quickly changing, we evolved our product and service offerings to provide a high-performance back-end registry technology platform and an integrated suite of payment systems and point-of-sale hardware and software to seamlessly manage online and offline commerce. What it means to have an online presence has evolved to having a connected digital identity, ubiquitous presence and connected commerce that includes responsive websites integrated with social channels, search engines and e-commerce marketplaces connected to offline commerce marketplaces. Our customers need to integrate dynamic information everywhere they engage with their audiences, including customer touchpoints such as appointment availability, retail inventory, digital subscriptions and social media. At GoDaddy, we believe our customers should have both great technology and great customer support. Engaging with our customers in a proactive, consultative way through personalized guidance via phone and digital experiences sets them up to succeed. Through the thousands of daily conversations we have with our customers, we gather valuable feedback enabling us to continually evolve our products and solutions and respond to their changing needs. Our people and unique culture have been integral to our success. We live by the same principles that enable our customers' ideas to survive and thrive, including owning outcomes, building value, joining forces and working courageously. We take responsibility for delivering successful outcomes which we believe is a key factor in driving our customer and revenue growth. We also believe we have one of the most recognized Internet brands in the U.S., and our international awareness continues to rapidly increase as we grow. Our stable and predictable business model is driven by efficient customer acquisition, high customer retention rates and increasing lifetime spend. In each of the five years ended December 31, 2021, our customer retention rate exceeded 85%, and in 2021, our retention rate for customers who had been with us for over three years was more than 93%. Additionally, in 2021, we had approximately 1.5 million customers who each spent more than $500 a year on our product offerings. We believe the breadth and depth of our product offerings and the high-quality guidance and responsiveness from GoDaddy Guides has and continues to build strong customer relationships leading to our high customer retention rates. In 2021, we generated $3,816 million of revenue, up 15.0% from $3,317 million in 2020, and we generated $4,232 million in total bookings, up 12.1% from $3,776 million in 2020. 5 Table of Contents Our Customers and Solutions We built GoDaddy to serve our customers by providing simple, easy-to-use cloud-based products on a single technology platform wrapped with personalized guidance. Our Customers We serve several customer populations: Independents, Partners, Domain Registrars and Investors, other Registrars and Corporate Domain Portfolio owners. While these customer populations tend to utilize many of the same GoDaddy product offerings, there are meaningful differences in their journeys, what they value, their goals and how they communicate with the rest of the world and we aim to establish and provide solutions that address these differences. Our largest customer population, Independents, consists of mostly micro-businesses and noncommercial endeavors. Independents have an entrepreneurial spirit, strong work ethic and, above all, passion for their ideas, yet their specific needs vary depending on the type of their ideas and the phase of their journey. Independents range from individuals who have an initial business idea and those thinking about starting a business, to established ventures needing help attracting customers, growing their sales, managing their online presence or expanding their operations. Most Independents have fewer than five employees and most self-identify as having little to no technology or design skills. These customers need our help to create a unique and secure digital identity, especially with the more technical aspects of their online presence. Although our customers have differing degrees of resources and technical capabilities, they all share a desire to find tools to help them bring their ideas to life, enhance connections with their audience and provide a seamless experience for both existing and new customers. Our second largest customer population, Partners, are website designers and developers who build websites on behalf of businesses and noncommercial organizations. We estimate that half of all global website builds occur through a third party, such as our Partners, on a do-it-for-you basis. Our Partners are often freelancers, moonlighters or teams within website design agencies that often have website design as one of multiple streams of income. Our Partners generally have more technical acumen and look for tools that provide greater amounts of flexibility, such as our WordPress content management system (CMS). Although Partners have a need for technical depth and flexibility, they also benefit from our simplicity and guidance as tools to increase their throughput and maximize the use of their time. We help our Partners in a number of ways beyond our product suite and services, including providing tools to help them save time, make money and exceed client expectations. These client management applications make it easier for designers and developers to manage their clients' websites at any host, or on GoDaddy products such as Managed WordPress. With our products and services, Partners can easily manage their overall business with capabilities such as client billing, administrative access and shopping features, making it easier for them to buy and manage multiple products for their clients, as well as make use of enhanced technical support and discounts for reselling GoDaddy products. We support a variety of control panels and content management tools favored by Partners including cPanel, Plesk, Drupal, Joomla and more. As one of the largest global hosts of WordPress sites, many of our recent investments, including our acquisition of Pagely, a managed WordPress hosting solution, in November 2021, have focused on extending our reach into the WordPress community. Our third largest customer population is Domain Registrars and Investors. Domain registrars are organizations that have their own domain registration offerings, such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), but who use our domain registration and management platform. These commercial arrangements provide for strategic relationships with many key platforms, and enable further scale of our domain registration technology and insights. Domain investors are individuals or organizations who manage a portfolio of registered domains for the purpose of selling via secondary markets. These investors bring a unique and valuable resource to our business in the form of liquidity and the ability to help our other populations (Independents and Partners) successfully find a domain name they prefer. We also serve other Registrars and Corporate Domain Portfolio owners. We serve registrars through our registry business (GoDaddy Registry), which provides wholesale generic top level domains (gTLDs) and country-code top level domains (ccTLDs) for registrars to sell to the end customer. These top-level domains (TLDs) provide shorter and better naming alternatives to a .com domain that more closely represent the name of customers' ideas, businesses and brands. We also provide a fully managed registry platform for other registry operators. We manage the full technology and operating stack at scale for over 200 TLDs including some of the largest brands in the world. Corporate Domain Portfolio owners are organizations that maintain and manage a large portfolio of domain names, including general and international domains. These customers are looking for the most powerful, secure and intuitive technology to streamline their processes, unparalleled industry experience and expertise to navigate the complexities of managing a corporate portfolio, and a focused and dedicated team that can provide committed support with the highest levels of security, service and domain management. 6 Table of Contents Our Solutions We have designed and developed an extensive set of easy-to-use cloud-based technology products enabling our customers to establish a digital identity, connect with their customers across multiple social platforms and online marketplaces and deliver a seamless customer experience in a connected commerce world. We understand that our customers' needs vary depending on their type and the stage of their idea, which is why we offer our products both independently and bundled as suites of integrated products designed for specific uses. Crucial to our product philosophy is to provide value well in excess of the price we charge, which often puts our products in a position of strength on functionality while at an affordable cost. Our domain name registration products enable us to engage customers at the initial stage of establishing a digital identity and often are an on-ramp for our other products. We believe our hosting and presence and business applications products significantly improve our value proposition to customers, increase our revenue and margin growth opportunities, can serve as starting points for our customer relationships and improve customer retention. Recognizing our customers' need for cost-effective e-commerce solutions, we acquired Poynt (now known as GoDaddy Payments) in February 2021 and launched our connected commerce offering in September 2021. We believe our payments solutions enable our customers to quickly and easily participate in the digital economy with a seamless transition to offline marketplaces, and position us to expand into new markets and increase our revenue and margin growth opportunities. We have also made significant investments in the localization of our service offerings, as 45% of our customers are located in international markets (notably the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, India and Australia). And, while not a standalone product, our GoDaddy Guides consist of approximately 5,900 specialists worldwide who are available 24/7/365 and provide care to customers who have different levels of technical sophistication. Domains Every great idea needs a great name and GoDaddy is the leading global naming service. Staking a claim on digital identity with a domain name is an integral part of establishing a concept and presence online. When inspiration strikes, we are there to provide our customers with high-quality search, discovery and recommendation tools as well as the broadest selection of domains to help them find the right name for their idea. Securing a domain is a key component to creating a complete digital identity and our domain products often serve as the starting point in our customer relationships. We are a global market leader in domain name registration, with more than 84 million domains under management as of December 31, 2021 and, based on information reported in VeriSign's Domain Name Industry Brief, we held over 23% of the approximately 365 million domain names registered worldwide as of September 30, 2021. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 89% of our customers had purchased a domain from us. In 2021, 2020 and 2019, we generated approximately 47%, 46% and 45% of our total revenue, respectively, from sales of our domain products. In addition, GoDaddy Registry provides a high-performance back-end registry technology platform with a portfolio of TLDs including .biz, .co, .in, .nyc, and .us. Our primary domains product offerings are: Primary Registrations . Using our website or mobile application, we offer customers the ability to search for and register available domain names with the applicable registry. Our inventory for primary registrations is defined by the number TLDs we offer. As of December 31, 2021, 419 different generic TLDs, such as .com, .net and .org, and 57 different country code TLDs, such as .de, .ca, .in and .jp., were available for purchase through GoDaddy. Since 2013, hundreds of new gTLDs have been launched through ICANN's "new gTLD program" initiated in 2012 (Expansion Program), making it easier for companies and individuals to find and register new, easy-to-remember domain names tailored to their ideas, industry or interests. ccTLDs are important to our international expansion efforts as we have found international customers often prefer the ccTLD for the country or geographic market in which they operate. Our primary registration offering relies heavily on our search, discovery and recommendation tools which enable our customers to find a name matching their needs. We also sell domain registrations through relationships with third-party resellers and we provide back-end registry services supporting more than 215 TLDs. Aftermarket . We operate a large domain aftermarket platform, which processes aftermarket, or secondary, domain name sales. Our aftermarket platform is designed to enable the seamless purchase and sale of previously registered domain names through an online auction, an offer and counter offer transaction or a "buy now" transaction. We maintain a portfolio of more than 1.2 million previously registered domains, providing a diverse inventory available to our customers. Our GoDaddy Investor mobile application helps investors watch and bid on domains at auction and stay on top of their current bids from their mobile devices. We operate a cross-registrar network that automates transaction execution across registrars thereby reducing the time required to complete a transaction. 7 Table of Contents Domain Name Add-Ons . Domain name add-ons are features typically purchased concurrently with domain name registrations and have low costs associated with their delivery. In addition, where permissible, privacy features are included at no cost with every domain registered with GoDaddy. Domain names with these privacy features are registered on an "unlisted" basis to help protect personal information, deter domain-related spam, and allow our customers to confidentially secure a domain for an unannounced product, service or idea. Registry . GoDaddy Registry is a world-leading provider of domain name registry services. GoDaddy registry operates more than 200 TLDs including country-code TLDs, such as . us and .co, city TLDs such as .nyc and .sy, generic TLDs such as .Club and .Buzz, and branded TLDs such as .Chase and .Fox. Our integrated registry solutions provide policy and operational support, and domain marketing, sales and strategic planning. We also provide back-end registry services supporting more than 215 TLDs. Hosting and Presence Bringing an idea to life online requires a presence. GoDaddy Websites + Marketing, Managed WordPress hosting, GoDaddy Studio (formerly Over) and other GoDaddy offerings are a part of a customer's ubiquitous presence that enable anyone to create a simple, easy-to-use website or e-commerce enabled online store, for both desktop and mobile, with minimal technical skill. Our products, powered by a unified cloud platform, enable our customers to get found online by helping to enhance the information on their website and extending their website and its content to where they need to be, from search engine results (e.g., Google) to social media (e.g., Meta (the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp)) to vertical marketplaces (e.g., Yelp), all from one location. For more technically sophisticated web designers, developers and customers, we provide high-performance, flexible hosting and security products that can be used with a variety of open source design tools as well as Managed WordPress. We design these solutions to be easy to use, effective, reliable, flexible and at a great value. We offer a variety of hosting and presence products enabling our customers to create and manage their digital identity, or in the case of Partners, the digital identities of their end-customers. In 2021, 2020 and 2019, we derived approximately 34%, 36% and 38% of our total revenue, respectively, from sales of our hosting and presence products. Our primary hosting products are: Shared Website Hosting . The term "shared hosting" refers to the housing of multiple websites on the same server via the use of chroot environments. Shared hosting is our most popular hosting product. We operate, maintain and support shared website hosting in our owned and operated data centers and our leased co-located data centers using either Linux or Windows operating systems. We currently offer several tiers of website hosting plans to suit the needs and resources of our customers, a majority of which use industry standard cPanel or Parallels Plesk control panels. We also bundle our hosting plans with a variety of applications and products such as web analytics, Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates and WordPress. WordPress is the most used content management application on our shared hosting platform. Website Hosting on Virtual Private Servers and Virtual Dedicated Servers . Our broad range of virtual private server (VPS) and virtual dedicated server (VDS) offerings, which run on single bare metal servers, allow our customers to select the server configuration best suited for their applications, requirements and growth. Our VPS solutions provide our customers with a single virtual machine which runs multiple other virtual machines for other customers. Our VPS is designed for customers who need greater control, more advanced technical capabilities and higher performance than that offered by our shared hosting plans. Our VDS solutions offer our customers high-performance server options with isolated resources to run mission-critical applications where latency and uptime matters. Our customers can tailor their VPS or VDS plans based on a range of performance, storage, bandwidth and operating system needs. Managed Hosting . With our managed hosting products, we set up, monitor, maintain, secure and patch software and servers for our customers. We offer a variety of managed hosting plans to support our customers' needs including multiple tiers of Managed WordPress hosting on a platform optimized for WordPress. We also offer other managed environments that span across our VPS and dedicated products like Joomla, Drupal and Magento and apps like Gallery. Security . Our security product portfolio is a comprehensive suite of tools designed to help secure our customers' online presence. The portfolio includes (i) public key infrastructure (PKI) and SSL certificates to help ensure information is secure between browsers and servers through encryption; (ii) the use of a content delivery network (CDN) to improve a website's performance; (iii) a proprietary web application firewall (WAF) to help keep customers' websites safe from hackers; (iv) continuous malware scanning and site cleanups; and (v) a skilled team of security professionals to provide incident responses in the event of a disruption in service. 8 Table of Contents Our primary presence products are: Websites + Marketing . Websites + Marketing is an easy-to-use, do-it-yourself, mobile-optimized online tool enabling customers, irrespective of their technical skills, to build effective websites and e-commerce enabled online stores. We offer a variety of plans, with pricing dependent on business and marketing features. With each of these plans, customers have access to industry-targeted professional design templates, which can be further customized using our editor by adding intent-driven sections, photos, videos or text. Our design templates cover a wide range of categories with professionally written content for small businesses, organizations, families, weddings and other ideas. Our websites and tools are all designed to work seamlessly on mobile devices, with a focus on performance, to enable websites to appear in search engine rankings. Marketing . Our Websites + Marketing product line includes a range of marketing tools and services designed to help businesses acquire and engage customers and create content. These capabilities are available in an integrated offering with our website and commerce tools, or as a stand-alone for customers using other website content-management systems. The tools are designed for busy customers who may lack experience with online marketing, focusing on ease of use, mobile experience and delivering business results. For example, our mobile application, GoDaddy Studio (formerly Over), allows our customers to grow their brands by easily creating impactful visual content for almost any platform online. Search Engine Optimization helps our customers get their websites found on major search sites using a simple step-by-step wizard with targeted recommendations on which search phrases are most likely to drive traffic to a customer's site. Business listings capabilities bring business information to where customers are looking, including Meta (the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp) and Google My Business. Email marketing lets people build targeted campaigns, either from scratch or using website or commerce content. Social Media Management. GoDaddy Social provides customers with a complete "do-it-for-me" service for managing engagement on the most popular social networks. This service combines dedicated teams of branding experts photographers, writers, designers, marketers with proprietary technology to manage activity on Meta (the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp), Twitter and Yelp, among others, to help our customers acquire new customers and build stronger relationships with their existing customers. Business Applications Our customers want to spend their time on what matters most to them, selling their products or services or helping their customers do the same. We provide them with productivity tools such as domain-specific email, second-line telephony, online storage and payment solutions to help run their ventures. We offer a variety of products designed to make the business of business easier for our customers. The products we offer include those developed in-house as well as third-party applications which we distribute and support, such as Microsoft Office 365. In 2021, 2020 and 2019, we derived approximately 19%, 18% and 17% of our total revenue, respectively, from sales of our business applications products. Our primary business applications products are: Microsoft Office 365 . We offer fully-supported Microsoft Office 365 accounts that are easy to set up and use with our customers' domains. We offer Microsoft Office 365 in multiple plans ranging from email with calendar and contacts connected to a custom domain to a full suite of productivity tools, including file sharing and full desktop versions of Microsoft productivity applications, such as Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint. For customers wanting to protect their email data, we offer an email backup service, and for customers needing to comply with regulatory requirements, we offer email add-on services such as HIPAA-enabled email, encryption services (in partnership with ProofPoint), archiving services (in partnership with Barracuda) and advanced e-mail security. We help make Microsoft Office 365 installation easy, allowing customers to get up and running in minutes, including "do-it-for-me" migration services to move customers' existing email data to Office 365 accounts. Email Accounts . We offer a range of email service plans with a multi-feature web interface that connects to our customers' domains. The pricing of these plans depends on the customer's desired amount of storage and number of email addresses. All of our email accounts are ad-free and include security functionality designed to provide protection from spam, viruses and other forms of online fraud, such as phishing. Email Marketing . Our email marketing product helps customers market their businesses through permission-based email. Customers can easily create and send newsletters, targeted advertising campaigns, promotions and surveys as well as connect email campaigns with their social media networks and track the results of campaigns. 9 Table of Contents Telephony . We provide Internet-based telephone services, including virtual phone numbers and mobile applications that allow for separate business and personal communications from the same phone, single and multi-line VoIP phone systems, IP-enabled phones, virtual phone numbers, virtual receptionist services, customizable phone trees and follow-me call forwarding. These SmartLine plans can be accessed with either IP phones, traditional local or cellular telephone services. Connected Commerce Our customers want their customers to have an enjoyable and seamless shopping experience, through a connected commerce experience in store and online. Our commerce products are designed to help our customers set up an online store that is enabled for e-commerce, process all major forms of payment in store and online, manage their inventory across multiple marketplaces including their physical store, book appointments and get paid quickly for their customers' transactions. We seek to make it easy for our customers to sell in-person, on their websites, across major marketplaces and via the most popular social networks. Our primary commerce products and services are: Online Store. Our Websites + Marketing product includes online store capability, which allows our customers to transact business directly on their websites. The product is optimized for mobile shopping and secure checkout via credit card, GoDaddy Payments (including, Apple Pay and Google Pay), Square, Stripe or PayPal. Our online store allows customers to manage inventory and shipping and is integrated into our social and email marketing tools, to help customers generate more business. Smart Point-of-Sale (POS) Systems. We offer two point-of-sale devices, a countertop Smart Terminal and a mobile Card Reader and web/desktop software for POS. We also offer inventory management and invoicing capabilities to our customers through the use of third party applications that seamlessly integrate with GoDaddy's POS system, giving small businesses the ability to sell, track and manage sales and inventory in store and online. GoDaddy's POS systems seamlessly integrate with GoDaddy's Online Store to unify in-person and online sales in one organized placeour new Commerce Hub. GoDaddy Payments. As a "payment facilitator," GoDaddy Payments enables our customers to accept all major forms of payment, including Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, and contactless payments including Apple Pay and Google Pay, with no long-term contracts or monthly minimums. This service enables our customers to be paid as early as the next business day in many cases. We collect a transaction fee of 2.3% for each retail POS transaction and a transaction fee of 2.3% + $0.30 for each online transaction. Our Opportunity and Advantages Our OpportunityEmpowering the Everyday Entrepreneur Our customers represent a large and diverse market that we believe is fundamentally underserved by other Internet companies. The International Labour Organization, an agency of the United Nations, estimated in an October 2019 report that more than 90% of enterprises in many countries were small and medium size businesses (defined as having fewer than 250 employees). In the U.S., the U.S. Small Business Administration's Office of Advocacy indicated that there were approximately 32.5 million small businesses in the U.S. (based on the Census Bureau's 2018 Statistics of U.S. Businesses, which was the most recent data available as of publication of this report), and they were estimated to have represented approximately 43.5% of total U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) in 2014. Though these data points do not account for the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on small and medium businesses, we believe the pre-pandemic data demonstrates a significant market exists for our products and services, and we believe our addressable market extends beyond small businesses and includes individuals and organizations, such as universities, community organizations, charities and hobbyists. Our customers are consumers themselves, which makes them keenly aware of the need to have an impactful online presence. While our customers' needs change depending on where they are in their journey, the most common customer needs we serve include: Digital identity . Our customers want to develop a digital identity by finding a name that distinctly identifies their business, hobby or passion. We believe their digital identity includes not just a simple, mobile-enabled website, but the ability to get found across various search engines, social media platforms and vertical marketplaces. And while our customers' online identities start with creating and managing these points of presence, their identities are amplified through content generation and the ability to engage and transact online with their customers and audience. 10 Table of Contents Ubiquitous presence . Ubiquitous presence represents the need of our customers to present themselves to their customers, which they do through an ever-expanding set of options across social media, marketing channels, email, marketplaces and through their website. Being able to seamlessly create and post content quickly is imperative. What it means for our customers to be online continues to evolve. Today, having an effective online presence often means having a combination of: (i) a secure and content-rich website viewable from any device; (ii) a presence on social media channels (e.g., Meta (the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp) and WeChat); (iii) getting found by search engines (e.g., Google); and (iv) being on: (a) an increasing number of horizontal marketplaces (e.g., Yelp and Eventbrite); (b) vertical marketplaces (e.g., Zillow, OpenTable and HomeAdvisor); and (c) e-commerce platforms (e.g., Amazon, eBay, Etsy). Connected commerce . Connected commerce recognizes that our customers need commerce to work seamlessly for them both offline and online. Our customers' customer expectations are set by how they engage with enterprise-grade experiences, which means they expect to be able to buy online and pick up in the store in a matter of minutes. A customer in the store expects to be recognized online seamlessly, while a customer online expects to transition to a store experience seamlessly. For service commerce entrepreneurs, their customers expect to find products and services online, engage through online messaging, book appointments digitally, and complete transactions in-person. Interacting with customers as they grow their business. Our customers need to communicate with their existing customers and find new ones across a landscape that is fragmented in both form and function. They have distinct needs in (i) branded email communication, originating with domain registration and email creation through an email client; (ii) online marketing in a variety of content types and channels; (iii) online commerce with reservation and scheduling, product catalogs and e-commerce and payment processing capabilities, including in-person point-of-sale payment processing; (iv) messaging capabilities across SMS, Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp and other platforms; (v) email marketing for audience engagement; and (vi) telephony, for inbound and outbound voice communication. Surrounding these channels and tactics, our customers also need easy-to-use tools to run their businesses. Technology that is reliable, secure, performance enhancing and evolves with their needs. Our various customer types need a simple platform and set of tools enabling their domain, website, marketing and commerce solutions to easily work together as their ideas grow and become more complex. The right platform can meet the needs of entrepreneurs, who may not be technologically savvy, and our Partners, who have more complex requirements, as well as the range of customers in between who have varying needs and levels of sophistication. All the while, our customers expect reliable products and want to be confident their digital presence is secure, even as they insert customization that can create vulnerabilities. Our customers work on their ideas whenever and however they can and need solutions fitting their lifestyle and schedule. Connecting with a real person when they need help. Our customers sometimes need guidance to set up a website, launch a new feature or try something new. They need real people who are available 24/7/365 and in the manner that works best for them, whether by phone, by chat or in community forums. In addition to guiding our customers along the way, we also provide support by handling the most difficult and arduous tasks for them through a collection of managed service offerings. Affordable solutions . Our customers often have limited financial resources and are unable to make large, upfront investments in the latest technology. Our customers need affordable solutions to level the playing field with the tools to look and act like bigger ventures. Serving these customer needs creates a deep relationship, where we are looked to as not just a solution provider, but also a guide and partner to their entrepreneurial journey. This makes for a favorable business and economic model, aligning the interests of GoDaddy and our customers. Our Advantages Our customers have many roles in their venture; they simultaneously run marketing, accounting, service delivery operations, customer service, people operations and many other tasks. Time is their most valuable resource and complexity is their hindrance; our customers want an impactful online presence, but may not have the time and skills to make that happen. Our goal is to be a trusted partner to these entrepreneurs, bringing together the technology, ease of use and care necessary to bring their ideas to life online. We believe the following strengths provide us with competitive advantages in serving these needs: 11 Table of Contents Global Brand Awareness. We have a global brand with high awareness and the ability to leverage our brand with new categories, which is a competitive advantage when customers search for solutions. We have over 21 million paying customers. We have 55 global sites and in 2021, 45% of our customer base and a third of our revenue derived from our international presence. Our customers value our suite of products - over 84 million domains, 12% of the application-built websites in the world and over 10 million mailboxes - resulting in greater than 85% customer retention rates. Our email penetration rates continued to grow reaching 25% of GoDaddy customers in 2021, and Websites + Marketing has grown share by 40% in the last 3 years. Seamlessly Intuitive Experiences. Our customers often self-identify as non-technical and inexperienced in areas such as marketing, content creation and customer management. Because they may lack the expertise to take full advantage of powerful tools, customers may be overwhelmed as they attempt to bring their idea online. We believe the solution to this complexity is to radically simplify our solutions and services into seamlessly intuitive experiences. GoDaddy has the two leading website building CMSs, Managed WordPress and Websites + Marketing. With Managed WordPress, we have dramatically reduced the complexity of provisioning, managing and customizing the WordPress CMS by wrapping it with our own security tools (WAF, CDN and SSL), design tools, plug-in pre-installs at initiation and automatic, managed updates. With Websites + Marketing, our own captive CMS, we incorporate seamlessly intuitive experiences by uniting marketing, content, commerce and customer management tools into a single experience. We also seek to leverage data and insights to personalize the products and experiences of our customers as well as tailor our solutions and marketing efforts to each of our customer groups. We constantly seek to improve our website, marketing programs and customer care to intelligently respond to each stage of our customers' lifecycles and identify their specific product needs. This allows us to interact more frequently with our customers. We intend to continue investing in our technology and data platforms to further enable our personalization efforts. Sage Guidance. Our customers deeply value expertise and know-how, which has been part of the GoDaddy DNA through our GoDaddy Guides since our founding. Our customers' needs are highly individualized and unique to their ventures, which makes operating a guidance experience at scale a substantial form of differentiation. In recent years, we have extended this competency into several new interfaces and subject matters. These interfaces allow us to take learnings and insights gained from customer interactions to build and grow our product and service offerings and drive more thoughtful engagements for our customers. For example, within our Websites + Marketing platform, we are now creating customized action plans for our customers as they seek to market their businesses in a number of different channels based on the type of their venture and their geography. Additionally, within our Websites + Marketing platform we recently launched an in-editor chat experience with our GoDaddy Guides, who are able to strategically assist our customers through aesthetic decisions and help them with technical challenges. And finally, we have significantly increased the training and engagement content available to our customers, through a number of different content forums and across platforms like YouTube and Instagram. Exponential Power of our Community. GoDaddy is a large aggregator of paying small businesses and ventures in the world, with a wealth of diversity across industry verticals, life stages, levels of sophistication and geographies. Our customers gain valuable insights when they are able to share experiences and skills, but the challenge is that the exchange of information is cumbersome. We aim to activate our community and lower the barriers for connection, for the betterment of our customers. This occurs in discreet areas of our business today such as in our domain aftermarket and GoDaddy Websites + Marketing's InSight platform and it is something in which we continue to invest in with our other products and services. Operations Human Capital Our people embody the same grit and determination as our customers. Our world-class engineers, designers, marketers and GoDaddy Guides share a passion for technology and its ability to change our customers' lives. We value hard work, extraordinary effort, living passionately, taking intelligent risks and working together toward successful customer outcomes. Our relentless pursuit of building value and doing right for our customers has been a crucial ingredient of our growth. 12 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2021, we had 6,611 employees worldwide, including 3,073 GoDaddy Guides, 2,098 in technology and development, 597 in marketing and advertising and 843 in general and administrative. Approximately 2,900 of our GoDaddy Guides are located in international markets, most significantly in India, the Philippines, Spain, Colombia and Mexico, and are directly employed by third-party partners while dedicated to GoDaddy on a full-time basis. A majority of our employees are based in the U.S. and Europe. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union or are party to any collective bargaining agreement in connection with his, her or their employment with us. Certain of our employees in Germany are represented by employee works councils and some other internationally based employees are represented by worker representatives in accordance with local regulations. At GoDaddy, we strive for a workplace culture where everyone has the opportunity to thrive. We support this goal by focusing on key human capital initiatives including: Pay Equity. We actively work to attract a diverse employee population and are committed to providing equitable opportunity in all aspects of employment. For the past seven years, we have published an annual diversity and pay equity report and, according to our analysis, we believe we have paid men and women substantially the same for performing similar jobs across the company for all entities included in the analysis. In 2017, we began reporting on our pay practices across U.S. based minority and non-minority employee populations and have reported each year that we believe, based on such data, that we have paid minorities and non-minorities substantially the same for performing similar jobs across the company. Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging. Not only are we committed to increasing workforce diversity, but we have launched various initiatives to further our goal of being a more diverse, inclusive and equitable workplace. We have several Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), which are employee-led groups formed around a common interest. Our ERGs play a critical role in fostering diversity, inclusion and belonging within GoDaddy. They help drive GoDaddy's vision, mission, values and strategic direction in the areas of recruitment and retention, learning and development and business/community development outreach. In addition, we actively work to eliminate unconscious bias in our company by providing training and recognizing and combating unconscious bias in our hiring, performance review and promotion processes. We also received perfect scores on the 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 Corporate Equality Index administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. Learning and Professional Development. We are committed to providing fulfilling career development opportunities for our employees. We offer extensive classes to our employees spanning leadership, sales, service and technology through e-learning, instructor-led content classes, video based and blended platforms. For our GoDaddy Guides, we offer continuing education and training programs that are immersive with environments, technology, and tools that enable active learning. Employee Engagement. We conduct an annual employee engagement survey, GoDaddy Voice. Over 90% of our employees participated in the survey in 2021. Approximately 92% of survey respondents feel empowered to bring their authentic selves to work and 94% believe their colleagues treat each other with respect. Additionally, we monitor employee responses to ensure employees feel connected and engaged with GoDaddy's mission, our customers and their own teams. Community Investment. Our social impact work, overseen by our GoDaddy for Good team, is an extension of our company vision and mission. Through our global volunteer and matching programs, we enable our employees to volunteer in their communities with paid time off, and we match employee donations to qualifying nonprofits of choice up to $1,500 per employee per year or country equivalent. In addition, our employees can earn funds for nonprofits they volunteer with through our volunteer rewards program. Technology and Infrastructure Our products, customer experiences and business systems are enabled by our technology and infrastructure to ensure scalability, security and flexibility. Technology and development expenses, including those expenses related to our technology platform, were $706 million, $560 million and $493 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. During the five years ended December 31, 2021, we invested to support our growth with $2,549 million in technology and development expenses. The growth in our technology and development expenses has been driven primarily by our focus on enhancing customer experiences through the use of software-driven products. Additionally, we offer Domain Registry and Corporate Domains solutions to our customers. We have built a scalable infrastructure platform allowing us to optimize for economies of scale and enable next-generation hosting architecture for our customers, while investing in faster, denser and more efficient data centers, improved network connectivity and improved resiliency, both domestically and internationally. 13 Table of Contents We aim to provide a reliable and secure global platform and infrastructure. Our investments in technology, including engineers, patents, online security, customer privacy, reliable infrastructure and data science capabilities, enable us to innovate and deliver personalized solutions to our customers. Our API-driven technology platform is built on state-of-the-art, open source technologies like Hadoop, OpenStack and other large-scale, distributed systems. Additionally, our platform allows our developers to create new and enhanced products or product features assembled from common building blocks leading to faster deployment cycles. We believe our products work well together and are more valuable and easier to use together than if our customers purchased them individually from other companies and tried to integrate them. As of December 31, 2021, we had 2,098 employees in technology and development, 314 issued patents and 124 pending patent applications in the U.S. Physical Infrastructure and Management Our physical technology infrastructure supports our products, experiences and business systems through servers located in data centers around the world. As the world's largest managed authoritative DNS provider and a leading website hosting platform, we invested significantly in our peering architecture and underlying infrastructure management to handle significant Internet traffic at low bandwidth costs. We invested in the automation of common physical data center components like servers, load balancers, switches and storage and, we use open source solutions when possible to automate manual processes and thereby reduce the risk of human error and lower costs. Additionally, we are beginning to use a single automated infrastructure based on OpenStack to enable next-generation services. We continue to migrate most of our non-hosting products and internal systems to AWS, which has accelerated our ability to provide speed and reliability in both our product and customer experiences. These efforts and our large technology infrastructure footprint allow us to scale and provide our customers with valuable products at affordable prices. Customer Experience and Business Systems Our platform provides our customers fast, simple and customer-centric products across the globe, by allowing us to easily and quickly build and deploy new products incorporating our data insights. Our investments in our platform capabilities include the following: E-commerce Platform and Application Services. While we continue to use our existing platform, we have developed and begun to implement a new e-commerce platform. We expect this new platform to enhance our value proposition to our customers by offering comprehensive, flexible and integrated solutions that can be rapidly scaled up or down, used across multiple platforms and integrated with third-party offerings. Both our existing and new platforms also allow resellers to easily sell our products, thereby broadening our distribution channels. We seek to continuously launch new and relevant applications and streamline our existing offerings in order to provide the best user experience to our customers. Data Platform. Our horizontal data platform helps us be a trusted source of data about our customers and their online ideas through accurate, meaningful and easily consumable data insights, which allows us to build best-in-class, personalized experiences for our customers. Our data platform is key to helping us deepen our customer and business insights; these insights enable innovation through instrumentation, experimentation and analysis. Content and Marketing Platform. Our content and marketing platforms leverage the latest technology, operational and production models that enable us to deliver customer-centric digital experiences at an accelerated pace through multiple touchpoints and channels. Our content platform and content creation processes help us realize efficiencies and scalability, which enhance our ability to drive new, high-quality products and customer experiences to market faster. We are focused on driving advancements in experimentation, the speed and volume of content creation, localization and content self-service, while ensuring platform availability and performance. We are also delivering new engagement marketing capabilities that improve business effectiveness and customer experiences. Enterprise Operations. We recently implemented an enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform across our human capital management operations and financial and procurement operations; we continue to make improvements to these systems as needed. 14 Table of Contents Product Development We invested heavily in our product development teams as we expanded the ways we serve our customers to adjust to their changing needs from primarily domain name registration and hosting to a broader spectrum of offerings. Our primary website building products (Websites + Marketing and Managed WordPress), website security suite, email offerings (Microsoft Office 365 and Open X-change), commerce and domain aftermarket each represent significant need states that are complementary to our long-standing offerings and benefit from our strengths as a company in human-infused technology. Our product development investments have grown at a significantly higher rate than our physical infrastructure and business system expenses, reflecting our expanding role in enabling our customers' success with a powerful digital presence. Our key product development initiatives include: Powering a Simple and Effortless Presence . We offer a range of products and services that help our customers get their ideas online. Websites + Marketing combines a mobile-optimized website builder with an integrated set of marketing and e-commerce tools to help our customers create an audience for their idea or business, enabling them to design a professional website in under an hour. We continue to invest in Websites + Marketing and other tools, templates and technology to make building, maintaining and updating a professional looking mobile or desktop presence simple and easy. In 2020, we introduced GoDaddy Studio (formerly Over), a web and mobile app that empowers everyday entrepreneurs to create visual content by customizing templates we provide or creating from scratch with simple design tools. Additionally, we are investing in products to help our customers drive their customer acquisition, retention and communication efforts by managing their presence across search engines, social networks and vertical marketplaces and keep their online presence and information secure. Making the Business of Business Easy . Our business applications range from domain-specific email and email marketing to telephony services and payment tools to help our customers communicate with their customers and grow their ideas. In April 2021, we acquired Re:amaze, a communications platform to help small businesses support, engage and convert customers through email, text, online chat, social media, voice and video conversations. We intend to continue investing in the breadth of our product offerings to help our customers connect with their customers and run their ventures. Delivering the Next Generation of Naming . The first generation of naming included a limited set of gTLDs, such as .com and .net, and ccTLDs, such as .uk and .in. Hundreds of new gTLDs were introduced in 2013 through the Expansion Program, expanding the available inventory for us and our customers. Through GoDaddy Registry, we operate back-end registry management for more than 215 TLDs. Additionally, we have invested to expand the secondary market to help match buyers to sellers who already own domains. Our GoDaddy Investor mobile application helps investors watch and bid on domains at auction and stay on top of current bids from their mobile devices. We continue to invest in search, discovery and recommendation tools and transfer protocols for both primary and secondary domains. Partnering Up. Our flexible platform also enables us to acquire companies and quickly launch new products for our customers, including through partnerships such as Microsoft Office 365 for email. We have also acquired companies and technologies to complement our product and service offerings and expand our geographic footprint. We intend to continue identifying value-added technology acquisition targets and partnership opportunities. Helping customers sell anything anywhere. Our commerce solutions are designed to enable customers to seamlessly sell both online and offline. In 2021, we launched several commerce solutions including: Two POS devices, the Smart Terminal and mobile Card Reader that allow customers to sell, track and manage their sales both online and offline; GoDaddy Payments, a payments solution that enables GoDaddy Websites + Marketing and Managed WordPress WooCommerce customers to handle all of their commerce transactions directly through GoDaddy; WooCommerce payments extensions that give merchants the ability to easily and securely accept any major credit or debit card for transactions on sites built with WooCommerce and WordPress; and Commerce Hub which helps our customers easily manage and track every sale they make, whether that takes place online, offline, or more commonly in today's landscape, a hybrid of the two. In the future we will continue to innovate in commerce solutions that are easy-to-use, allow our customers to sell anywhere and at industry-low pricing. 15 Table of Contents Marketing We believe GoDaddy is one of the most recognized Internet brands in the U.S. with increased awareness globally. We have established this high level of brand awareness primarily through our advertising campaigns across various platforms including television commercials, print, online and billboards, and have supplemented these advertising campaigns with athlete, celebrity sponsorships and social media influencers. Over the five years ended December 31, 2021, we have invested $1,833 million in marketing and advertising expenses. Our strong brand has helped us attract and retain 21.2 million customers as of December 31, 2021. We intend to continue investing in our brand as we seek to further grow our total customers, particularly internationally. Customer referrals are another highly efficient and cost-effective channel for acquiring customers. We complement our brand marketing efforts with focused and metric-driven direct response marketing to acquire new customers. We use a variety of targeted online marketing programs for lead generation, including search engine marketing, search engine optimization and targeted email and social media marketing campaigns, as well as more traditional direct marketing and indirect channel partner marketing programs, to drive interest in our products and traffic to our websites. As part of this effort, we regularly run campaigns simultaneously and constantly refine our media mix across our channels. Central to our international strategy is a philosophy of localizing our product offerings and customer experience and deploying them through our global infrastructure. As of December 31, 2021, we had over 9.6 million customers outside of the U.S. and derived approximately 32%, 32% and 33% of our total bookings from international sales in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We have built a dedicated team responsible for the internationalization and localization of our core product offerings as well as our customer care and marketing efforts. In conjunction with our localization efforts, we added on-the-ground regional teams and increased our country and regional specific marketing spend. These investments enabled us to successfully launch and expand our business outside the U.S. and as of December 31, 2021, we provided localized products and customer care in 55 markets around the world. We took a rigorous approach to managing the level of investment we expect to make in each geographic market we enter based on a market tier approach. We expect to continue to expand internationally, growing our share and increasing penetration of the international markets we have entered in recent years. Competition We provide cloud-based solutions enabling individuals, businesses and organizations to establish an online presence, connect with customers and manage their ventures. The market for providing these solutions is highly fragmented and competitive. These solutions are also rapidly evolving, creating opportunity for new competitors to enter the market with point-solution products or address specific segments of the market. In some instances, we have commercial partnerships with companies with which we also compete. Given our broad product portfolio, we compete with niche point-solution products and broader solution providers. Our competitors include providers of: domain registration services and web-hosting solutions such as Donuts, United Internet, Namecheap, Newfold Digital, Automattic and WP Engine; website creation and management solutions such as Shopify, Squarespace and Wix; commerce capabilities such as Square, BigCommerce, Stripe and PayPal; cloud-infrastructure services and online security providers such as CloudFlare, Comodo, Let's Encrypt, LiquidWeb and SiteGround; alternative web presence, social platform and marketing solutions such as Amazon, Google, Meta (the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp), MindBody, Toast, TikTok, OpenTable and Yelp; and productivity tools such as business-class email, calendaring and messaging such as Google, Grasshopper, Microsoft, WeChat, WhatsApp and Zoho. We believe the principal competitive factors include: product capabilities meeting customer requirements, a secure, reliable and integrated technology platform, cost-effective customer acquisition, brand awareness and reputation, customer service and support and overall customer satisfaction. We believe we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. For additional information, see "Risk Factors." 16 Table of Contents Regulation Our business is subject to regulation by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), federal and state laws in the U.S. and the laws of other jurisdictions in which we do business. ICANN . The registration of domain names is governed by ICANN, a multi-stakeholder private sector, not-for-profit corporation formed in 1998 for the express purposes of overseeing a number of Internet related tasks, including management of the DNS, allocation of IP addresses, accreditation of domain name registrars and registries and the definition and coordination of policy development for all of these functions. We are accredited by ICANN as a domain name registrar and registry and thus our ability to offer domain name registration products is subject to our ongoing relationship with, and accreditation by, ICANN. The regulation of Internet domain names in the U.S. and in foreign countries is subject to change. ccTLD Authorities . The regulation of ccTLDs is governed by national regulatory agencies of the country underlying the specific ccTLDs, such as the U.S. (.us), Colombia (.co), China (.cn), Canada (.ca) and the UK (.uk). Our ability to sell ccTLDs is dependent on our and our partners' abilities to maintain accreditation in good standing with these various international authorities. Advertising and promotional information presented on our websites and in our products, and our other marketing and promotional activities, are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws regulating unfair and deceptive practices. U.S. federal, state and foreign legislatures have also adopted laws and regulations regulating numerous other aspects of our business. Regulations relating to the Internet, including laws governing online content, user privacy and data protection, automatic renewal laws, taxation, liability for third-party activities, are particularly relevant to our business. A sample of such laws and regulations is discussed below. Communications Decency Act (CDA) . The CDA regulates content of material on the Internet, and provides immunity to Internet service providers and providers of interactive computer services for certain claims based on content posted by third parties. The CDA and the case law interpreting it generally provide that domain name registrars and website hosting providers cannot be liable for defamatory or obscene content posted by customers on registrars' servers unless they participate in creating or developing the content. The Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act (SESTA) and Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 (FOSTA), which became effective in April 2018, amend certain portions of the CDA, which may limit the immunity previously available to us under the CDA. Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) . The DMCA provides domain name registrars and website hosting providers a safe harbor from liability for third-party copyright infringement. To qualify for the safe harbor, however, registrars and website hosting providers must satisfy numerous requirements, including adopting a user policy providing for termination of service access of users who are repeat infringers, informing users of this policy and implementing the policy in a reasonable manner. In addition, registrars and website hosting providers must expeditiously remove or disable access to content upon receiving a proper notice from a copyright owner alleging infringement of its protected works. A registrar or website hosting provider failing to comply with these safe harbor requirements may be found liable for copyright infringement. Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act (ACPA) . The ACPA was enacted to address piracy on the Internet by curtailing a practice known as "cybersquatting," or the bad-faith registration of a domain name identical or similar to another party's trademark, or to the name of another living person, in order to profit from that name or mark. The ACPA provides that registrars may not be held liable for damages for registration or maintenance of a domain name for another person absent a showing of the registrar's bad faith intent to profit. Registrars may, however, be held liable if their activities are deemed outside the scope of basic registrar functions. Lanham Act . The Lanham Act governs trademarks and false advertising. Case law interpreting the Lanham Act has limited liability for many Internet service providers such as search engines and domain name registrars. Nevertheless, there is no statutory safe harbor for trademark violations comparable to the provisions of the DMCA, and we may be subject to a variety of trademark claims in the future. Privacy and Data Protection . In the areas of personal privacy and data protection, the U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on, and requirements associated with, the collection, distribution, use, storage and security of personal information of individuals. In addition, in several jurisdictions in which we operate, data protection is more highly regulated and rigidly enforced. For example, the European Union (E.U.) has enacted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), superseding the 1995 European Union Data Protection Directive. The GDPR includes stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of EU personal data with broad extra-territorial effect and imposes 17 Table of Contents significant penalties for non-compliance. As we continue to expand our operations in Europe and elsewhere, we expect compliance with these regulatory schemes to be more burdensome and costly for us. In addition, California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) in 2018 (effective January 1, 2020), which was further modified by the passage of the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) in the November 2020 election. The CCPA, as modified, requires covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers and afford such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. Payments Regulation . Various U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the payments industry, including the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 and state money transmitter licensing laws. Our payments services may be or become subject to regulation by authorities, which would subject us to, among other things, (i) record-keeping, reporting and bonding requirements, (ii) limitations on the investment of customer funds and (iii) inspection by state and federal regulatory agencies. In order to offer retail point-of-sale solutions that connect to payment networks, retail point-of-sale providers must certify their products and services with the payment card networks, financial institutions and payment processors, as well as comply with government and telecommunications company regulations including those imposed by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and similar telecommunications authorities worldwide. Laws and regulations relating to our activities are unsettled in many jurisdictions, and may prove difficult or impossible to comply with in some jurisdictions. Additionally, federal, state, local and foreign governments are also considering legislative and regulatory proposals that would regulate the Internet and our activities in more and different ways than exist today. It also is impossible to predict whether new taxes will be imposed on our services, and depending upon the type of such taxes, whether and how we would be affected. Laws and regulations in the U.S. or in foreign jurisdictions may be applied in new or different manners in pending or future litigation. Further, other existing bodies of law, including the criminal laws of various jurisdictions, may be deemed to apply to our activities, or new statutes or regulations may be adopted in the future. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights Our intellectual property and proprietary rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality and access-related procedures and safeguards and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technologies, confidential information, brands and other intellectual property. As of December 31, 2021, we had 314 issued patents in the U.S. covering various aspects of our product offerings. Additionally, as of December 31, 2021, we had 124 pending U.S. patent applications and intend to file additional patent applications in the future. We have non-disclosure, confidentiality and license agreements with employees, contractors, customers and other third parties, which limit access to and use of our proprietary information. Though we rely in part upon these legal and contractual protections, as well as various procedural safeguards, we believe the skill and ingenuity of our employees, the functionality and frequent enhancements to our solutions and our ability to introduce new products and features meeting the needs of our customers are more important to maintaining our competitive position in the marketplace. We have an ongoing trademark and service mark registration program pursuant to which we register our brand names and product names, taglines and logos in the U.S. and other countries to the extent we determine appropriate and cost-effective. We also have common law rights in some unregistered trademarks that were established over years of use. In addition, we have a trademark and service mark enforcement program pursuant to which we monitor applications filed by third parties to register trademarks and service marks that may be confusingly similar to ours, as well as the use of our major brand names in social media, domain names and other Internet sites. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware on May 28, 2014. Our principal executive offices are located at 2155 E. GoDaddy Way, Tempe, Arizona 85284 and our telephone number is (480) 505-8800. Available Information Our website is located at www.godaddy.com and our investor relations website is located at investors.godaddy.net. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Proxy Statements are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports, proxy and information statements we file or furnish with the SEC. 18 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision in our common stock. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, reputation, operating results and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation, and growth prospects. Risk Factor Summary The following is a summary of the principal risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and growth prospects. We may be unable to attract and retain customers or increase sales to new and existing customers. We may not successfully develop and market products that meet or anticipate our customers' needs, whether organically or inorganically, or may not develop such products on a timely basis. If we are unable to attract and retain customers and increase sales to new and existing customers, our business and operating results would be harmed. Our business will suffer if the small business market for our solutions proves less lucrative than projected or if we fail to effectively acquire and service small business customers. If we are unable to attract a more diverse customer base, such as Partners, Domain Registrars and Investors, other Registrars and Corporate Domain Portfolio owners and tech savvy users, for which we have developed more customized solutions and applications, our business, growth prospects and operating results could be adversely affected. Our brand is integral to our success. If we fail to protect or promote our brand, our business and competitive position may be harmed. We face significant competition for our products in the domain name registration, website building and web-hosting markets and other markets in which we compete, which we expect will continue to intensify, and we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position or market share. The future growth of our business depends in significant part on increasing our international bookings. Our continuing international expansion efforts subject us to additional risks. We have made significant investments to support our growth strategy. These investments may not succeed. If we do not effectively manage future growth, our operating results will be adversely affected. We may acquire other businesses or talent, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. We may enter into new lines of business that offer new products and services, which may subject us to additional risks. A network attack, a security breach or other data security incident could delay or interrupt service to our customers, harm our reputation or subject us to significant liability. If the security of the confidential information or personal information we or our vendors or partners maintain, including that of our customers and the visitors to our customers' websites stored in our systems, is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be harmed and we may be exposed to liability. We rely on our marketing efforts and channels to promote our brand and acquire new customers. These efforts may require significant expense and may not be successful or cost-effective. Our future performance depends in part on the services and performance of our senior management and key employees. If we are unable to hire, retain, manage and motivate qualified personnel, our business could suffer. 19 Table of Contents Our failure to properly register or maintain our customers' domain names could subject us to additional expenses, claims of loss or negative publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our quarterly and annual operating results may be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below investor or analyst expectations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business and our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, as well as divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments and prevent us from meeting our debt obligations. Governmental and regulatory policies or claims concerning the domain name registration system and the Internet in general, and industry reactions to those policies or claims, may cause instability in the industry and disrupt our business. We are subject to privacy and data protection laws and regulations as well as contractual privacy and data protection obligations. Our failure to comply with these or any future laws, regulations or obligations could subject us to sanctions and damages and could harm our reputation and business. Our business depends on our customers' continued and unimpeded access to the Internet and the development and maintenance of Internet infrastructure. Internet access providers may be able to block, degrade or charge for access to certain of our products, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of customers. We may face liability or become involved in disputes over registration and transfer of domain names and control over websites. Our business could be affected by new governmental regulations regarding the Internet. Our business could be negatively impacted by shareholder activism. Our share price may be volatile, and you may be unable to sell your shares. Strategic Risks If we are unable to attract and retain customers and increase sales to new and existing customers, our business and operating results would be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain customers and increase sales to new and existing customers. Although our total customers and revenue have grown rapidly in the past, in recent periods our slower growth rates have reflected the larger size and scale and maturity of our business. We cannot be assured that we will achieve similar growth rates in future periods as our total customers and revenue could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. Our gross customer adds for 2021 have declined relative to 2020 and there is uncertainty regarding levels of customer demand and growth going forward. The rate at which new and existing customers purchase and renew subscriptions to our products could fluctuate or decline as a result of a number of factors, such as lower demand for domain names, websites and related products, declines in our customers' level of satisfaction with our products and the support provided by our GoDaddy Guides, the timeliness and success of product enhancements and introductions by us and those of our competitors, the pricing offered by us and our competitors, and the frequency and severity of any system outages, breaches, or technological change. Our revenue has grown historically due in large part to sustained customer growth rates and strong renewals of subscriptions to our domain name registration and hosting and presence products. Our future success depends in part on maintaining strong renewals. Our costs associated with renewals are substantially lower than costs associated with acquiring new customers and selling additional products to existing customers. Therefore, a reduction in renewals, even if offset by an increase in other revenue, would reduce our operating margins in the near term. Any failure by us to continue to attract new customers or maintain strong renewals could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and operating results. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract a more diverse customer base, such as Partners, Domain Registrars and Investors, other Registrars and Corporate Domain Portfolio owners and tech savvy users, for which we have developed more customized solutions and applications, our business, growth prospects and operating results could be adversely affected. Our business has been focused in the past few years on serving users who are considering starting a business and small or medium-sized businesses and ventures that are up and running but need help growing and expanding their digital capabilities. We are also focused on other customer populations, such as Partners, Domain Registrars and Investors, other Registrars and Corporate Domain Portfolio owners, including those that are more technically savvy. For these customers we are developing new features and applications. For example, for our technically-sophisticated web designers, developers and customers, we provide high-performance, flexible hosting and security products that can be used with a variety of open source design tools as well as Managed WordPress. Some of our newly developed products are suited for more technically skilled customers. If we are unable to increase sales of our products to all customer segments we may target, our estimated total addressable market may be overstated and our business, growth prospects and operating results may be adversely affected. Our business will suffer if the small business market for our solutions proves less lucrative than projected or if we fail to effectively acquire and service small business customers. We focus our operations on small businesses, which frequently have limited budgets and may choose to allocate resources to items other than our solutions, especially in times of economic uncertainty or recessions. We believe that the small business market is underserved, and we intend to continue to devote substantial resources to it, including through our Partners who sell directly to their customers, some of which are small businesses. We aim to grow our revenues by adding new small business customers, selling additional business solutions to existing small business customers and encouraging existing small business customers to continue to use and purchase our products and services. If the small business market fails to be as lucrative as we project or we are unable to market and sell our services to small businesses effectively, directly or through our Partners, our ability to grow our revenues and become profitable will be harmed. If we do not successfully develop and market products that anticipate or respond promptly to the needs of our customers, our business and operating results may suffer. The markets in which we compete are characterized by constant change and innovation, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards, and we expect them to continue to evolve rapidly. Our historical success has been based on our ability to identify and anticipate customer needs and design products providing entrepreneurs, small businesses and ventures with the tools they need to create, manage and augment their digital identity. In response to evolving customer needs, we launched freemium offers for Websites + Marketing, introduced free trials of our digital marketing suite, enabled an enhanced functionality with GoFundMe, introduced robust gift card functionality and virtual appointment support, expanded our capabilities with PayPal and launched basic messaging capability to allow our customers to connect with their customers. In September 2021, we further expanded our product offerings with the launch of OmniCommerce, which provides customers with an enhanced suite of tools to sell, track and manage sales, and extended GoDaddy Payments (formerly Poynt) with the launch of two POS devices that integrate into our newly-created dashboard, Commerce Hub. To the extent we are not able to continue to identify challenges faced by entrepreneurs, small businesses and ventures and provide products responding in a timely and effective manner to their evolving needs, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. The process of developing new products and technology is complex and uncertain. If we fail to accurately predict customers' changing needs, such as the need for expanded online and offline commerce tools, or emerging technological trends, such as artificial intelligence, or if we fail to achieve the benefits expected from our investments in technology, our business could be harmed. These product and technology investments include those we develop internally, such as our "do-it-yourself" website builder Websites + Marketing, our hosting platforms and our security products, those we acquire and develop as a result of acquisitions, such as GoDaddy Payments (formerly Poynt), GoDaddy Studio (formerly Over), Uniregistry's registrar and brokerage business, several registry businesses including Neustar, and SkyVerge, and those related to our partner programs, such as Microsoft. We must continue to commit significant resources to develop our technology to maintain our competitive position, and these commitments will be made without knowing whether such investments will result in products our customers need and will buy. Our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain meaningful customer acceptance for many reasons, including: failure to accurately predict market demand or customer preferences; defects, errors or failures in product design or performance; negative publicity about product performance or effectiveness, including negative comments on social media; 21 Table of Contents poor business conditions for our customers or poor general macroeconomic conditions, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic; the perceived value of our products or product enhancements relative to their cost; and changing regulatory requirements adversely affecting the products we offer. There is no assurance we will successfully identify new opportunities, develop and bring new products to market on a timely basis, or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance by our customers, or if our new products do not result in increased sales or subsequent renewals, our competitive position will be impaired, our anticipated revenue growth may not be achieved and the negative impact on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the upfront technology and development, marketing and advertising and other expenses we may incur in connection with new products or enhancements. In addition, we may migrate our customers from a product that we intend to retire to another, substantially similar product. We may experience technical or other complications during such migration, which could result in a poor customer experience and which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our brand is integral to our success. If we fail to protect or promote our brand, our business and competitive position may be harmed. Protecting and maintaining awareness of our brand is important to our success, particularly as we seek to attract new customers globally and to increase customer awareness of our full portfolio of products. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, substantial resources to increase our brand awareness, both generally and in specific geographies and to specific customer groups, such as individual entrepreneurs, Partners, including designers, developers and agencies, and Domain Investors. If our efforts to protect and promote our brand are not successful, our operating results may be adversely affected. GoDaddy could become the target of organized activist groups seeking to bring attention to elements of our brand, products, business model, employment practices, advertising, spokespeople, locations, or other matters of our business in order to gain support for their interests or deter us from continuing practices with which they disagree. In the past we have been successful in striking a balance in our response, but we may not be as successful in the future, such that our brand, company culture or results of operations could be harmed. Evolving technologies and administration of the Internet, and the resulting changes in customer behavior and customer practices may impact the value of and demand for our products, including domain names and our websites. The domain name registration market continues to evolve and adapt to changing technology. This evolution may include changes in the administration or operation of the Internet, including the creation and institution of alternate systems for directing Internet traffic without using the existing domain name registration system, or fundamental changes in the domain name resolution protocol used by web browsers and other Internet applications. The widespread acceptance of any alternative system, such as mobile applications or closed networks, could eliminate the need to register a domain name to establish an online presence and could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, businesses are increasingly relying solely on social media applications, such as Instagram, to reach their customers, and consumers are accessing the Internet more frequently through applications on mobile devices. As reliance on these applications increases, domain names may become less prominent and their value may decline. We are dependent on the interoperability of our products with these applications and mobile devices. If we are unable to effectively integrate our products within these applications or on these devices, we may lose market share. These evolving technologies and changes in customer behavior may have an adverse effect on our business and growth prospects. Historically, Internet users navigated to a website by directly typing its domain name into a web browser or navigation bar. The domain name serves as a branded, unique identifier not unlike a phone number or email address. However, search engines are increasingly being used to find and access a website rather than using the web browser navigation bar. If search engines modify their algorithms, our websites may appear less prominently or not at all in search results, which could result in reduced traffic to such websites. Additionally, if the costs of search engine marketing services, such as Google AdWords, increase, we may incur additional marketing expenses or be required to allocate a larger portion of our marketing spend to this channel and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents We face significant competition for our products in the domain name registration, website building and web-hosting markets and other markets in which we compete, which we expect will continue to intensify, and we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position or market share. The market for our products is highly fragmented and competitive. These solutions are also rapidly evolving, creating opportunity for new competitors to enter the market with point-solution products or address specific segments of the market. Given our broad product portfolio, we compete with niche point-solution products and broader solution providers. Our competitors include providers of domain registration services, web-hosting solutions, website creation and management solutions, e-commerce enablement providers, payment facilitation providers, cloud computing service and online security providers, alternative web presence and marketing solutions providers and providers of productivity tools such as business-class email. We expect competition to increase in the future from competitors in the domain and hosting and presence markets, such as United Internet, Newfold Digital, Namecheap, Automattic, WP Engine and Donuts, from companies such as Google, Amazon and Microsoft, which provide web-hosting, other cloud-based services, domain name registration and marketing platforms, those companies which offer Internet marketing platforms such as Meta (the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp), TikTok, Yelp and Toast, and Square, BigCommerce, Stripe and PayPal which offer commerce capabilities. In particular, the extension of the Cooperative Agreement between Verisign Inc. (Verisign), the registry for .com and .net, and the U.S. Department of Commerce in 2018 gave Verisign the right to become an ICANN-accredited registrar for any gTLD other than .com. While Verisign has not publicly announced whether it will become a registrar, it would become one of our competitors if it were to do so, which could have a negative impact on our business and industry. In addition, we face competition in the website and e-commerce site building market from competitors such as Wix, Squarespace and Shopify, from providers of social media networks and applications including Meta (the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp) and Tencent, and from digital infrastructure providers including Cloudflare. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, more brand recognition and consumer awareness, more diversified product offerings, greater international scope and larger customer bases than we do, and we may therefore not be able to effectively compete with them. In addition, some of our competitors seek to disrupt the market by offering their services and products at low or no cost; for example, Cloudflare offers domains at wholesale cost and Let's Encrypt offers security certificates at no cost. If these competitors and potential competitors decide to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products in the markets in which we compete, or if the products offered by these companies are more attractive to or better meet the evolving needs of our customers, our market share, growth prospects and operating results may be adversely affected. Increased competition in our industry could result in lower sales, price reductions, reduced margins, loss of market share and increased marketing expenses. Furthermore, conditions in our market could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements, partnering by our competitors or market consolidation. New or existing competitors, or groups of competitors working cooperatively, may invent similar or superior products and technologies competing with our products and technology. The continued entry of competitors into the domain name registration and web-hosting markets, and the rapid growth of some competitors that have already entered each market, may make it difficult for us to maintain our market position. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to provide a better product than our competitors at a competitive price and supported by superior customer care. We may be required to make substantial additional investments in research, development, marketing and sales in order to respond to competition, and there can be no assurance that these investments will achieve any returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. The future growth of our business depends in significant part on increasing our international bookings. Our continuing international expansion efforts subject us to additional risks. Bookings outside of the U.S. represented approximately 32%, 32% and 33% of our total bookings for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We continue to localize our products in numerous markets, languages and currencies, expand our systems to accept payments in forms common outside of the U.S., focus our marketing efforts in numerous non-U.S. geographies, tailor our customer care offerings to serve these markets, expand our infrastructure in various non-U.S. locations and establish customer care operations in overseas locations. Conducting and expanding international operations subjects us to risks we generally do not face in the U.S., including: management, communication and integration problems resulting from language barriers, cultural differences and geographic dispersion of our customers and personnel; language translation of, and associated customer care guidance for, our products; compliance with foreign laws, including laws regarding consumer protection, the Internet and e-commerce or mobile commerce, intellectual property, online disclaimers and advertising, liability of Internet service providers for 23 Table of Contents activities of customers especially with respect to hosted content, competition, anti-bribery, and more stringent laws in foreign jurisdictions relating to consumer privacy and protection of data collected from individuals and other third parties; accreditation and other regulatory requirements to do business and to provide domain name registration and registry services, web-hosting and other products in foreign jurisdictions; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, including our universal terms of service and other agreements due to differences in local legal regimes and court systems; increased expenses incurred in establishing and maintaining office space and equipment for our international operations; greater costs and expenses associated with international marketing and operations; greater risk of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs, trade disputes and tax laws and treaties, particularly due to the UK's exit from the E.U. pursuant to Article 50 of the Treaty on E.U. (Brexit); increased exposure to foreign currency risks; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on demand for our products in international markets; heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies; and the potential for political, social or economic unrest, terrorism, hostilities or war; and multiple and possibly overlapping tax regimes. Furthermore, through our acquisitions of GoDaddy Studio (formerly Over), Uniregistry's registrar and brokerage business and Neustar's registry business, we have continued to expand our international presence with operations in South Africa, Grand Cayman and Colombia. Our international expansion efforts may be slow or unsuccessful to the extent we experience difficulties in recruiting, training, managing and retaining qualified personnel with international experience, language skills and cultural competencies in the geographic markets we target, which could negatively impact our bookings and operating results. Recruiting highly skilled employees in international markets poses additional challenges as we may have less data and market expertise than we have when recruiting domestically. We may also face challenges recruiting and onboarding personnel as we adopt more extensive work-from-home policies. Furthermore, as we continue to expand internationally, it may prove difficult to maintain our corporate culture, which we believe has been critical to our success. In addition, the expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and financial resources. These increased costs may increase our cost of acquiring international customers, which may delay our ability to achieve profitability or reduce our profitability in the future. We may also face pressure to lower our prices in order to compete in emerging markets, which could adversely affect revenue derived from our international operations. In addition, certain of our operations are in higher risk regions such as China, India, Russia and Ukraine. Unanticipated events, such as geopolitical changes, could adversely affect those operations. In particular, there is uncertainty as to the future of U.S. trade policy with respect to China. These and other factors associated with our international operations could impair our growth prospects and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Given the risks associated with our international operations, we may decide to relocate international operations either to other foreign countries or domestically. Any such relocation would require significant management attention and financial resources, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, and may not prove to be successful. We have made significant investments to support our growth strategy. These investments may not succeed. If we do not effectively manage future growth, our operating results will be adversely affected. We continue to work to increase the breadth and scope of our product offerings and operations. To support future growth, we must continue to improve our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and our ability to effectively manage headcount, capital and processes. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower or may develop more slowly than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses relating to our investments in international operations and infrastructure, such as: (i) the expansion of our offerings and marketing presence in India, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa, and Asia; (ii) our targeted marketing spending to attract new customer groups, such as Partners and Independents in non-U.S. markets; and (iii) investments in software systems and additional data center resources to keep pace with the growth of our cloud infrastructure and cloud-based product offerings. We have made significant investments in product development, corporate infrastructure and technology and development, and intend to continue investing in the development of our products and infrastructure and our marketing and GoDaddy Guides. As we continue to grow, our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure may be strained. The scalability and flexibility of our infrastructure depends on the functionality and bandwidth of our data centers, peering sites and servers. The significant growth in our total customers and the increase in the number of transactions we process have increased the amount of our stored customer data. Any loss of data or disruption in our ability to provide our product offerings due to disruptions in our infrastructure, services or third parties we rely on could result in harm to our brand or reputation. Moreover, as our customer base continues to grow and uses our platform for more complicated tasks, we will need to devote additional resources to improve our infrastructure and to enhance its scalability and security. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our operating and business results. We continue to plan for and implement new ERP systems, including e-commerce and revenue recognition, as well as make enhancements to existing platforms and tools. While we are engaged in this work, we may experience difficulties in managing our existing systems and processes, which could disrupt our operations, the management of our finances and the reporting of our financial results. In addition, we will continue to rely on legacy systems while we plan for implementation of new systems; such legacy systems may not be able to scale efficiently as our business grows, which may delay future product launches or enhancements. Our failure to improve our systems and processes or complete such system implementations or enhancements on a timely basis, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business, successfully integrate our acquisitions and to accurately forecast and report our results. We may acquire other businesses or talent, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past made, and may in the future make, acquisitions or investments in companies, talent, products, domain portfolios and technologies we believe will complement or supplement our business and address the needs of our customers, such as our acquisitions of GoDaddy Studio (formerly Over), Uniregistry's registrar and brokerage business, several registry businesses including Neustar, SkyVerge and GoDaddy Payments (formerly Poynt). We cannot ensure we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired products, talent and technology or achieve the revenue and expense synergies we expect as a result of these acquisitions. Even if we do successfully integrate the acquired products we may not successfully integrate the acquired brands into our portfolio or may decide to modify, retire or change the direction of the brands, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to properly evaluate, execute or integrate acquisitions or investments, the anticipated benefits may not be realized, we may be exposed to unknown or unanticipated liabilities and our business and growth prospects could be harmed. In the future, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. When acquiring assets in a business carve-out transaction, we may not identify all of the assets we need to operate that business at closing, which could result in additional expense. In addition, any future acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by our customers, investors and industry analysts. We may have to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or the value of our Class A common stock. Equity issuances in connection with potential future acquisitions may also result in dilution to our stockholders. We may face competition for acquisitions from larger competitors that may have more extensive financial resources, which may increase the cost or limit the availability of acquisitions. In addition, our future operating results may be impacted by performance earn-outs, contingent bonuses or other deferred payments. Furthermore, acquisitions may involve contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional equity-based compensation expense, the recording and subsequent amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets and, if unsuccessful, impairment charges resulting from the write-off of goodwill or other intangible assets associated with the acquisition, any of which could negatively impact our future results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, including issues related to intellectual property, solution quality or architecture, privacy, data protection, information security practices, regulatory compliance practices, employment practices, customer or sales channels and integrations of prior acquisitions. We are also required to integrate, operate and manage an acquired company's security infrastructure, which may be particularly challenging when acquired businesses utilize heavily customized or outdated systems or if we face of loss of personnel of the acquired business. Challenges with acquired systems and/or the loss of personnel familiarity with and responsible for such acquired systems could increase our vulnerability to network attacks, security incidents or similar events. We may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the companies, solutions, technologies, accounting systems, personnel or operations we acquire, particularly if the key personnel are geographically dispersed or choose not to work for us. For example, we have, and may in the future, enter into transition services agreements with a seller for the provision of support services to assist with the orderly integration of the business. We may never realize the benefits of these transition services agreements and we may be unable to manage and coordinate the performance of personnel providing services to us under these agreements. Leaders and personnel at acquired companies may focus on achieving performance earn-outs or contingent payments rather than integrating with us. Additionally, we may not integrate an acquired company onto our systems as planned, requiring us to depend on their legacy systems or a transition services agreement for longer than anticipated. We may enter into new lines of business that offer new products and services, which may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may enter into new lines of business that entail offering new products and services. For example, in August 2020 we completed the acquisition of the Neustar registry business, which represents our entry into the domain name registry business and in February 2021, we completed our acquisition of Poynt (now known as GoDaddy Payments), which represents our entry into the off-line commerce business to supplement our existing e-commerce offerings. Our lack of experience with or knowledge of new lines of business we enter, as well as external factors, such as competitive alternatives, potential conflicts of interest, either real or perceived, and shifting market preferences, may impact our implementation and operation of such new lines of business. Other risks of implementing a new line of business include: potential diversion of management's attention, available cash, and other resources from our existing business; any determination by governmental agencies that any acquisition we undertake is anticompetitive in any relevant market; unanticipated liabilities or contingencies; compliance with additional regulatory burdens; potential damage to existing customer relationships, lack of customer acceptance or inability to attract new customers; and the inability to compete effectively in the new line of business. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the implementation or acquisition of new lines of business or the offering of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity, passion and teamwork that we believe contribute to our success and our business may be harmed. We believe a critical contributor to our success has been our company culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity, a customer-centric focus, passion, teamwork collaboration and loyalty. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team within this co mpany culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to effectively focus on and pursue our company objectives. Our corporate culture is central to our devoted GoDaddy Guides, which is a key component of the value we offer our customers. As we continue to evolve our business, expand our global footprint and product portfolio, and rely more on remote workers, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our culture, which could limit our ability to innovate and operate effectively. We believe we provide a workplace in which employees are best served by direct discussion with management regarding pay, benefits and other workplace practices. Currently none of our workforces in the U.S. is subject to collective bargaining agreements, however, if areas of our 26 Table of Contents workforce were to organize we may find it difficult to maintain our culture, cost structure, and control over the delivery our products, which could adversely impact our culture and results of operations. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, a substantial portion of our personnel, including our GoDaddy Guides, have been working remotely, which could negatively affect our culture. In late 2021, we reopened certain offices and allowed employees to return to such offices on a voluntary basis. We expect to do this for other offices in 2022. We anticipate working arrangements for most employees will differ from the arrangements before the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect that some of our employees may continue to work from home on a full-time or part-time basis. The full or partial return to in-office work and the potential transition to permanent remote working arrangements for some employees may result in increased costs, decreased efficiency, deterioration of company culture and/or other unforeseen challenges. Any failure to preserve our culture could also negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, continue to perform at current levels or execute on our business strategy. Operational Risks We are exposed to the risk of system failures and capacity constraints. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, system failures and outages disrupting the operation of our websites or our products such as web-hosting and email, or the availability of our customer care operations. Our revenue depends in large part on the volume of traffic to our websites, the number of customers whose websites we host on our servers and the availability of our customer care operations. Accordingly, the performance, reliability and availability of our websites and servers for our corporate operations and infrastructure, as well as in the delivery of products to customers, are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers. Any such system failure or outage could generate negative publicity, including on social media, which could negatively impact our reputation and financial results. As we continue our transition over the next several years to AWS to host our products, we have become, and will become, more dependent on third parties to accommodate the high volume of traffic to our websites and those of our customers. We are continually working to expand and enhance our website features, technology and network infrastructure and other technologies to accommodate substantial increases in (i) the volume of traffic on our godaddy.com and affiliated websites, (ii) the number of customer websites we host and (iii) our overall total customers. We may be unable to project accurately the rate or timing of these increases or to successfully allocate resources to address such increases, which could have a negative impact on customer experience and our financial results. In the future, we may be required to allocate additional resources, including spending substantial amounts to build, purchase or lease data centers and equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased customer traffic, as well as increased traffic to customer websites we host. If supply chain disruptions and equipment shortages persist, we may not be able to procure server and other network equipment to accommodate our growth and we may have to purchase such equipment at a higher cost than our historical contracts. We also expect to increasingly rely on third-party cloud computing and hosting providers such as AWS as we transition to the public cloud. We cannot predict whether we will be able to continue to add network capacity from third-party suppliers as we require it. In addition, our network or our suppliers' networks might be unable to achieve or maintain data transmission capacity high enough to process orders or download data effectively or in a timely manner. Our failure, or our suppliers' failure, to achieve or maintain high data transmission capacity could significantly reduce consumer demand for our products. The property and business interruption insurance coverage we carry may be subject to fact-dependent and incident-specific exclusions or may not be adequate to compensate us fully for losses that may occur. We rely on third parties to perform certain key functions, and their failure to perform those functions could result in the interruption of our operations and systems and could result in significant costs and reputational damage to us. We rely on third parties, and other parties with which those third parties contract, to perform certain technology, processing, servicing and support functions on our behalf, and may in the future choose to transition a function previously managed by us to such third parties. In particular, we are in the process of transitioning from company-owned and co-located data centers to third-party cloud computing and hosting providers, including AWS. When we choose to transition a function to a third party, we may spend significant time and effort, incur higher costs than originally expected and experience delays in completing such transition. We may never realize any of the anticipated benefits of relying on such third parties, including acquisition of new customers, improved product features and positive financial results. In addition, these third parties are vulnerable to operational and technological disruptions, including from cyber attacks, which may negatively impact our ability to provide services to our customers, operate our business and fulfill our financial reporting obligations. We may have limited remedies against these third parties in the event of service disruptions. If third parties are unable to perform these functions on our behalf because of service 27 Table of Contents interruptions or extended outages, or because those services are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms, our expenses could increase and our customers' use of our products could be impaired until equivalent services, if available, are identified, obtained and implemented, all of which could adversely affect our business. A network attack, a security breach or other data security incident could delay or interrupt service to our customers, harm our reputation or subject us to significant liability. Our operations depend on our ability to protect our network and systems against interruption, a breach of confidentiality, or other damage from unauthorized entry, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other security threats both within and beyond our control. These threats may arise from human error, fraud, or malice on the part of our employees, insiders, or third parties, or they may result from accidental technological failure. Any of these parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or other third-party users of our systems to disclose sensitive information, wittingly or unwittingly, in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or third parties with whom we interact. As an operator of critical Internet infrastructure, the company is frequently targeted and experiences a high rate of attacks. These include the most sophisticated forms of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat attacks and zero-hour threats. These forms of attacks involve situations where the threat is not compiled or has been previously unobserved within our observation and threat indicators space until the moment it is launched. For example, we regularly experience distributed denial of service (DDOS) attacks aimed at disrupting service to our customers and attempts by hackers to place illegal or abusive content on our or our customers' websites, and we may be subject to DDOS attacks or content abuse in the future. Our response to such DDOS attacks may be insufficient to protect our network and systems, especially as attacks increase in size and nation-state actors use DDOS attacks against political and economic adversaries. In addition, there has been an increase in the number of malicious software attacks in the technology industry generally, including newer strains of malware, ransomware and cryptocurrency mining software. Social engineering efforts may compromise our personnel or those of our third-party vendors, leading to unauthorized access to facilities, systems or information we have a responsibility to protect, which could lead to the unauthorized acquisition of information, the unavailability of systems or information or the compromise of customer accounts. Despite efforts to promote security awareness and training for our personnel and vendors, malicious actors are increasingly sophisticated and successful in their use of social engineering techniques. In 2020 and 2021, we experienced an increased level of social engineering attempts and several successful social engineering efforts, including by a persistent threat actor, which have, among other things, attempted to transfer customer domain names and targeted domains related to cryptocurrency. We have taken steps and continue to work to enhance our security and resilience against social engineering, requiring additional engineering efforts and modifications to our technology architecture as well as the expenditure of time and additional cost. We cannot guarantee that in all cases our efforts will be successful or that future social engineering incidents will have similarly minimal impact to our financial and reputational harm. We cannot guarantee our backup systems, regular data backups, security protocols, network protection mechanisms, cybersecurity awareness training, insider threat protection program, access controls, and other procedures and measures currently in place, or that may be in place in the future, will be adequate to prevent or remedy network and service interruption, system failure, third-party operating systems and software vulnerabilities, damage to one or more of our systems, data loss, security breaches or other data security incidents. Also, our products are cloud-based, and the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers has been increasing as our business has grown. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, worms, other malicious software programs, social engineering attacks, insider threats, credential theft and related abuse, illegal or abusive content or similar disruptive problems caused by our customers, employees, consultants or other Internet users who attempt to invade or disrupt public and private data networks or to improperly access, use or obtain data. Any actual or perceived breach of our security could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory or other government inquiries or investigations, which will require us to expend significant capital and other resources to remediate the breach, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. For example, in July 2018 we discovered a third party had accessed certain data of our Domain Factory customers. We spent significant time and resources responding to the initial incident and subject access requests (SARs) from Domain Factory customers. To date, the Bavarian Data Protection Agency has not rendered its final decision on its investigation of this incident; nor has it issued any fines, but we could be subject to fines in the future related to this incident in an amount we cannot predict at this time. In March 2020, we discovered a threat actor compromised the hosting login credentials of approximately 28,000 hosting customers to their hosting accounts as well as the login credentials of a small number of our personnel. These hosting login 28 Table of Contents credentials did not provide access to the hosting customers' main GoDaddy account. We have spent resources investigating and responding to this activity, notified the impacted customers, reported the activity to applicable regulatory authorities, and are responding to requests for information regarding our data privacy and security practices, including from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) pursuant to Civil Investigative Demands issued in July 2020 and October 2021. The timing of resolution and the outcome of this matter are uncertain. In September 2021, we identified unauthorized access to, and acquisition of, data stored on Confluence, an on-premise corporate content management system, owned and provided by a third party service provider, Atlassian, Inc. We spent significant time and resources to assess the nature of the data exfiltrated and have notified this incident to applicable regulatory authorities and law enforcement. In November 2021, using a compromised password, an unauthorized third party accessed the provisioning system in our legacy code base for Managed WordPress (MWP), which impacted up to 1.2 million active and inactive MWP customers across multiple GoDaddy brands. We reported the MWP incident to applicable regulatory authorities and have responded to inquiries from customers, strategic partners, regulators, and the media. The timing of resolution and outcome of the MWP and Confluence incidents are uncertain. In case of a future incident, a history of past incidents, such as those mentioned herein, may increase the risk of higher sanctions, or that investigations into past incidents may be re-invigorated. If the security of the confidential information or personal information we or our vendors or partners maintain, including that of our customers and the visitors to our customers' websites stored in our systems, is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be harmed and we may be exposed to liability. Our business involves the storage and transmission of confidential information, including personal information. In addition, as nearly all of our products are cloud-based, the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers (including personal information and other potentially sensitive information), and on servers used by our vendors and partners (such as AWS), has been increasing. We take measures intended to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the personal information and other sensitive information, including payment card information, that we collect, store or transmit, but cannot guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure of such information will not occur or that third parties, including nation-states and bad actors, or our personnel or those of our vendors will not gain unauthorized or other malicious access to this information or systems where personal information is processed despite our preventative efforts or those of our vendors or partners. If third parties succeed in penetrating our security measures or those of our vendors and partners, or in otherwise accessing or obtaining without authorization the payment card information or other sensitive or confidential information we or our vendors and partners maintain, we could be subject to liability, loss of business, litigation, government investigations or other losses. As we continue to rely more on third-party and public-cloud infrastructure, such as AWS and other third-party service providers, we have become, and will become, more dependent on third-party security measures to protect against unauthorized access, cyber attacks and the mishandling of customer data and we may be required to expend significant time and resources to address any incidents related to the failure of those third-party security measures. Increased handling of personal information and other customer data and confidential information by vendors, partners and other third parties, including through our increased reliance on third-party and public-cloud infrastructure and other third-party service providers, may create increased risks of unauthorized disclosure, misuse or loss of these types of information. We also anticipate being required to expend significant resources in an effort to maintain and improve efforts in our oversight of vendors and other third parties with whom we share data or otherwise process data on our behalf. In addition, our customers may request we produce evidence of our data security program as part of their own compliance programs. Responding to such requests may be costly and time consuming. If we or our partners experience any breaches or sabotage of our security measures, or otherwise suffer unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, personal information or other confidential information, including payment card information, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to remediate these problems and protect against additional breaches or sabotage. We may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or other similar actors in a timely manner, or at all, due to, among other things, a lack of qualified personnel to handle such problems or the failure of our personnel to follow internal policies and procedures. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are launched against a target, we and our vendors and partners may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures on a timely basis. Advances in computer capabilities, discoveries of new weaknesses, increased likelihood of nation-state cyber attacks, and other developments with software generally used by the Internet community, such as the Meltdown and Spectre vulnerabilities, which exploit security flaws in chips manufactured in the last 20 years, the Shellshock vulnerability in the Linux Bash shell, the Log4Shell vulnerability in the widely used logging library Log4j, continually evolving ransomware attacks, or developments related to vendor software (e.g., SolarWinds Orion product incident), also increase the risk that we, or our customers using our servers and services, will suffer a security breach. We or our partners may also suffer security breaches or unauthorized access to personal information and other 29 Table of Contents confidential information, including payment card information, due to employee error, rogue employee activity, unauthorized access by third parties acting with malicious intent or committing an inadvertent mistake, or social engineering. If a breach of our security or other data security incident occurs or is perceived to have occurred, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and our reputation could be harmed and we could lose current and potential customers. Security breaches or other unauthorized access to personal information and other confidential information, including payment card information, could result in claims against us for unauthorized purchases with payment card information, identity theft or other similar fraud claims as well as for other misuses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Moreover, these claims could cause us to incur penalties from payment card associations (including those resulting from our failure to adhere to industry data security standards), termination by payment card associations of our ability to accept credit or debit card payments, litigation and adverse publicity, and regulatory or other government inquiries or investigations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Although we maintain cyber liability insurance coverage that may cover certain liabilities in connection with a security breach or other security incident, we cannot be certain our insurance coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred, that insurance will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms (if at all) or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim, including if a nation-state is declared the sponsor or perpetrator of such act; for example, following the U.S., UK, Canadian and Australian governments' attribution of Russia for the NotPetya ransomware attack, Zurich American Insurance Co. denied Mondelez International, Inc.'s claim for damages from that attack, resulting in ongoing litigation between Zurich and Mondelez, which raises broader uncertainty across the cyber insurance market regarding the availability of coverage for nation-state-led cyber attacks. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, or denials of coverage based on "act of war" or similar exclusions triggered by attribution of an attack to a nation-state, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches and other data security incidents. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of cloud-based products we offer and operate in more countries. We rely on our marketing efforts and channels to promote our brand and acquire new customers. These efforts may require significant expense and may not be successful or cost-effective. We use a variety of marketing channels to promote our brand, including online keyword search, sponsorships and celebrity endorsements, television, radio and print advertising, email and social media marketing and through the selling and marketing efforts of our GoDaddy Guides who may recommend products or solutions to specifically meet the needs of our customers. In order to maintain and grow our revenues, we need to continuously optimize and diversify our marketing campaigns and strategies and increase our efforts to expand customer awareness of our portfolio of products. There can be no assurance that our marketing efforts will succeed. If we lose access to one or more of these channels, because the adverting costs have become prohibitively expensive or we change our marketing practices for any reason, we may be unable to promote our brand effectively, which could limit our ability to grow our business. Further, if our marketing activities fail to generate traffic to our website, attract new customers or lead to new sales or renewals of our products at the levels we anticipate or our efforts to personalize our marketing efforts are not successful, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. In the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, our advertising expenses were $503.9 million, $438.5 million and $345.6 million, respectively. If these costs or our customer acquisition costs increase or we fail to generate additional sales as a result of our marketing efforts, our business, operating results and financial performance could be adversely affected. Our ability to increase sales of our products is highly dependent on the quality of our customer care. Our failure to provide high-quality customer care would have an adverse effect on our business, brand and operating results. We believe our focus on high-quality customer care is critical to retaining, expanding and further penetrating our customer base, as well as generating additional sales of products to our customers. Our GoDaddy Guides have historically contributed significantly to our total bookings. In 2021, 2020 and 2019, approximately 11%, 12%, and 16% of our total bookings, respectively, were generated from the sale of product subscriptions by our GoDaddy Guides. Most of our current offerings are designed for customers who often self-identify as having limited to no technology skills. Our customers depend on our GoDaddy Guides to guide them as they create, manage and grow their digital identities. Our GoDaddy Guides primarily engage with customers through direct calls, but we also increasingly engage with our customers via other communication channels, such as 30 Table of Contents chat, social media, webcasts and we continue to increase our self-serve solutions. As we continue to broaden our portfolio of solutions, increase the size of our customer base and scope of our solution deployments within our customers' IT infrastructure, we must continue to adapt our customer support organization to ensure our customers continue to receive the high level of customer service which they have come to expect. If we fail to maintain high quality customer care across our communications platforms in accordance with our growing customers' needs, our reputation, financial results and business prospects may be materially harmed. Notwithstanding our commitment to customer care, our customers may occasionally encounter interruptions in service and other technical challenges, including those resulting from our GoDaddy Guides working remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic. An interruption in service and other challenges could negatively impact our business. Our international GoDaddy Guides are engaged through third parties and not directly by us. We continue to refine our efforts in customer care so we can adequately serve our domestic and international customers. A portion of our international GoDaddy Guides are engaged through third parties and not directly employed by us. If our agreements with such third parties are terminated for any reason, we will need to find and/or train alternative providers, which could increase our costs. In addition, such a disruption could adversely impact our ability to serve our customers and to sell products to new and existing customers and we may experience a decline in our subscription renewal rates and in our ability to cross-sell our products and our reputation may suffer, any of which could adversely affect our business, reputation and operating results. Our future performance depends in part on the services and performance of our senior management and key employees. Our future performance will continue to depend on the services and contributions of our senior management and key employees to execute on our business plan and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. The loss of services of senior management or other key employees and the hiring of new senior leaders and key employees, especially in a competitive labor market, could significantly delay or prevent our achievement of strategic objectives, business plans and product development as we transition to new leaders and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, as we expand our product offerings through acquisitions, we may become dependent on the services and contributions of key personnel who join us through such acquisitions. If we are unable to integrate and retain such personnel, our financial condition and operating results may be affected. If we are unable to hire, retain, manage and motivate qualified personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success and ability to innovate depends, in part, on our ability to continue to hire, retain, manage and motivate highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel or delays in hiring required personnel, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we temporarily closed offices and required substantially all personnel to work remotely. In late 2021, we reopened certain offices and allowed employees to return to such offices on a voluntary basis. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have helped our employees adapt to the work from home environment through technology assistance and continued learning opportunities. Our employees remain highly productive. We expect to maintain and continue to improve our productivity and efficiency through the remote work environment, and the hybrid in-person and remote work environment, as our offices continue to open. However, we cannot predict how our employees or business will be impacted by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and we may experience difficulties onboarding new employees, managing employees and maintaining our culture while we work remotely and continue our return-to-office. Competition for highly skilled personnel, particularly employees with technical and engineering skills, is frequently intense, particularly in U.S. tech hubs such as the San Francisco Bay area, Seattle and Austin. Competition may be exacerbated by intensified restrictions on travel and social distancing during the COVID-19 pandemic and other future health crises. We are limited in our ability to recruit global talent by U.S. immigration laws, including those related to H1-B visas. The demand for H-1B visas to fill highly-skilled IT and computer science jobs is greater than the number of H-1B visas available each year. In addition, immigration laws may be modified to further limit the availability of H1-B visas. If a new or revised visa program is implemented, it may impact our ability to recruit, hire and retain qualified skilled personnel, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. To the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. 31 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain our contractual relationships with existing partners or establish new contractual relationships with potential partners, we may not be able to offer the products and related functionality our customers expect. We maintain a network of different types of partners, some of which create integrations with our products. For example, we partnered with Microsoft Corporation to offer Office 365 email and related productivity tools and with Open-Xchange to offer OX-App-suite to our customers. We also worked to make certain of our products interoperable with services such as Yelp, Google, Amazon, WhatsApp and Instagram. In addition, we provide payment options for customers' websites through providers such as PayPal, Stripe, Square and Mercado Libre. We have invested and will continue to invest in partner programs to provide new product offerings to our customers and help us attract additional customers. However, our relationships with our partners may not be as successful in generating new customers as we anticipate, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our total customers. Further, these integrated products could require substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. We also rely on some of our partners to create integrations with third-party applications and platforms used by our customers, such as the email encryption service provided by ProofPoint, email backup and migration services provided by SkyKick and email archiving services provided by Barracuda. If our partners fail to create such integrations, or if they change the features of their applications or alter the terms governing use of their applications in an adverse manner, demand for our products could decrease, which would harm our business and operating results. If we are unable to maintain our contractual relationships with existing partners or establish new contractual relationships with potential partners, we may not be able to offer the products and related functionality our customers expect, and we may experience delays and increased costs in adding customers and may lose customers. Any ineffectiveness of our partner programs could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, our partners may increase the fees they charge us or offer their services on terms that are less than favorable to us, including in connection with renewal negotiations. Such increased costs or less than favorable terms could result in increased costs to customers and potential loss of customers, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our failure to properly register or maintain our customers' domain names could subject us to additional expenses, claims of loss or negative publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business. System and process failures related to our domain name registration service may result in inaccurate and incomplete information in our domain name database. Despite testing, system and process failures and other vulnerabilities may remain undetected or unknown, which could result in compromised customer data, loss of or delay in revenues, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation or increased product costs, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, the requirements for securing and renewing domain names vary from registry to registry and are subject to change. We cannot guarantee we will be able to readily adopt and comply with the various registry requirements. Our failure or inability to properly register or maintain our customers' domain names, whether as a result of the actions of our customers or us, might result in significant expenses and subject us to claims of loss or to negative publicity, which could harm our business, brand and operating results. We rely heavily on the reliability, security and performance of our internally developed systems and operations. Any difficulties in maintaining these systems may result in damage to our brand, service interruptions, decreased customer service or increased expenditures. The reliability and continuous availability of the software, hardware and workflow processes underlying our internal systems, networks and infrastructure and the ability to deliver our products are critical to our business. Any interruptions resulting in our inability to timely deliver our products or customer care, or materially impacting the efficiency or cost with which we provide our products and customer care, would harm our brand, profitability and ability to conduct business. In addition, many of the software and other systems we currently use will need to be enhanced over time or replaced with equivalent commercial products or services, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Enhancing or replacing our systems, networks or infrastructure could entail considerable effort and expense. If we fail to develop and execute reliable policies, procedures and tools to operate our systems, networks or infrastructure, we could face a substantial decrease in workflow efficiency and increased costs, as well as a decline in our revenue. 32 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of data centers to deliver many of our products. If we are unable to renew our data center agreements on favorable terms, or at all, our operating margins and profitability could be adversely affected and our business could be harmed. We own one of our data centers and lease our remaining data center capacity from wholesale providers. We occupy our leased data center capacity pursuant to co-location service agreements with third-party data center facilities, which have built and maintain the co-located data centers for us and other parties. Although we have begun to service some of our customers through our cloud infrastructure as part of our partnership with AWS, we still serve customers from our GoDaddy-owned, Arizona-based data center as well as domestic and international co-located data center facilities most significantly located in Virginia, France, the Netherlands and Singapore. Although we own the servers in these co-located data centers and engineer and architect the systems upon which our platforms run, we do not control the operation of these facilities, and we depend on the operators of these facilities to ensure their proper security, maintenance and insurance. Despite precautions taken at our data centers, these facilities may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from break-ins, computer viruses, crypto-jacking, DDOS or other cyber attacks, acts of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, power loss, telecommunications failures, fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes and similar events. The occurrence of any of these events or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in loss of data (including personal or payment card information), lengthy interruptions in the availability of our services and harm to our reputation and brand. While we have disaster recovery arrangements in place, they have been tested in only very limited circumstances and not during any large-scale or prolonged disasters or similar events. The terms of our existing co-located data center agreements vary in length and expire on various dates through 2033. Only some of our agreements with our co-located data centers provide us with options to renew under negotiated terms. We also have agreements with other critical infrastructure vendors which provide all of our facilities, including our data centers, with bandwidth, fiber optics and electrical power. None of these infrastructure vendors are under any obligation to continue to provide these services after the expiration of their respective agreements with us, nor are they obligated to renew the terms of those agreements. Our existing co-located data center agreements may not provide us with adequate time to transfer operations to a new facility in the event of early termination. If we were required to move our equipment to a new facility without adequate time to plan and prepare for such migration, we would face significant challenges due to the technical complexity, risk and high costs of the relocation. Any such migration could result in significant costs for us and may result in data loss and significant downtime for a significant number of our customers which could damage our reputation and brand, cause us to lose current customers or become unable to new customers and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is exposed to risks associated with credit card and other payment chargebacks, fraud and new payment methods. A majority of our revenue is processed through credit cards and other online payments. If our refunds or chargebacks increase, our processors could require us to create reserves, increase fees or terminate their contracts with us, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our failure to limit fraudulent transactions conducted on our websites, such as the fraudulent sale of domains on our aftermarket platform using stolen account credentials and credit card numbers, could increase the number of refunds we have to process and could also subject us to liability and adversely impact our reputation. Under credit card association rules, penalties may be imposed at the discretion of the association for inadequate fraud protection. Any such potential penalties would be imposed on our credit card processor by the association. Under our contracts with our payment processors, we are required to reimburse them for such penalties. However, we face the risk that we may fail to maintain an adequate level of fraud protection and that one or more credit card associations or other processors may, at any time, assess penalties against us or terminate our ability to accept credit card payments or other form of online payments from customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, as we expand our presence in offline commerce through our GoDaddy Payments products and services, we face additional risks in payment processing due to merchant screening, hardware failures, hardware servicing and manufacturing costs, and risks associated with the interface of our hardware products with third-party mobile devices. 33 Table of Contents We could also incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to pay for our products if we fail to follow payment card industry data security standards, even if there is no compromise of the cardholder information covered by these standards. Although we believe we are in compliance with payment card industry data security standards and do not believe there has been a compromise of cardholder information, it is possible that at times either we or any of our acquired companies may not have been in full compliance with these standards. Accordingly, we could be fined, which could impact our financial condition, or certain of our products could be suspended, which would cause us to be unable to process payments using credit cards. If we are unable to accept credit card payments, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, we could be liable if there is a breach of the payment information we store. Online commerce and communications depend on the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Additionally, with the expansion of our offline commercial offerings through GoDaddy Payments products and services, we face additional burdens in securing and transmitting payment information. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to authenticate and secure the transmission of confidential information, including cardholder information. However, we cannot ensure this technology will prevent breaches of the systems we use to protect cardholder information. Although we maintain network security insurance, we cannot be certain our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or insurance will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our partners also collect or possess information about our customers, and we may be subject to litigation or our reputation may be harmed if our partners fail to protect our customers' information or if they use it in a manner inconsistent with our policies and practices. Data breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues. Under our contracts with our processors, if there is unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, credit card information we store, we could be liable to the credit card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. Moreover, in the future we may explore accepting various forms of payment that may have higher fees and costs than our current payment methods. If our customers utilize alternative payment methods, our payment costs could increase and our operating results could be adversely impacted. Financial Risks Our quarterly and annual operating results may be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below investor or analyst expectations. Our quarterly and annual operating results and key metrics have varied from period to period in the past, and may fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; the timing and success of introductions of new products; changes in the growth rate of small businesses and ventures; changes in renewal rates for our subscriptions and our ability to sell additional products to existing customers; refunds to our customers could be higher than expected; the timing of revenue recognition relative to the recording of the related expense; any negative publicity or other actions which harm our brand; the timing of our marketing expenditures; the mix of products sold and our use of "freemium" promotions for those products; our ability to maintain a high level of personalized customer care and resulting customer satisfaction; competition in the market for our products; our ability to expand internationally; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards; our ability to implement new financial and other administrative systems; actual or perceived data security incidents; 34 Table of Contents systems, data center and Internet failures, breaches and service interruptions; actions by foreign governments that reduce access to the Internet for their citizens; changes in U.S. or foreign regulations, such as the CCPA and GDPR, that could impact one or more of our product offerings or changes to regulatory bodies, such as ICANN, as well as increased regulation by governments or multi-governmental organizations, such as the International Telecommunications Union, a specialized agency of the United Nations or the E.U., that could affect our business and our industry; a delay in the authorization of new TLDs by ICANN or our ability to secure operator rights for new TLDs, both of which would impact the breadth of our customer offerings; any changes in industry rules restricting our ability to hold domains for sale on the aftermarket; shortcomings in, or misinterpretations of, our metrics and data which cause us to fail to anticipate or identify market trends; terminations of, disputes with, or material changes to our relationships with third-party partners, including referral sources, product partners and payment processors; reductions in the selling prices for our products; costs and integration issues associated with acquisitions we may make; changes in legislation affecting our collection of indirect taxes both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions; changes in legislation affecting exposure to liability resulting from actions of our customers increases in rates of failed sales on our aftermarket platform for transactions in which we act as the primary obligor, resulting in higher than expected domain portfolio assets; timing of expenses; macroeconomic conditions and the impact on the worldwide economy and our financial results as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic; threatened or actual litigation; and loss of key employees. Any one of the factors above, or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above, may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results, including fluctuations in our key financial and operating metrics, our ability to forecast those results and our ability to achieve those forecasts. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our revenue, bookings or operating results expectations or those of securities analysts or investors for any period. In addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue and bookings trends. Accordingly, in the event of revenue or bookings shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate with commensurate reductions in operating expenses in the short term, which could adversely impact our operating results. We may release guidance in our quarterly earnings conference calls, quarterly earnings releases, or otherwise, based on predictions by management, which are necessarily speculative in nature. Our guidance may vary materially from actual results for a variety of reasons, including that our cash generation may be uneven across quarters. If our revenue, bookings or operating results, or the rate of growth of our revenue, bookings or operating results, fall below the expectations of our investors or securities analysts, or below any forecasts or guidance we may provide to the market, or if the forecasts we provide to the market are below the expectations of analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Such a stock price decline could occur even when we have met our own or other publicly stated revenue, bookings or earnings forecasts. Our failure to meet our own or other publicly stated revenue, bookings or earnings forecasts, or even when we meet our own forecasts but fall short of securities analyst or investor expectations, could cause our stock price to decline and expose us to lawsuits, including securities class action suits. Such litigation could impose substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. 35 Table of Contents We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We had net income of $243 million in 2021, net loss of $494 million in 2020 and net income of $138 million in 2019. While we have experienced revenue growth over these same periods, we may not be able to sustain or increase our growth or maintain profitability in the future or on a consistent basis, including as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on customer demand for our products and our costs associated with modifying our operations, including moving all personnel to work remotely, in response. Customer demand for our products declined in the second quarter of 2021 and while it improved in the second half of 2021, there remains uncertainty about the levels of customer demand and growth going forward. We have incurred substantial expenses and expended significant resources to market, promote and sell our products. We also expect to continue to invest for future growth and to expand our product offerings. In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses as a public company. Furthermore, we have incurred in recent periods, and may incur in future periods, large expenses which are not recurring, but which nonetheless negatively impact our operating results. As a result of our increased expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenue to maintain future profitability. Maintaining profitability will require us to ensure revenues continue to increase while managing our cost structure and avoiding significant liabilities. Revenue growth may slow or decline, or we may incur significant losses in the future for any reason, including deteriorating general macroeconomic conditions, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of the markets in which we operate, or if we fail for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If these losses exceed our expectations or our revenue growth expectations are not met in future periods, our financial performance will be harmed and our stock price could be volatile or decline. In addition, because we have a substantial accumulated deficit, if we are unable to maintain profitability in future periods, we may be restricted under Delaware law in our ability to take certain corporate actions, including the payment of dividends or the repurchase of shares of our Class A common stock. We may need additional equity, debt or other financing in the future, which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms, or at all, and any additional financing may result in restrictions on our operations or substantial dilution to our stockholders. We may need to raise funds in the future, for example, to develop new technologies, expand our business, respond to competitive pressures, refinance our existing indebtedness and make acquisitions or other strategic arrangements. We may try to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships or other arrangements, or by refinancing our existing indebtedness. Our ability to obtain any financing will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance, investor interest and, in the case of debt financing, our debt levels, expected debt amortization, interest rates and our credit rating. Volatility in the credit markets, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic, may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain debt financing. Our credit rating may also be affected by our liquidity, financial results, economic risk or other factors, which may increase the cost of future financings. Any additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If financing is not available, we may be required to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies, forgoing acquisitions or reducing our product development efforts. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or equity-linked securities, then existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these new securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our Class A common stock. In addition, any such issuance could subject us to restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital, respond to competitive pressures and pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Further, to the extent we incur additional indebtedness or such other obligations, the risks associated with our substantial debt described elsewhere in this filing, including our possible inability to service our debt, would increase. Additionally, events and circumstances may occur that would cause us to not be able to satisfy applicable draw-down conditions and utilize our revolving line of credit. Although our credit agreements and the indenture governing our Senior Notes limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and may be amended with the consent of the requisite lenders or holders, as applicable. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, the amount of additional indebtedness that we may incur may be substantial. 36 Table of Contents Because we are generally required to recognize revenue for our products over the term of the applicable agreement, changes in our sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. As described in Note 2 to our audited financial statements, we generally recognize revenue from our customers ratably over the respective terms of their subscriptions in accordance with GAAP. Our subscription terms average one year, but can range from monthly terms to multi-annual terms of up to 10 years depending on the product. Accordingly, increases in sales during a particular period do not translate into immediate, proportional increases in revenue during such period, and a substantial portion of the revenue we recognize during a quarter is derived from deferred revenue from customer subscriptions we entered into during previous quarters. As a result, our margins may suffer despite substantial sales activity during a particular period, since GAAP does not permit us to recognize all of the revenue from our sales immediately. Conversely, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter may not be reflected in our revenue for that quarter and the existence of substantial deferred revenue may prevent deteriorating sales activity from becoming immediately observable in our statements of operations. In addition, we may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall, and any significant shortfall relative to planned expenditures could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Unanticipated changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities will be subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets (DTAs) or liabilities (DTLs) and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. While we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible these positions may be contested or overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our global provision for income taxes. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the laws are issued or applied. Many countries in the E.U., as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the valuation of our DTAs and DTLs; expected timing and amount of the release of any tax valuation allowances; tax effects of equity-based compensation; costs related to intercompany restructurings; changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof; or future earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory tax rates. In addition, we may be subject to audits of our income, sales and other transaction taxes by federal and state and foreign tax authorities. Outcomes from these audits could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our only material asset is our economic interest in Desert Newco, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Desert Newco to pay our expenses, taxes and dividends (if and when declared by our board of directors). As a result of this structure, our ability to pay taxes and expenses may be limited. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our controlling equity interest in Desert Newco through our direct or indirect ownership of its limited liability company units (LLC Units). We have no independent means of generating revenue or operating cash flows and, as such, we rely on Desert Newco to provide us with funds necessary to meet any financial obligations. Desert Newco is treated as a partnership for U.S. income tax purposes and, as such, is generally not subject to income tax in most jurisdictions. Instead, Desert Newco's taxable income or loss is passed through to its members, including us. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our allocable share of any net taxable income of Desert Newco. In addition to tax expenses, we also incur expenses related to our operations. 37 Table of Contents We have caused, and intend to continue to cause, Desert Newco to make distributions to us, as its managing member, in an amount sufficient to cover all expenses, applicable taxes payable and dividends, if any, declared by our board of directors. To the extent we need funds and Desert Newco is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under any present or future debt covenants or otherwise unable to provide such funds, and we do not have sufficient funds to pay tax or other liabilities or to fund our operations, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under the certain agreements, we will not be reimbursed for any payments made to our pre-IPO owners in the event any related tax benefits are later disallowed, or if sufficient profitability to utilize the related tax savings is not achieved. We entered into certain Tax Receivable Agreements (TRAs) with our pre-IPO owners. Subsequently, we entered into settlement and release agreements with respect to these TRAs (TRA Settlement Agreements), pursuant to which we settled all liabilities under the TRAs in exchange for aggregate payments totaling $850.0 million. If the IRS challenges the tax basis or net operating losses (NOLs) giving rise to payments under the TRAs, and the tax basis or NOLs are subsequently disallowed, the recipients of payments under those agreements will not reimburse us for any payments previously made to them under the TRA Settlement Agreements. Additionally, if we are unable to achieve sufficient profitability in future periods, we will be unable to fully utilize the anticipated tax savings. Any such disallowance of estimated future tax reductions or failure to achieve anticipated tax savings could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and limit our ability to invest further in our business, including our ability to pursue future acquisition opportunities and share repurchases. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business and our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, as well as divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments and prevent us from meeting our debt obligations. Our substantial indebtedness, including our credit facility, the Senior Notes due in 2027 and the Senior Notes due in 2029, collectively the Senior Notes, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, including: requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and pursue future business opportunities; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness, whether fixed or floating rate interest, to be higher than they would be otherwise; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates; creating a risk of foreclosure if we default on our indebtedness and are unable to pay any accelerated obligations; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in a default accelerating our obligations to repay indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions and/or redeeming or repurchasing shares of our capital stock; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities our leverage prevents us from exploiting. We may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness and entry into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and we may amend such agreements with the consent of the requisite parties thereto. In addition, these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring certain obligations, such as trade payables. 38 Table of Contents The agreements governing our indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and making payments on our indebtedness. The agreements governing our indebtedness, including our credit facility and the Senior Notes, impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit the ability of our subsidiaries, and effectively place restrictions on our ability to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified equity interests; pay dividends and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain junior debt; make certain investments; incur certain liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge, consolidate or make certain other fundamental changes; enter into agreements restricting the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make certain intercompany dividends, distributions, payments or transfers; and transfer or sell assets. In addition, our credit facility requires us to comply with specified leverage ratios under certain circumstances. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control, and these provisions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise conduct our business. As a result of the restrictions described above, we may be limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the applicable lenders or holders or amend the covenants. Our failure to comply with these restrictive covenants as well as other terms of our indebtedness or the terms of any future indebtedness could result in a default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to service our indebtedness and, in particular, repay such indebtedness at maturity will depend on our cash flow from operations and our compliance with the agreements governing our indebtedness. Economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may have an adverse effect on our future operating performance and cash flows, which could adversely affect our ability to service our indebtedness and repay such indebtedness at maturity. If we do not generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness and repay such indebtedness at maturity, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the credit or capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could result in higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. Global economic conditions have in the past resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. As such, it may be difficult to find other sources of capital if needed. The terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness or any such future agreements we may enter into may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to access additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and may be subject to legal or contractual restrictions limiting their ability to make distributions to us, which could negatively affect our ability to service our indebtedness and repay such indebtedness at maturity. For example, our restricted subsidiaries may be able to incur encumbrances containing restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us. In the event we do not receive sufficient cash from our subsidiaries, we will be unable to make required payments on our indebtedness. In addition, if we repatriate funds from our 39 Table of Contents international subsidiaries to service our indebtedness, we may be subject to a higher effective tax rate, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the event of a default under our credit facility, Senior Notes or any future agreements governing our indebtedness and our failure to obtain a waiver of such default, our lenders or holders could exercise their right to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which could have a negative impact on our ability to operate our business. In addition, the lenders under our credit facility could also elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings, and we may, as a result, seek protection under the U.S. bankruptcy code. We may be required to repurchase some of the Senior Notes upon a change of control triggering event. Holders of the Senior Notes can require us to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control. Our ability to repurchase the Senior Notes may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the Senior Notes or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms, if at all. A change of control may also constitute a default under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our other then-existing indebtedness, including our credit facility. Our failure to repurchase the Senior Notes would result in a default under the Senior Notes, which may result in the acceleration of the Senior Notes and other then-existing indebtedness, including our credit facility. We may not have sufficient funds to make any payments triggered by such acceleration, which could result in foreclosure proceedings and our seeking protection under the U.S. bankruptcy code. Legal and Regulatory Risks Governmental and regulatory policies or claims concerning the domain name registration system and the Internet in general, and industry reactions to those policies or claims, may cause instability in the industry and disrupt our business. ICANN is a multi-stakeholder, private sector, not-for-profit corporation formed in 1998 for the express purposes of overseeing a number of Internet related tasks, including managing the DNS allocation of IP addresses, accreditation of domain name registrars and registries and the definition and coordination of policy development for all of these functions. We are accredited by ICANN as a domain name registrar and thus our ability to offer domain name registration products is subject to our ongoing relationship with, and accreditation by, ICANN. ICANN has been subject to strict scrutiny by the public and governments around the world, as well as multi-governmental organizations such as the United Nations, with many of those bodies becoming increasingly interested in Internet governance. If ICANN is not seen as adequately responsive to stakeholder concerns, governments around the world may decide to implement regulatory frameworks independent of ICANN, leading to a fragmentation of the domain name registration system, which could negatively affect our operations and financial results. Additionally, we continue to face the following possibilities: the new structure and accountability mechanisms contained in ICANN's bylaws, amended in November 2019, are not fully tested, which may result in ICANN not being accountable to its stakeholders and unable to make, implement or enforce its policies; the Internet community, key commercial industry participants, the U.S. government or other governments may (i) refuse to recognize ICANN's authority or support its policies, (ii) attempt to exert pressure on ICANN, or (iii) enact laws in conflict with ICANN's policies, each of which could create instability in the domain name registration system; governments, via ICANN's Governmental Advisory Committee (GAC), may seek greater influence over ICANN policies and contracts with registrars and may advocate changes that may adversely affect our business; the terms of the Registrar Accreditation Agreement (RAA) under which we are accredited as a registrar or the Registry Agreement (RA) under which we are accredited as a registry, could change in ways that are disadvantageous to us or under certain circumstances could be terminated by ICANN, thereby preventing us from operating our registrar or registry service, or ICANN could adopt unilateral changes to the RAA or RA that are unfavorable to us, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that affect our competitive position; international regulatory or governing bodies, such as the International Telecommunications Union, a specialized agency of the United Nations, or the EU, may gain increased influence over the management and regulation of the domain name registration system, leading to increased regulation in areas such as taxation, privacy and the monitoring of our customers' hosted content; 40 Table of Contents ICANN or any third-party registries may implement policy changes impacting our ability to run our current business practices throughout the various stages of the lifecycle of a domain name; the U.S. Congress or other legislative bodies in the U.S. could take action unfavorable to us or influencing customers to move their business from our products to those located outside the U.S.; U.S. Congress or other legislative bodies in the U.S. could adopt regulations that are in direct conflict with other jurisdictions (e.g., the E.U.), which could fragment our platform and product offerings; the U.S. Congress or other legislative bodies in the U.S. or in other countries could adopt laws that erode the safe harbors from third-party liability in the CDA (Section 230) and DMCA; ICANN could fail to maintain its role, potentially resulting in instability in DNS services administration and operation; our recent acquisition of several registry businesses, resulting in the vertically integrated operation of a registrar and registry, could lead to increased regulatory scrutiny; governments and governmental authorities may impose requirements for, or prohibit, the registration of domain names containing certain words or phrases; some governments and governmental authorities outside the U.S. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of ICANN and registries relating to the DNS, which could fragment the single, unitary Internet into a loosely-connected group of one or more networks, each with different rules, policies and operating protocols; and multi-party review panels established by ICANN's new bylaws may take positions unfavorable to our business. If any of these events occur, they could create instability in the domain name registration system and may make it difficult for us to continue to offer existing products and introduce new products, or serve customers in certain international markets. These events could also disrupt or suspend portions of our domain name registration product and subject us to additional restrictions on how the registrar and registry products businesses are conducted, which would result in reduced revenue. In addition, the requirements of the privacy laws around the world, including the GDPR and laws within the U.S., are known to be in conflict with ICANN's policies and contracts related to how registrars collect, transmit and publish the personal information of domain name registrants in publicly accessible WHOIS directories. Although ICANN implemented a temporary policy to alleviate some of these conflicts, we are working with ICANN and our industry counterparts to reconcile these conflicts. If ICANN is unable or unwilling to harmonize these policies and contracts with applicable privacy laws, our efforts to comply with applicable laws may cause us to violate our existing ICANN contractual obligations. As a result, we could experience difficulties in selling domain names and keeping our existing customer domain names under management if we are unable to reach an amicable contractual solution with ICANN, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and revenue. ICANN periodically authorizes the introduction of new TLDs. A delay in access to new TLDs could adversely impact our business, results of operations and our reputation. ICANN has periodically authorized the introduction of new TLDs and made domain names related to them available for registration. In 2012, ICANN significantly expanded the number of gTLDs through the first application round of Expansion Program. This resulted in the delegation of new gTLDs in 2014. However, since 2014, ICANN has neither opened the second application round nor provided an indication of when such round will be open. Our competitive position depends in part on our ability to gain access to these new TLDs. A significant portion of our business relies on our ability to sell domain name registrations to our customers, and any limitations on our access to newly created TLDs could adversely impact our ability to sell domain name registrations to customers, and thus could adversely impact our business. Furthermore, our acquisition of Neustar Inc.'s registry business in 2020, and our entry into the registry business, means GoDaddy Registry is also impacted by delays of future gTLD application rounds. Although we expect to continue to sell and pursue operator rights for new gTLDs as they are introduced, our ability to obtain these rights, gain contracts to provide backend registry services, or sell new domains to our customers, we may be unable to do so if the Expansion Program does not continue. In addition, if a new application round of the Expansion Program is not opened in the future, the reputation of the industry and our business and the financial and operational aspects of our business may be harmed. 41 Table of Contents The relevant domain name registry and ICANN impose a charge upon each registrar for the administration of each domain name registration. If these fees increase, it would have a significant impact upon our operating results. Each registry typically imposes a fee in association with the registration of each domain name. For example, VeriSign, the registry for .com and .net, has a current list price of $8.39 annually for each .com registration, and ICANN currently charges $0.18 annually for most domain names registered in the gTLDs falling within its purview. In 2016, VeriSign and ICANN agreed that VeriSign will continue to be the exclusive registry for the .com gTLD through November 2024. In 2018, Verisign and the U.S. Department of Commerce agreed to extend their Cooperative Agreement through 2024. As part of that extension, Verisign has the right to raise .com wholesale prices up to 7% (per registration year) each year starting in November 2020, subject to ICANN's approval. In March 2020, VeriSign and ICANN amended the .com registry agreement to allow fees to be increased to no more than $10.26 annually for each .com registration. In February 2022, Verisign announced that it will increase the annual registry-level wholesale fee for new and renewal .com domain name registrations to $8.97, effective September 1, 2022. If fees continue to increase, costs to our customers could be higher, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We have no control over ICANN, VeriSign or other domain name registries and cannot predict their future fee structures. While we do not currently do so, we have the discretion to impose service fees on our customers in the future. In addition, pricing of new gTLDs is generally not set or controlled by ICANN, which in certain instances has resulted in aggressive price increases on certain particularly successful new gTLDs. The increase in these fees with respect to any new gTLD either must be included in the prices we charge to our customers, imposed as a surcharge or absorbed by us. If we absorb such cost increases or if surcharges result in decreases in domain registrations, our business, operating results and financial performance may be adversely affected. We are subject to privacy and data protection laws and regulations as well as contractual privacy and data protection obligations. Our failure to comply with these or any future laws, regulations or obligations could subject us to sanctions and damages and could harm our reputation and business. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including regulation by various federal government agencies, including the FTC, FCC and state and local agencies. We collect personal information, including payment card information, and other data from our current and prospective customers, website users and employees. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on, or requirements regarding, the collection, distribution, use, security and storage of personal information or other data of individuals, including payment card information, and the FTC and many state attorneys general are applying federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards on the online collection, use and dissemination of data. Self-regulatory obligations, other industry standards, policies and other legal obligations may apply to our collection, distribution, use, security or storage of personal information or other data relating to individuals, including payment card information. These obligations may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with one another, other regulatory requirements or our internal practices. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with U.S., E.U. or other foreign privacy or security laws, policies, industry standards or legal obligations or any security incident resulting in the unauthorized access to, or acquisition, release or transfer of, personal information or other data relating to our customers, employees and others, including payment card information, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties or adverse publicity and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. 42 Table of Contents We expect there will continue to be newly enacted and proposed laws and regulations as well as emerging industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the U.S., the E.U. and other jurisdictions, and we cannot yet determine the impact such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our business. Such laws, regulations, standards and other obligations could impair our ability to, or the manner in which we, collect or use information to target advertising to our customers, thereby having a negative impact on our ability to maintain and grow our total customers and increase revenue. For example, California enacted the California Consumer Protection Act (CCPA) that, among other things, requires covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers and afford such consumers new rights, including the right to opt-out of certain sales of personal information or opt-into certain financial incentive programs. On November 4, 2020, the CPRA, was passed by California voters replacing and amending several parts of the existing CCPA. The new Act will come into effect beginning January 1, 2023. To date, the requirements of CCPA and CPRA have not incurred significant cost or impact to our data processing practices. However, other states such as Colorado and Virginia have enacted or are considering similar legislation that may require us to modify our data processing practices for which the cost and impact are currently not predictable. Future restrictions on the collection, use, sharing or disclosure of our users' data or additional requirements for express or implied consent of users for the use, disclosure or other processing of such information could increase our operating expenses, require us to modify our products, possibly in a material manner, or stop offering certain products, and could limit our ability to develop and implement new product features. In particular, with regard to transfers to the U.S. of personal data (as such term is used in the GDPR and applicable E.U. member state legislation, and as similarly defined under the proposed ePrivacy Regulation) from our employees and European customers and users, we historically relied upon the U.S.-E.U. Privacy Shield, as well as E.U. Model Clauses in certain circumstances. The U.S.-E.U. Privacy Shield was invalidated by the Court of Justice of the E.U. in July 2020, and the E.U. Model Clauses have been subject to legal challenge and were recently updated in June 2021. We may be unsuccessful in maintaining legitimate means for our transfer and receipt of personal data from the European Economic Area (EEA). We continue to assess the "Schrems II" decision issued by the Court of Justice of the E.U. on July 16, 2020, and its impact on our data transfer mechanisms. We may, in addition to other impacts, experience additional costs associated with increased compliance burdens, and we and our customers face the potential for regulators in the EEA to apply different standards to the transfer of personal data from the EEA to the U.S., and to block, or require ad hoc verification of measures taken with respect to, certain data flows from the EEA to the U.S. We also may be required to engage in new contract negotiations with third parties that aid in processing data on our behalf. We may experience reluctance or refusal by current or prospective European customers to use our products, and we may find it necessary or desirable to make further changes to our handling of personal data of EEA residents. The regulatory environment applicable to the handling of EEA residents' personal data, and our actions taken in response, may cause us to assume additional liabilities or incur additional costs and could result in our business, operating results and financial condition being harmed. Additionally, we and our customers may face a risk of enforcement actions by data protection authorities in the EEA relating to personal data transfers to us and by us from the EEA. Any such enforcement actions could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, distract management and technical personnel and negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, several foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the E.U., Brazil, and Canada, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of their residents' personal information, including payment card information, which are often more restrictive than those in the U.S. laws. Regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of personal information, including payment card information identifying, or which may be used to identify, an individual, such as names, email addresses and, in some jurisdictions, Internet Protocol (IP) addresses, device identifiers and other data. Although we believe we comply with those laws and regulations applicable to us, these and other obligations may be modified and interpreted in different ways by courts, and new laws and regulations may be enacted in the future. Within the EEA, the GDPR took full effect on May 25, 2018, becoming directly applicable across E.U. member states. The GDPR includes stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, for companies established in the EEA and those outside the EEA that collect and use personal data (including payment card information) imposes significant penalties for non-compliance and has broader extra-territorial effect. As the GDPR is a regulation rather than a directive, it applies throughout the EEA, but permits member states to enact certain supplemental requirements if they so choose. Noncompliance with the GDPR can trigger fines of up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of global annual revenues. The UK exited the E.U. effective January 31, 2020, which has created uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection in the UK. In June 2021, the European Commission adopted an adequacy decision for data transfers from the E.U. to the UK. Nevertheless, this adequacy decision may be revisited and it remains to be seen how the UK's withdrawal from the E.U. will impact the manner in which UK data protection laws or regulations will develop and how data transfers to and from the UK will be regulated and enforced by the UK Information Commissioner's Office, E.U. data protection authorities, or other regulatory bodies in the longer term. In addition, some countries are considering or have enacted legislation requiring local storage and processing of data that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services. 43 Table of Contents Any new laws, regulations, other legal obligations or industry standards, or any changed interpretation of existing laws, regulations or other standards may require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. For example, many jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving certain types of personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach, or any other disclosures we may choose to undertake, could result in an increased risk of litigation and/or negative publicity to us, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures which could impact our operating results. In addition, we are required under the GDPR to respond to customers' SARs and under the CCPA to similar customer requests, each within a certain time period, which entails determining what personal data is being processed, the purpose of any such data processing, to whom such personal data has been disclosed (and in the case of the CCPA, sold) and whether personal data is being disclosed for the purpose of making automated decisions relating to that customer. We may dedicate significant resources to responding to our customers' SARs, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. In addition, a failure to respond to SARs properly could result in fines, negative publicity and damage to our business. If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply with current or future laws, regulations, policies, legal obligations or industry standards, or are perceived to have done so, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations such as the FTC investigation discussed above, fines or other liabilities, as well as negative publicity and a potential loss of business. Moreover, if future laws, regulations, other legal obligations or industry standards, or any changed interpretations of the foregoing, limit our customers' ability to use and share personal information, including payment card information, or our ability to store, process and share such personal information or other data, demand for our products could decrease, our costs could increase and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Activities of customers or the content of their websites could damage our reputation and brand or harm our business and financial results. As a provider of domain name registration, hosting and presence products, we may be subject to potential liability and negative publicity for our customers' activities on or in connection with their domain names, their websites or for the data they store on our servers. In addition, as we expand our social media management and professional web services, we may be subject to potential liability for content we create on behalf of our customers. Although our terms of service prohibit the illegal use of our products by our customers and permit us to take down or suspend websites or take other appropriate actions in response to illegal uses, customers may nonetheless engage in prohibited activities or upload or store content on our products in violation of applicable law or the customer's own policies, which could subject us to liability. Furthermore, our reputation and brand may be negatively impacted by customer actions and website content that are deemed hostile, offensive or inappropriate. We do not proactively monitor or review the appropriateness of the domain names our customers register or the content of their websites, and we do not have control over customer activities. The safeguards we have in place may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our reputation and brand, especially if such hostile, offensive or inappropriate customer content is high profile or misinterpreted as content supported by us. Several U.S. federal statutes may apply to us with respect to various activities of our customers, including: The Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act (ACPA) , provides recourse for trademark owners against cybersquatters. Under the safe harbor provisions of the ACPA, domain name registrars are shielded from liability in many circumstances, including cybersquatting, although the safe harbor provisions may not apply if our activities are deemed outside the scope of registrar functions. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) , provides recourse for owners of copyrighted material whose rights under U.S. copyright law have been infringed on the Internet. For example, the safe harbor provisions of the DMCA shield Internet service providers and other intermediaries from direct or indirect liability for copyright infringement. However, under the DMCA, we must follow the procedures for handling copyright infringement claims set forth in the DMCA, including expeditiously removing or disabling access to the allegedly infringing material upon the receipt of a proper notice from, or on behalf of, a copyright owner alleging infringement of copyrighted material located on websites we host. The Communication Decency Act (CDA) , generally protects Internet service providers that do not own or control website content posted by customers from liability for certain activities of customers through regulation of Internet content unrelated to intellectual property. Under the CDA, we are generally not responsible for the customer-created content hosted on our servers and thus are generally immunized from liability for torts arising from, for example, the posting of defamatory or obscene content. As we increasingly create content for our customers, we may not be able to rely on such safe harbors and we may be held liable for such content under the DMCA and the CDA. 44 Table of Contents Notwithstanding the exculpatory language of these bodies of law, the activities of our customers have resulted in, and may in the future result in, threatened or actual litigation against us. Although the ACPA, DMCA, CDA and relevant U.S. case law have generally shielded us from liability for customer activities to date, court rulings in pending or future litigation or future regulatory or legislative amendments may narrow the scope of protection afforded us under these laws. Additionally, neither the DMCA nor the CDA generally apply to claims of trademark violations, and thus they may be inapplicable to many of the claims asserted against our company. Furthermore, there have been, and continue to be, various Congressional and executive efforts to remove or restrict the scope of the protections available under Section 230 of the CDA, which if successful could decrease our current protections from liability for third-party content and increased litigation costs. In addition, other bodies of law, including state criminal laws, may be deemed to apply or new statutes or regulations may be adopted in the future, any of which could expose us to further liability and increase our costs of doing business. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business and operating results. For example, the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act (SESTA) and the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act (FOSTA) may limit the immunity previously available to us under the CDA, which could subject us to investigations or penalties if our customers' activities are deemed illegal or inappropriate. Our business depends on our customers' continued and unimpeded access to the Internet and the development and maintenance of Internet infrastructure. Internet access providers may be able to block, degrade or charge for access to certain of our products, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of customers. Our products depend on the ability of our customers to access the Internet. Currently, this access is provided by companies having significant market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers can take measures including legal actions, that could degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support our offerings, charging increased fees to our users to provide our offerings, or regulating online speech. In some jurisdictions, such as China, our products and services may be subject to government-initiated restrictions, fees or blockages. Such interference could result in a loss of existing users, advertisers and goodwill or increased costs, or could impair our ability to attract new users, thereby harming our revenue and growth. Moreover, the adoption of any laws or regulations adversely affecting the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including laws impacting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our products and increase our operating costs. The legislative and regulatory landscape regarding the regulation of the Internet and, in particular, Internet neutrality, in the U.S. is subject to uncertainty. To the extent any laws, regulations or rulings permit Internet service providers to charge some users higher rates than others for the delivery of their content, Internet service providers could attempt to use such law, regulation or ruling to impose higher fees or deliver our content with less speed, reliability or otherwise on a non-neutral basis as compared to other market participants, and our business could be adversely impacted. Internationally, government regulation concerning the Internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be developing or non-existent. Within such a regulatory environment, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices impeding both our and our customers' domestic and international growth, increasing our costs or adversely affecting our business. Additional changes in the legislative and regulatory landscape regarding Internet neutrality, or otherwise regarding the regulation of the Internet, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, that are expensive and time consuming and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to intellectual property claims, we are also involved in other types of litigation and claims, including claims relating to commercial disputes, consumer protection and employment, such as harassment. For example, we have faced or continue to face claims related to the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Arizona Consumer Fraud Act (and similar federal, state and international consumer protection statutes, including the Brazil Consumer Protection Code). In particular, we recently settled three class action complaints alleging violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. Plaintiffs in such current and future litigation matters often file such lawsuits on behalf of a putative or certified class and typically claim substantial statutory damages and attorneys' fees, and often seek changes to our products, features or business practices. As a result, although the results of any such current or future litigation, regardless of the underlying nature of the claims, cannot be predicted with certainty, the final outcome of any current or future claims or lawsuits we face could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any negative outcome from claims or litigation, including settlements, could result in payments of substantial monetary damages or fines, attorneys' fees or 45 Table of Contents costly and significant and undesirable changes to our products, features, marketing efforts or business practices. As we expand our international operations, we have experienced an increase in litigation occurring outside of the U.S., due in part to consumer-friendly laws and regulations in certain countries and legal systems with limited experience with claims related to the domain industry. Defending such litigation is costly and time consuming. The final outcome of such litigation may not be the same as similar litigation in the U.S., which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, claims or litigation brought against our customers or business partners may subject us to indemnification obligations or obligations to refund fees to, and adversely affect our relationships with, our customers or business partners. Such indemnification or refund obligations or litigation judgments or settlements that result in the payment of substantial monetary damages, fines and attorneys' fees may not be sufficiently covered by our insurance policies if at all. In addition, during the course of any litigation, regardless of its nature, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, preliminary rulings or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our Class A common stock. Regardless of whether any claims against us have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend, and can impose a significant burden on management and employees. Further, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential business or other proprietary information could be compromised by disclosure. Failure to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could substantially harm our business and operating results. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to protect and enforce our patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. We attempt to protect our intellectual property under patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, and through a combination of confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other methods, all of which offer only limited protection. As of December 31, 2021, we had 314 issued patents in the U.S. covering various aspects of our product offerings. Additionally, as of December 31, 2021, we had 124 pending U.S. patent applications and intend to file additional patent applications in the future. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. We may choose not to seek patent protection for certain innovations or not to pursue patent protection in certain jurisdictions, and may choose to abandon patents that are no longer of strategic value to us, in each case even if those innovations have financial value to us. In addition, under the laws of certain jurisdictions, patents or other intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in scope. Furthermore, it is possible that our patent applications may not issue as granted patents, that the scope of our issued patents will be insufficient or not have the coverage originally sought, that our issued patents will not provide us with any competitive advantages, and that our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. In addition, issuance of a patent does not assure that we have an absolute right to practice the patented invention, or that we have the right to exclude others from practicing the claimed invention. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or to enforce our issued patents effectively. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology and confidential proprietary information, including trade secrets and know-how. Despite our efforts to protect the proprietary and confidential nature of such technology and information, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use them. The contractual provisions in confidentiality agreements and other agreements we generally enter into with employees, consultants, partners, vendors and customers may not prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, products and intellectual property rights is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the U.S. and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. We may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use or infringement of our products, technologies or intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2021, we had 660 registered trademarks in countries including the UK, U.S., China and Germany; we have also filed a trademark application for the new GoDaddy logo and mark and a word mark application for Open We Stand. We have also registered, or applied to register, the trademarks associated with several of our leading brands in the U.S. and in certain other countries, including for our new logo launched in January 2020, the "Go." Competitors and others may have 46 Table of Contents adopted, and in the future may adopt, tag lines or service or product names similar to ours, which could impede our ability to build our brands' identities and possibly lead to confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered and common law trademarks or trademarks incorporating variations of the terms or designs of one or more of our trademarks and opposition filings made when we apply to register our trademarks. From time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, distract management and technical personnel and negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage. Any inability on our part to protect adequately our intellectual property may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are involved in intellectual property claims and litigation asserted by third parties, and may be subject to additional claims and litigation in the future, which could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and results of operations. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the U.S. and abroad involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies providing web-based and cloud-based products are increasingly bringing, and becoming subject to, suits alleging infringement of proprietary rights, particularly patent rights. The possibility of intellectual property infringement claims also may increase to the extent we face increasing competition and become increasingly visible. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights. In addition, our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may increase as a result of acquisitions we make or our use of software licensed from or hosted by third parties, as we have less visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired or licensed technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition or license. Many companies are devoting significant resources to obtaining patents that could affect many aspects of our business. This may prevent us from deterring patent infringement claims, and our competitors and others may now and in the future have larger and more mature patent portfolios than we have. We have faced in the past, are currently facing, and expect to face in the future, claims and litigation by third parties that we infringe upon or misappropriate their intellectual property rights. Defending patent and other intellectual property claims and litigation is costly and can impose a significant burden on management and employees, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. In addition, plaintiffs may seek, and we may become subject to, preliminary or provisional rulings in the course of any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease offering certain of our products or features. We may decide to settle such lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. Similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. The terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease offering certain of our products or features or pay substantial amounts to the other party. In addition, we may have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third party's rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or discontinue offering certain products or features. The development of alternative non-infringing technology, products or features could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by intellectual property claims or litigation. We may face liability or become involved in disputes over registration and transfer of domain names and control over websites. As a provider of web-based and cloud-based products, including as a registrar of domain names and related products, we may become aware of disputes over ownership or control of customer accounts, websites or domain names. We could face potential liability for our failure to renew a customer's domain. We could also face potential liability for our role in the wrongful transfer of control or ownership of accounts, websites or domain names. The safeguards and procedures we have adopted may not be successful in insulating us against liability from such claims in the future. Moreover, any future amendment to Section 230 of the CDA may increase our liability and could expose us to civil or criminal liability for the actions of our customers, if we do not effectively detect and mitigate these risks. In addition, we may face potential liability for other forms of account, website or domain name hijacking, including misappropriation by third parties of our customer accounts, websites or domain names and attempts by third parties to operate accounts, websites or domain names or to extort the customer whose accounts, websites or 47 Table of Contents domain names were misappropriated. Furthermore, we are exposed to potential liability as a result of our domain privacy product, wherein the identity and contact details for the domain name registrant are masked. Although our terms of service reserve our right to take certain steps when domain name disputes arise related to our privacy product, including the removal of our privacy service, the safeguards we have in place may not be sufficient to avoid liability, which could increase our costs of doing business. Occasionally one of our customers may register a domain name identical, or similar, to a third party's trademark or the name of a living person. These occurrences have in the past and may in the future lead to our involvement in disputes over such domain names. Disputes involving registration or control of domain names are often resolved through the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy (UDRP), ICANN's administrative process for domain name dispute resolution, or less frequently through litigation under the ACPA, or under general theories of trademark infringement or dilution. The UDRP generally does not impose liability on registrars, and the ACPA provides that registrars may not be held liable for registration or maintenance of a domain name absent a showing of the registrar's bad faith intent to profit from the trademark at issue. However, we may face liability if we act in bad faith or fail to comply in a timely manner with procedural requirements under these rules, including forfeiture of domain names in connection with UDRP actions. In addition, domain name registration disputes and compliance with the procedures under the ACPA and UDRP typically require at least limited involvement by us and, therefore, increase our cost of doing business. The volume of domain name registration disputes may increase in the future as the overall number of registered domain names increases. Moreover, as the owner or acquiror of domain name portfolios containing domains we provide for resale, we may face liability if one or more domain names in our portfolios, or our resellers' portfolios, are alleged to violate another party's trademark. Although we screen the domain names we acquire to mitigate the risk of third-party infringement claims, we, or our resellers, may inadvertently register or acquire domains that infringe or allegedly infringe third-party rights. If intellectual property laws diverge internationally or are interpreted inconsistently by local courts, we may be required to devote additional time and resources to enhancing our screening program in international markets. For example, we are involved in a large number of claims in India involving the registration of domain names that include trademarked strings of text. While these claims are individually and collectively immaterial, they may require additional time and resources to resolve, and as we expand internationally, we face additional intellectual property claims. Moreover, advertisements displayed on websites associated with domains registered by us may contain allegedly infringing content placed by third parties. We may face liability and increased costs as a result of such third-party infringement claims. Our use of open source technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We use open source software in our business, including in our products. It is possible that some open source software is governed by licenses containing requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in certain manners. Although we monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, we cannot be certain all open source software is reviewed prior to use in our proprietary software, that programmers working for us have not incorporated open source software into our proprietary software, or that they will not do so in the future. Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or to make it available under an open source license could be harmful to our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts. As a result, there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such an event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make our proprietary code generally available in source code form, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 48 Table of Contents Data localization requirements in certain jurisdictions in which we operate may increase data center and company operating costs. In some jurisdictions in which we operate, such as India, Russia and China, laws and regulations may require us to locally host at least an instance of the data collected in that jurisdiction and in some cases may apply restrictions to the export or transfer of that data across borders. Such data localization laws and regulations may increase our overall data center operating costs by requiring duplicative local facilities, network infrastructure and personnel, and by potentially increasing the resources required to process governmental requests for access to that data. This may also increase our exposure to government requests for censorship and to data breaches in general. We continue to explore strategies to limit such risks related to data collected in those jurisdictions, but cannot guarantee that our efforts will be successful. Our business could be affected by new governmental regulations regarding the Internet. To date, government regulations have not materially restricted use of the Internet in most parts of the world. However, the legal and regulatory environment relating to the Internet is uncertain, and governments may impose regulation in the future. New laws may be passed, courts may issue decisions affecting the Internet, existing but previously inapplicable or unenforced laws may be deemed to apply to the Internet or regulatory agencies may begin to more rigorously enforce such formerly unenforced laws, or existing legal safe harbors may be narrowed, both by U.S. federal or state governments and by governments of foreign jurisdictions. The adoption of any new laws or regulations, or the narrowing of any safe harbors, could hinder growth in the use of the Internet and online services generally, and decrease acceptance of the Internet and online services as a means of communications, e-commerce and advertising. In addition, such changes in laws could increase our costs of doing business or prevent us from delivering our services over the Internet or in specific jurisdictions, which could harm our business and our results of operations. We are subject to certain export controls, including economic and trade sanctions regulations that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws. Our business activities are subject to various restrictions under U.S. export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws, including the U.S. Commerce Department's Export Administration Regulations and economic and trade sanctions regulations maintained by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties and reputational harm. U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions laws also prohibit certain transactions with U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities. We employ country-specific IP blocks in comprehensively sanctioned jurisdictions, customer screening, and other measures designed to ensure regulatory compliance. When we screen customers against such sanctions lists, we rely on the data provided to us by our customers; if customers do not provide complete or accurate data, our screening process may fail to identify customers who are denied parties. As such, there is risk that in the future we could provide our products to denied parties despite such precautions. Changes in the list of sanctioned jurisdictions and OFAC and other sanctions lists may require us to modify these measures in order to comply with governmental regulations. Our failure to screen customers properly could result in negative consequences to us, including government investigations, penalties and reputational harm. Any change in export or import regulations, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products or decreased ability to sell our products to existing or potential customers. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to sell our products internationally could adversely affect our growth prospects. If we are found to be in violation of the export controls laws and regulations or economic sanctions laws and regulations, penalties may be imposed against us and our employees, including loss of export privileges and monetary penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could also be materially and adversely affected through penalties, reputational harm, loss of access to certain markets, or otherwise if we are found to have violated these laws and regulations. 49 Table of Contents Due to the global nature of our business, we could be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. We face significant risks if we fail to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (FCPA), the UK Bribery Act 2010 (UK Bribery Act), the U.S. Travel Act of 1961 and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws prohibiting companies and their employees and third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to foreign government officials, political parties and private-sector recipients for an illegal purpose. We operate in areas of the world in which corruption by government officials exists to some degree and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We operate in several countries and sell our products to customers around the world, which results in varied and potentially conflicting compliance obligations. In addition, changes in laws could result in increased regulatory requirements and compliance costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we are committed to complying with, and we provide training to help our employees comply with, all applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, we cannot assure that our employees or other agents will not engage in prohibited conduct and render us responsible under the FCPA or the UK Bribery Act. If we are found to be in violation of the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act or other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws (either due to acts or inadvertence of our employees, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption or anti-bribery laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions and, in the case of the FCPA, suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracts, which could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and growth prospects. In addition, responding to any enforcement action may result in a diversion of management's attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees. Changes in taxation laws and regulations may discourage the registration or renewal of domain names for e-commerce. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that any U.S. or foreign federal, state or local taxing authority might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy transaction, income or other taxes relating to our activities. Tax authorities at the international, federal, state and local levels are regularly reviewing the appropriate treatment of companies engaged in e-commerce. New or revised international, federal, state or local tax regulations may subject either us or our customers to additional sales, income and other taxes. In particular, after the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling in South Dakota v. Wayfair , U.S. states may require an online retailer with no in-state property or personnel to collect and remit sales tax on sales to such states' residents. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on e-commerce. New or revised taxes, in particular sales and other transaction taxes, would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of advertising and selling goods and services over the Internet. New taxes could also create significant increases in internal costs necessary to capture data and to collect and remit taxes. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our payments business, including GoDaddy Payments, is subject to various laws, regulations, restrictions and risks. Our failure to comply with such rules, regulations, and restrictions regarding our payments business could materially harm our business. We are subject, and may become subject, to various restrictions with respect to our payments products and services, including under U.S. federal, U.S. state and international laws and regulations, as well as restrictions set forth in agreements we have with payment card networks and third party payment service providers. Payments Regulations . The processing and acceptance of a variety of payment methods is subject to various laws, rules, regulations, legal interpretations, and regulatory guidance, including those governing (i) cross-border and domestic money transmission and funds transfers, (ii) foreign exchange, (iii) payment services, and (iv) consumer protection. If we or our GoDaddy Payments business were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to additional operating requirements and/or civil and criminal penalties or forced to cease providing certain services. 50 Table of Contents Payment Card Networks . We partner with payment card networks including Visa, MasterCard and American Express to conduct our payment processing. These payment card networks have adopted rules and regulations that apply to all merchants who accept their payment cards including special operating rules that apply to GoDaddy Payments as a "payment facilitator" providing payment processing services to our Go Daddy Payments' customers. The payment card networks have established separate network rules that apply to us. Each payment card network has discretion to interpret its own network operating rules and may make changes to such rules at any time. Changes to such rules could include increasing the cost of, imposing restrictions on, or otherwise impacting the development of, our GoDaddy Payments' retail point-of-sale solutions, which may negatively affect their deployment and adoption and could ultimately harm our business. In addition, these payment card networks may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction that accesses their networks, and may impose special fees or assessments on any transactions that access their networks. Our payment networks have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to us, which could increase our costs and thereby adversely affect our financial performance. We may also be subject to fines assessed by the payment card networks resulting from any rule violations by us or our GoDaddy Payments' customer. For instance, we could be subject to penalties from payment card networks if we fail to detect that our GoDaddy Payments' customers are engaging in activities that are illegal, contrary to the payment card network operating rules, or considered "high risk." Any such penalties could become material and could result in termination of our ability to accept payment cards or could require changes in our process for registering new GoDaddy Payments' customers. Any such penalties or fines could materially and adversely affect our business. Third Party Payment Service Providers . We have agreements in place with companies that process credit and debit card transactions on our and GoDaddy Payments' behalf. These agreements allow these payment processors, under certain conditions, to hold an amount of our, or in the case of GoDaddy Payments its customers' cash (referred to as a "holdback") or require us to otherwise post security equal to a portion of bookings that have been processed by that company. These payment processors may be entitled to a holdback or suspension of processing services upon the occurrence of specified events, including material adverse changes in our financial condition. An imposition of a holdback or suspension of payment processing services by one or more of our payment processors could materially reduce our liquidity. Further, the software and services provided by payment processors may fail to meet our expectations, contain errors or vulnerabilities, be compromised, or experience outages. Any of these risks could cause us to lose our ability to process payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Owning our Class A Common Stock Our business could be negatively impacted by shareholder activism. In recent years, shareholder activists have become involved in numerous public companies. Shareholder activists frequently propose to involve themselves in the governance, strategic direction and operations of companies. Shareholder activists have also become increasingly concerned with companies' efforts with respect to environmental, sustainability and governance standards. Responding to actions by activist shareholders, such as requests for special meetings, potential nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors, requests to pursue a strategic combination or other transaction, or other special requests may disrupt our business and divert the attention of management and employees. In addition, any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction resulting from such a situation could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, all of which could negatively impact our business. Shareholder activism could result in substantial costs. In addition, actions of activist shareholders may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals of our business. Our share price may be volatile, and you may be unable to sell your shares. The trading price of our Class A common stock is likely to be highly volatile and these fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Since shares of our Class A common stock were sold in our initial public offering (IPO) in April 2015 at a price of $20.00 per share, the reported high and low sales prices of our Class A common stock have ranged from $21.04 to $93.75 per share through February 11, 2022. Factors that may cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate include: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general, and of companies in our industry; 51 Table of Contents actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations or fluctuations in our operating results; whether our operating results meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our company, changes in financial estimates or ratings by any securities analysts who follow our company or our failure to meet the estimates or the expectations of investors; announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors; actual or anticipated developments in our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally; actual or perceived privacy or data security incidents; litigation involving us, our industry or both; regulatory developments in the U.S., foreign countries or both; general economic conditions and trends; the commencement or termination of any share repurchase program; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; network or service outages, Internet disruptions, the availability of our service, security breaches or perceived security breaches and vulnerabilities; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; actions instituted by activist shareholders or others; major catastrophic events, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, outbreaks of pandemic diseases, such as COVID-19, or responses to these events; sales of large blocks of our stock; or departures of key personnel. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our Class A common stock might also decline in reaction to events affecting other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation, which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Provisions of our charter, bylaws and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide for, among other things: a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; the ability of our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could have the effect of impeding the success of an attempt to acquire us or otherwise effect a change in control; advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at stockholder meetings; certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings; and amendment of certain provisions only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds in voting power of all outstanding shares of our stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class. 52 Table of Contents In addition, although we have opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL), our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a provision that provides us with protections similar to Section 203 of the DGCL, and prevents us from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with an interested stockholder (i.e., a person or group who acquires at least 15% of our voting stock) for a period of three years from the date such person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company that is in the best interest of our stockholders. On December 12, 2021, we announced that, in connection with its governance review and with input from our stockholders through our annual engagement process, the board of directors intends to recommend to our stockholders at our 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders certain amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, including a previously announced plan to eliminate our board of directors' classified structure, as well as the elimination of the supermajority threshold required for stockholders to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws and the elimination of any exceptions or special rules to Section 203 of the DGCL. However, we can provide no assurance that our stockholders will approve such amendments at our 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Our bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial form for disputes with us. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of or based on a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our current or former directors, officers, employees, or stockholders arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, or our amended and restated bylaws, or (iv) any other action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine shall be the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware), in all cases subject to the court having jurisdiction over indispensable parties named as defendants. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that the U.S. federal district courts will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act). This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees and may discourage these types of lawsuits. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions. We do not intend to pay dividends on our Class A common stock. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock and we do not expect to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends on our Class A common stock is limited by our existing indebtedness, and may be further restricted by the terms of any future debt incurred or preferred securities issued by us or our subsidiaries or by law. As a result, any capital appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock may be your only source of gain on your investment in our Class A common stock. If, however, we decide to pay a dividend in the future, we would need to cause Desert Newco to make distributions to the company in an amount sufficient to cover such dividend. Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of Desert Newco for any reason could limit or impair its ability to make distributions to us. We cannot guarantee we will make any additional repurchases of our Class A common stock. In the past, our board of directors has approved the repurchase of shares of our Class A common stock. In January 2022, our board of directors approved the repurchase of up to an additional $2,251.0 million of our Class A common stock. Such approval was in addition to the amount remaining available for repurchases under prior approvals of our board of directors, such that we have authority to repurchase up to $3,000.0 million of shares of our Class A common stock. Under this or any other future share repurchase programs, we may make share repurchases through a variety of methods, including open market share purchases, accelerated share repurchase programs, block transactions or privately negotiated transactions, in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. Future share repurchase programs may have no time limit, may not obligate us to repurchase any specific 53 Table of Contents number of shares and may be suspended at any time at our discretion and without prior notice. The timing and amount of any repurchases, if any, will be subject to liquidity, stock price, market and economic conditions, compliance with applicable legal requirements such as Delaware surplus and solvency tests and other relevant factors. Any failure to repurchase stock after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us and may negatively impact our stock price. The existence of these share repurchase programs could cause our stock price to be higher than it otherwise would and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Although these programs are intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, there is no assurance they will do so because the market price of our Class A common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of Class A common stock and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the effectiveness of the programs. Other Risks The COVID-19 pandemic has had a material adverse impact on many of our customers and could harm our business and operating results. The impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and on our business continue to evolve. To protect the health and well-being of our employees, partners and third-party service providers, we implemented a near company-wide work-from-home requirement for most employees, made substantial modifications to employee travel policies, and cancelled or shifted our conferences and other marketing events to virtual-only. In late 2021, based on guidance from governmental authorities and health experts, we reopened certain offices and allowed employees to return to work on a voluntary basis. We expect to reopen other offices in 2022. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have helped our employees adapt to the work from home environment through technology assistance and continued learning opportunities. Our employees remain highly productive. We expect to maintain and continue to improve our productivity and efficiency through the remote only work environment, and the hybrid in-person and remote work environment as our offices open. However, we cannot predict how our employees or business will be impacted by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and our ability to continue product development, marketing efforts, high-level customer service and account management with our customers, and how other aspects of our business could be impacted in the future. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted, and may continue to disrupt, the operations of our customers as a result of business shutdowns, decreased demand from their customers, travel restrictions, loss of employment and uncertainty in the financial markets, all of which have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, our business and operating results by reducing customer spending on our products and services, in particular for our higher-priced, do-it-for-you services. For example, in June 2020 we restructured our U.S. outbound sales and operations as a result of soft customer demand for higher-priced, do-it-for-you services such as GoDaddy Social, and reduced effectiveness of our U.S. outbound calling process. As global economic conditions recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, business activity may not recover as quickly as anticipated. Conditions will be subject to the effectiveness of government policies, vaccine administration rates and other factors that may not be foreseeable. The COVID-19 pandemic has also increased our vulnerability to consumer privacy, data security and fraud risks as a result of our personnel working remotely, which may require us to invest in risk mitigation efforts that may not be successful. It is not possible at this time to estimate the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, as the impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Economic conditions in the U.S. and international economies may adversely impact our business and operating results. General macro-economic conditions, such as a rise in interest rates, inflation in the cost of goods and services including labor, a recession or an economic slowdown in the U.S. or internationally, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, could adversely affect demand for our products and make it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Spending patterns of small businesses and independent ventures, which make up a substantial portion of our customer base, are difficult to predict and are sensitive to the general economic climate, the economic outlook specific to small businesses and ventures, the then-current level of profitability experienced by these groups and overall consumer confidence. As a result of general macro-economic conditions, our customers may not be able to afford to renew existing products or buy additional products, or they may turn to lower-cost offerings from our competitors. Our higher-priced services and aftermarket offerings have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as customers become more price-conscious. 54 Table of Contents In addition, our customers may be affected by changes in trade policies, treaties, government regulations and tariffs. Trade protection measures, retaliatory actions, tariffs and increased barriers, policies favoring domestic industries, or increased import or export licensing requirements or restrictions could have a negative effect on the overall macro economy and our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. To the extent conditions in the domestic and global economy change, our business could be harmed as current and potential customers may reduce or postpone spending or choose not to purchase or renew subscriptions to our products which they may consider discretionary. For example, it is possible that business activity in the UK or the E.U. will be negatively affected by Brexit. If our customers face decreased consumer demand, increased regulatory burdens or more limited access to international markets, we may face a decline in the demand for our products and our operating results could be adversely impacted. Uncertain and adverse economic conditions may also lead to a decline in the ability of our customers to use or access credit, including through credit cards, as well as increased refunds and chargebacks, any of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, changing economic conditions may also adversely affect third parties with which we have entered into relationships and upon which we depend in order to grow our business. As a result, we may be unable to continue to grow in the event of future economic slowdowns. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act) and the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). We expect the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources. Management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal control. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to audit such internal control. Although our management has determined, and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2021, we cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, we could be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits or other adverse actions requiring us to incur defense costs, pay fines, settlements or judgments, thereby causing investor perceptions to be adversely affected and potentially resulting in restatement of our financial statements for prior periods and a decline in the market price of our stock. In addition, our current internal controls and any new controls we implement may become inadequate because of changes in conditions in our business or information technology systems or changes in the applicable laws, regulations and standards. We have also recently acquired, and may acquire in future, companies that were not previously subject to Sarbanes-Oxley Act regulations and accordingly were not required to establish and maintain an internal control infrastructure compliant with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any failure to design or operate effective controls, any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, or any failure to implement adequate internal controls for our acquired companies could (i) harm our operating results, (ii) cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations (iii) adversely affect the results of management evaluations and independent registered public accounting firm audits of our internal control over financial reporting, about which we are required to include in our periodic reports filed with the SEC, or (iv) cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, any of which could have a negative effect on our stock. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the NYSE in the future. 55 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made events such as terrorism and civil unrest. Our continued growth depends on the ability of our customers to access our products, services and customer support at any time and within an acceptable amount of time. In addition, our ability to access certain third-party solutions is important to our operations and the delivery of our products, services and customer support. Although we have disaster recovery plans in place, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood or acts of terrorism, civil unrest, pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or other similar events beyond our control could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our infrastructure vendors, data center hosting providers, partners or customers, our infrastructure vendors' abilities to provide connectivity and perform services on a timely basis or the economy as a whole. In the event our or our service providers' IT systems' abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, we and our customers' websites could experience downtime, and our products could become unavailable. A prolonged service disruption for any of the foregoing reasons would negatively impact our ability to serve our customers and could damage our reputation with current and potential customers, expose us to liability, cause us to lose customers or otherwise harm our business. We may also incur significant costs for using alternative equipment or taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, events that damage the services we use. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties. Our corporate headquarters, which we lease, are located in Tempe, Arizona. We own our offices in Hiawatha, Iowa, which consist of approximately 75,000 square feet used primarily for customer care and product development. We lease additional customer care centers and offices located throughout the U.S. as well as internationally, most significantly in Bulgaria, Germany, Romania, Serbia and the UK. We provide our cloud-based products via a network of data centers including (i) an approximately 320,000 square foot data center we own and operate in Phoenix, Arizona; (ii) co-location data centers located throughout the U.S., most significantly in Virginia; and (iii) co-location international data centers, most significantly in France, the Netherlands and Singapore. Our data center leases expire on various dates through 2033. We believe our existing facilities are sufficient for our current needs. Although we have recently closed or consolidated certain of our facilities, in the future, we may need to add new facilities or expand our existing facilities to meet our evolving business needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The information required by this item is provided in Note 12 to our financial statements and is incorporated herein by reference. We are currently involved in, and may in the future be involved in, legal proceedings, claims, regulatory inquiries, audits, and governmental investigations incidental to our business (Proceedings), including patent infringement litigation and trademark infringement claims, as well as putative class actions, employment, commercial and consumer protection claims and other Proceedings. Although the results of any such current or future Proceedings, regardless of the underlying nature of the claims or facts, cannot be predicted with certainty, the final outcome of any current or future Proceedings we face could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regardless of the final outcome, defending lawsuits, claims and other Proceedings in which we are involved is costly and can impose a significant burden on management and employees. We may receive unfavorable preliminary or interim rulings in the course of such Proceedings, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 56 Table of Contents Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our Class A common stock trades on the NYSE under the symbol "GDDY". Stock Performance Graph The following performance graph and related information shall not be deemed to be "soliciting material" or "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any filing of GoDaddy Inc. under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference in such filing. The following graph compares, for the five year period ending December 31, 2021, the cumulative total return to stockholders on our Class A common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index (S&P 500) and the NASDAQ Internet Index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in our Class A common stock and in each index. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance. See the disclosures in Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Holders of Record As of December 31, 2021, there were 8 holders of record of our Class A common stock, although we believe there are a significantly larger number of beneficial owners because many shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders. Dividend Policy We have not paid any dividends on our Class A common stock and do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. If, however, we decide to pay a dividend in the future, we would need to cause Desert Newco to make distributions to us in an amount sufficient to cover such dividend. If Desert Newco makes such distributions to us, the other holders of LLC Units will be entitled to receive pro rata distributions. 57 Table of Contents Our ability to pay dividends is limited by the covenants of our long-term debt agreements. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources." In addition, Desert Newco is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to unit holders (including us) to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of Desert Newco (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets. Desert Newco's subsidiaries are generally subject to similar legal limitations on their ability to make distributions to Desert Newco. Share Repurchases Our board of directors has authorized the share repurchase programs described in Note 5 to our financial statements. There were no share repurchases during the three months ended December 31, 2021. Item 6. [Reserved] Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our financial statements and related notes included in "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis, including information with respect to our plans and strategies for our business, includes forward-looking statements involving significant risks and uncertainties. As a result of many factors, such as those set forth in "Risk Factors," actual results may differ materially from the results described in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. This section generally discusses 2021 and 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020. Discussion of 2019 items and comparisons between 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. (Throughout the tables and this discussion and analysis, dollars are in millions, excluding average revenue per user (ARPU), and shares are in thousands.) COVID-19 Pandemic We have implemented a variety of measures to attempt to minimize the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business, to ensure the availability and functioning of our critical infrastructure and to promote the safety and security of our employees. These measures have included remote working arrangements for nearly all of our workforce since March 2020 and safety protocols for any on-site personnel in accordance with federal, state and local regulations. In late 2021, we reopened certain offices and allowed employees to return to such offices on a voluntary basis. We expect to do this for other offices and employees in 2022. Incremental costs of these remote working arrangements have not been material, though such arrangements have increased the risk of cybersecurity incidents as individuals have been working through less secure network connections. While the pandemic has not had a material impact on our results of operations so far, the extent to which it may impact our future results and operations will depend on future developments, including: (i) the duration of the pandemic; (ii) the widespread distribution and long-term efficacy of vaccines and the availability of effective treatments; (iii) the duration and parameters of global governmental measures put in place to control the spread of the virus; and (iv) the continuing economic impact of the pandemic. We are actively monitoring the pandemic and the potential impacts it may have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the future. See "Risk Factors" for additional information. Overview We serve several customer populations: Independents, Partners, Domain Registrars and Investors, other Registrars and Corporate Domain Portfolio owners. While these customer populations tend to utilize many of the same GoDaddy product offerings, we consider the meaningful differences in their journeys, what they value, their ultimate goals and how they communicate with the rest of the world and aim to provide, and establish, solutions that address these differences. We are the global market leader in domain registration. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 89% of our customers had purchased a domain from us and we had 84.4 million domains under management. Based on information reported in VeriSign's Domain Name Industry Brief, we had over 23% of the world's domains registered as of September 30, 2021. 58 Table of Contents We also offer hosting, presence and business applications products and services (products) enhancing our value proposition by enabling our customers to create, manage and syndicate their, or their customers', digital identities. These products are often purchased in conjunction with, or subsequent to, an initial domain registration. As we have grown, these products have become increasingly important parts of our business, constituting approximately 53% of total revenue in 2021. Financial Highlights Below are key financial highlights for 2021, with comparisons to 2020. Total revenue of $3,815.7 million, an increase of 15.0%, or approximately 14.4% on a constant currency basis (1) . International revenue of $1,270.8 million, an increase of 15.0%, or approximately 13.2% on a constant currency basis (1) . Total bookings (2) of $4,231.7 million, an increase of 12.1%, or approximately 11.2% on a constant currency basis (1) . Operating income of $382.1 million, an increase of 40.4%. Net cash provided by operating activities of $829.3 million, an increase of 8.5%. (1) Discussion of constant currency is set forth in "