ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations, and beliefs, involving risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. You should review the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of forward-looking statements and in Item 1A, Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. (Grid Dynamics, GDH, the Company, we, us, or our) is a fast-growing company focused on enterprise-level digital transformations in Fortune 1000 companies. For enterprises that create innovative digital products and experiences, Grid Dynamics offers close collaboration to provide digital transformation initiatives that span strategy consulting, development of early prototypes and enterprise-scale delivery of new digital platforms. Since its inception in 2006 in Menlo Park, California, as a grid and cloud consultancy firm, Grid Dynamics has been on the forefront of digital 33 Table of Contents transformation, working on big ideas like cloud computing, NOSQL, DevOps, microservices, big data and AI, and quickly established itself as a provider of choice for technology and digital enterprise companies. As a leading global digital engineering and IT services provider with its headquarters in Silicon Valley and engineering centers in the United States, Mexico and multiple European countries, Grid Dynamics core business is to deliver focused and complex technical consulting, software design, development, testing and internet service operations. Grid Dynamics also helps organizations become more agile and create innovative digital products and experiences through its deep expertise in emerging technology, such as AI, data science, cloud computing, big data and DevOps, lean software development practices and a high-performance product culture. Grid Dynamics believes that the key to its success is a business culture that puts products over projects, client success over contract terms and real business results over pure technical innovation. By leveraging Grid Dynamics proprietary processes optimized for innovation, emphasis on talent development and technical expertise, Grid Dynamics has been able to achieve significant growth. We are a former blank check company that completed our initial public offering on October 4, 2018. In March 2020, Grid Dynamics, formerly known as ChaSerg Technology Acquisition Corp (ChaSerg), completed its acquisition of Grid Dynamics International, Inc. (GDI) pursuant to the business combination agreement dated November 13, 2019 (the Business Combination). In conjunction with the completion of the Business Combination, ChaSerg was renamed as Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. The Business Combination was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization for which GDI was determined to be the accounting acquirer. Outstanding shares of GDI were converted into our common shares, presented as a recapitalization, and the net assets of ChaSerg were acquired at historical cost, with no goodwill or other intangible assets recorded. Business Update Regarding Military Action in Ukraine On February 24, 2022, Russian forces launched significant military action against Ukraine, and sustained conflict and disruption in the region is possible. The impact to Ukraine as well as actions taken by other countries, including new and stricter sanctions imposed by Canada, the United Kingdom, the European Union, the U.S. and other countries and companies and organizations against officials, individuals, regions, and industries in Russia and Ukraine, and each countrys potential response to such sanctions, tensions, and military actions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. For example, in response to increased sanctions, Russia could attempt to take control of assets in Russia or Ukraine of companies registered in the United States, such as Grid Dynamics. Any such material adverse effect from the conflict and enhanced sanctions activity may disrupt our delivery of services, impair our ability to complete financial or banking transactions, cause us to shift all or portions of our work occurring in the region to other countries, and may restrict our ability to engage in certain projects in the region or involving certain customers in the region. We have a significant number of personnel in Ukraine and Russia. We are actively monitoring the security of our personnel and the stability of our infrastructure, including communications and internet availability. We are also executing our business continuity plan and adapting to developments as they occur to protect the safety of our people and handle potential impacts to our delivery infrastructure, including reallocating work to other geographies within our global footprint. We are actively working with our personnel and with our customers to meet their needs and to mitigate delivery challenges. We have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the situation, as the conflict and government reactions are rapidly developing and beyond our control. Prolonged unrest, military activities, or broad-based sanctions, should they be implemented, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business outlook. We have accelerated hiring in locations outside of the region as part of our business continuity planning and in order to support client demand. In addition, we have implemented plans to move some of our existing personnel to other countries in order to keep them safe and mitigate impacts on our delivery of services to our customers. The information contained in this section is accurate as of the date hereof, but may become outdated due to changing circumstances beyond our present awareness or control. For additional information on the various risks posed by the military action in Ukraine and the impact in the region, please read Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 34 Table of Contents Fiscal Year Highlights The following table sets forth a summary of Grid Dynamics financial results for the annual periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 % of revenue % of revenue % of revenue (dollars in thousands, except per share data) Revenues $ 211,280 100.0 % $ 111,283 100.0 % $ 118,326 100.0 % Gross profit 87,728 41.5 % 41,621 37.4 % 48,236 40.8 % Income/(loss) from operations 50 % (15,448) (13.9) % 15,625 13.2 % Net income/(loss) (7,700) (3.6) % (12,599) (11.3) % 10,807 9.1 % Diluted EPS $ (0.13) n/a $ (0.28) n/a 0.49 n/a Non-GAAP Financial Information Adjusted EBITDA (1) 39,077 18.5 % 12,549 11.3 % 23,661 20.0 % Non-GAAP Net Income (1) 24,160 11.4 % 7,013 6.3 % 15,487 13.1 % Non-GAAP Diluted EPS (1) 0.36 n/a 0.14 n/a 0.73 n/a __________________________ (1) Adjusted EBITDA, Non-GAAP Net Income and Non-GAAP Diluted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Measures below for additional information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2021 our revenues were $211.3 million, which included $44.9 million from our recent acquisitions of Daxx and Tacit. Organic revenue of $166.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2021 was up from $110.3 million in the same period of 2020. The key reasons for the organic year-over-year increase of 50.8% were increased demand for our services by our customers resulting in increased billable hours combined with revenue contribution from new customers. Our largest vertical, Technology Media & Telecom, continued to grow; in the twelve months ended December 31, 2021 it represented 32.0% of our full year of 2021 revenue and grew by 49.2% on a year-over-year basis. While many customers positively grew on the year-over-year basis, Grid Dynamics two largest TMT customers contributed meaningfully. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, our Retail vertical contributed $61.7 million in revenue, up from $34.0 million in revenue in the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. We have been witnessing a steady sequential pick up in business. Furthermore, within our Retail vertical, since the beginning of the pandemic, we have witnessed a shift towards retail customers who have embraced digital and online commerce. This is a contrast to some of our other customers who have not recovered from the impacts of the pandemic, and going forward, we expect that some of them will not recover to pre-COVID levels. We continue to focus on revenue diversification by increasing our customer base with additions. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, our organic and acquisitions combined received revenues from a total of 273 customers. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, our GAAP Net loss was $(7.7) million, or (3.6)% of revenue and Non-GAAP EBITDA was $39.1 million, or 18.5% of revenue. This was down from GAAP Net loss of $(12.6) million, or (11.3)% of revenue and and up from $12.5 million or 11.3% of revenue in Non-GAAP EBITDA in the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. The decrease in GAAP Net Loss and increase in non-GAAP EBITDA on a year-over-year basis was due to a combination of higher levels of revenue and gross profit. Acquisition of Tacit Knowledge Inc . On May 29, 2021, we acquired UK based Tacit in an all-cash transaction. Tacit is a global consultancy focused on digital commerce serving customers in the UK, North America, Continental Europe, and Asia. The company serves leading global brands across technology, CPG, financial, and retail markets. The company has approximately 180 employees with engineering centers situated in Moldova and Mexico. The acquisition is augmenting our service offerings and strengthening our competitive position within the market. Additionally, the acquisition is also enabling us to leverage near-shore capabilities with the companys presence in Mexico. 35 Table of Contents COVID-19 Related Updates In December 2019, a novel coronavirus COVID-19 was reported in China, and in March 2020, the World Health Organization declared it a pandemic. This contagious disease pandemic has continued to spread across the globe, including extensively within the U.S., and is impacting worldwide economic activity and financial markets, significantly increasing economic volatility and uncertainty. In response to this global pandemic, several local, state, and federal governments have been prompted to take unprecedented steps that include, but are not limited to, travel restrictions, closure of businesses, social distancing, and quarantines. Starting in March 2020, headwinds to our business from the pandemic were largely centered around our retail customers as many of them witnessed a slowdown in their sales. After witnessing a low point in the month of May 2020, our retail business has steadily improved as we have added new customers and have grown existing business across industry verticals. We are now facing challenges from COVID-19 such as employee retention and shortage of talent on the job market. We continue to take precautionary measures intended to minimize the risk of the virus to our employees, our customers, and the communities in which we operate that include suspension of all non-essential travel. Although a significant proportion of our employees continue to work remotely, all our facilities have been opened for employees to work following local government guidelines. We continue to deliver services to our customers in this fashion and this has resulted in minimal disruption in our operational and delivery capabilities. Comparability of Financial Information Grid Dynamics results of operations and statements of assets and liabilities may not be comparable between periods as a result of the Business Combination on March 5, 2020 and the other events and transactions discussed below. Key Performance Indicators and Other Factors Affecting Performance Grid Dynamics uses the following key performance indicators and assesses the following other factors to analyze its business performance, to make budgets and financial forecasts and to develop strategic plans: Employees by Region Attracting and retaining the right employees is critical to the success of Grid Dynamics business and is a key factor in Grid Dynamics ability to meet customers needs and grow its revenue base. Grid Dynamics revenue prospects and long-term success depend significantly on its ability to recruit and retain qualified IT professionals. A substantial majority of Grid Dynamics personnel is comprised of such IT professionals. The following table shows the number of Grid Dynamics personnel (including full-time and part-time employees and contractors serving in similar capacities) by region, as of the dates indicated: As of December 31, 2021 2020 2019 United States and Mexico 386 259 265 Central and Eastern Europe (1) , U.K. and the Netherlands 2,888 1,635 1,165 Total 3,274 1,894 1,430 __________________________ (1) Includes Ukraine, Russia, Poland, Serbia, and Moldova. Attrition There is competition for IT professionals in the regions in which Grid Dynamics operates, and any increase in such competition may adversely impact Grid Dynamics business and gross profit margins. Employee retention is one of Grid Dynamics main priorities and is a key driver of operational efficiency. Grid Dynamics seeks to retain top talent by providing the opportunity to work on exciting, cutting-edge projects for high profile clients, a flexible work environment and training and development programs. Grid Dynamics management targets a voluntary attrition rate no higher than the mid-teen percentages, in line with the industry. 36 Table of Contents Hours and Utilization As most of Grid Dynamics customer projects are performed and invoiced on a time and materials basis, Grid Dynamics management tracks and projects billable hours as an indicator of business volume and corresponding resource needs for IT professionals. To maintain its gross profit margins, Grid Dynamics must effectively utilize its IT professionals, which depends on its ability to integrate and train new personnel, to efficiently transition personnel from completed projects to new assignments, to forecast customer demand for services and to deploy personnel with appropriate skills and seniority to projects. Grid Dynamics management generally tracks utilization with respect to subsets of employees, by location or by project, and calculates the utilization rate for each subset by dividing (x) the aggregate number of billable hours for a period by (y) the aggregate number of total available hours for the same period. Grid Dynamics management analyzes and projects utilization to measure the efficiency of its workforce and to inform managements budget and personnel recruiting decisions. Customer Concentration Grid Dynamics ability to retain and expand its relationships with existing customers and add new customers are key indicators of its revenue potential. Excluding Daxx and Tacit, Grid Dynamics grew its customer base from 52 customers in 2020 to 65 customers in 2021. Grid Dynamics procurement of new customers has a direct impact on its ability to diversify its sources of revenue and replace customers that may no longer require its services. Grid Dynamics has a relatively high level of revenue concentration with certain customers. Of Grid Dynamics customers, two customers each accounted for 10% or more of Grid Dynamics revenue in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and three customers each accounted for 10% or more of Grid Dynamics revenue in the year ended December 31, 2019. The following table shows the evolution of Grid Dynamics customer base and revenue concentration, as of the dates and for the annual periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 (in thousands, except a number of customers and percentages) Total customers (for the period) (1) 273 182 40 Of which: >$5.0 million 9 7 7 >$2.5 - 5.0 million 5 3 3 >$1.0 - 2.5 million 20 7 5 Top five customers 43.9 % 55.9 % 66.5 % Top ten customers 60.4 % 78.4 % 86.7 % Top five customers $ 92,768 $ 62,152 $ 78,715 Top ten customers $ 127,564 $ 87,203 $ 102,646 __________________________ (1) Number of customers acquired as a result of Daxx and Tacit acquisitions for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 is 208 and 130, respectively. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Exposure Grid Dynamics is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk and its profit margins are subject to volatility between periods due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Grid Dynamics functional currency apart from the U.S. dollar includes EURO, British pounds, Mexican pesos and Moldovan leu. Grid Dynamics contracts with customers for payment in and generates predominantly all of its revenue in U.S. dollars, except for Daxx and Tacit that generate revenue predominantly in EURO and British pounds. Its non-U.S. subsidiaries operations relate substantially to performing services under those contracts. Several of Grid Dynamics subsidiaries conduct operations and employ or contract personnel in Russia, Ukraine, Poland and Serbia, but keep their books and records in U.S. dollars. Daxxs books are kept in EURO. Tacits books are kept in local currencies. Grid Dynamics foreign currency transaction exposure is a result of having to convert U.S. dollars into the local currencies of the countries in which it must pay expenses, typically by transferring funds to its non-U.S. subsidiaries. These expenses are primarily comprised of compensation and benefits and other operating costs, such as rent. Subsidiary transactions executed in local currencies are converted into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect on the date of the transaction, in the case of asset and liability transactions, or at the average monthly exchange rate, in the case of income and expense transactions. Certain balances in local currencies, particularly cash and financial instruments, are adjusted at each 37 Table of Contents balance sheet date to reflect the then-current exchange rate, which is the rate at which the related receivable or payable could be settled at that date. As a result, Grid Dynamics assets, liabilities, profit margins and other measures of profitability may be subject to volatility due to changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the currencies in which Grid Dynamics subsidiaries incur operating expenses, hold assets, or owe liabilities, and may not be comparable between periods. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, approximately 12.5%, 11.9%, and 6.4% of Grid Dynamics $211.2 million of combined cost of revenue and total operating expenses were denominated in the Ukrainian hryvnia, Russian rouble, and Polish zloty, respectively. Comparatively, for the year ended December 31, 2020 approximately 11.7%, 13.8% and 9.6% of of Grid Dynamics $126.7 million of combined cost of revenue and total operating expenses were denominated in the Ukrainian hryvnia, Russian rouble, and Polish zloty, respectively. Grid Dynamics does not currently hedge its foreign currency exposure, although it seeks to minimize such exposure by limiting cash transfers to amounts necessary to fund subsidiary operating expenses for a short period, typically one to two weeks. When and where possible, Grid Dynamics seeks to match expenses to the U.S. dollar. For example, in Ukraine, Grid Dynamics generally pays salaries in the current hryvnia equivalent of an agreed U.S. dollar amount, consistent with local requirements. As a result, a significant portion of Grid Dynamics exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Ukrainian hryvnia against the U.S. dollar is naturally hedged. Management carefully evaluates its exposure to foreign currency risk and, though Grid Dynamics does not currently hedge this exposure through the use of financial instruments, it may do so in the future. See Item 7A,