ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations, and beliefs, involving risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. You should review the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of forward-looking statements and in Item 1A, Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. (Grid Dynamics, GDH, the Company, we, us, or our) is an emerging leader in enterprise-level digital transformations in Fortune 1000 companies. For enterprises that create innovative digital products and experiences, Grid Dynamics offers close collaboration to provide digital transformation initiatives that span strategy consulting, development of early prototypes and enterprise-scale delivery of new digital platforms. Since its inception in 2006 in Menlo Park, California, as a grid and cloud consultancy firm, Grid Dynamics has been on the forefront of digital transformation, working on big ideas like cloud computing, NOSQL, DevOps, microservices, big data and AI, and quickly established itself as a provider of choice for technology and digital enterprise companies. 29 As a leading global digital engineering and IT services provider with its headquarters in Silicon Valley and engineering centers in the United States and multiple Central and Eastern European countries, Grid Dynamics core business is to deliver focused and complex technical consulting, software design, development, testing and internet service operations. Grid Dynamics also helps organizations become more agile and create innovative digital products and experiences through its deep expertise in emerging technology, such as AI, data science, cloud computing, big data and DevOps, lean software development practices and a high-performance product culture. Grid Dynamics believes that the key to its success is a business culture that puts products over projects, client success over contract terms and real business results over pure technical innovation. By leveraging Grid Dynamics proprietary processes optimized for innovation, emphasis on talent development and technical expertise, Grid Dynamics has been able to achieve significant growth. We are a former blank check company that completed our initial public offering on May 21, 2018. In March 2020, Grid Dynamics, formerly known as ChaSerg Technology Acquisition Corp (ChaSerg), completed its acquisition of Grid Dynamics International, Inc. (GDI) pursuant to the business combination agreement dated November 13, 2019 (the Business Combination). In conjunction with the completion of the Business Combination, ChaSerg was renamed as Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. The Business Combination was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization for which GDI was determined to be the accounting acquirer. Outstanding shares of GDI were converted into our common shares, presented as a recapitalization, and the net assets of ChaSerg were acquired at historical cost, with no goodwill or other intangible assets recorded. The following table sets forth a summary of Grid Dynamics financial results for the annual periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 % of revenue % of revenue % of revenue (dollars in thousands, except per share data) Revenues $ 111,283 100.0 % $ 118,326 100.0 % $ 91,865 100.0 % Gross profit 41,621 37.4 % 48,236 40.8 % 39,306 42.8 % Income/(loss) from operations (15,448 ) (13.9 )% 15,625 13.2 % 13,829 15.1 % Net income/(loss) (12,599 ) (11.3 )% 10,807 9.1 % 9,228 10.0 % Diluted EPS $ (0.28 ) n/a $ 0.49 n/a $ 0.46 n/a Non-GAAP Financial Information Adjusted EBITDA (1) 12,549 11.3 % 23,661 20.0 % 19,405 21.1 % Non-GAAP Net Income (1) 7,013 6.3 % 15,487 13.1 % 13,036 14.2 % Non-GAAP Diluted EPS (1) $ 0.14 n/a $ 0.73 n/a $ 0.64 n/a (1) Adjusted EBITDA, Non-GAAP Net Income and Non-GAAP Diluted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Measures below for additional information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. 30 Recent Developments In the three months ended December 31, 2020, our revenues were $30.1 million, which included $1.0 million in revenue contribution from our recent acquisition of Daxx Web Industries B.V. (Daxx) completed on December 14, 2020. Excluding the contribution from Daxx, in the three months ended December 31, 2020, our revenues of $29.1 million were up 11% in comparison to the three months ended September 30, 2020, and down 9% from the three months ended December 2019. Overall, in the three months ended December 31, 2020, we witnessed healthy business trends as reflected in the 11% sequential revenue growth over the three months ended September 30, 2020. The three months ended December 31, 2020 quarter marked the second consecutive sequential quarter of revenue growth since witnessing a bottom in revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2020. During the quarter, we witnessed healthy customer demand across our industry verticals as digital transformation initiatives continue to be a priority with our customers. Furthermore, the ongoing global pandemic has been a catalyst for companies to seek or accelerate enterprise-level digital initiatives that include, but are not limited to, maintaining remote workforces, selling products online, and creating continued efficiencies in business processes. During the three months ended December 31, 2020, excluding Daxx, our largest industry vertical was Technology, Media, and Telecom (TMT) at 37% of our revenue, while Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG)/Manufacturing, Finance, and Other verticals contributed 21%, 10%, and 5% of our revenue, respectively. We closed the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 with $111.3 million in revenue, which included $1.0 million contributed by our recent acquisition of Daxx. Excluding the contribution from Daxx, revenue of $110.3 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 was down from $118.3 million in the twelve months ended December 31, 2019. The key reason for the year-over-year decline of 7% was disruptions caused to our Retail vertical which was negatively impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Additionally, 2020 marked a significant shift in our largest industry vertical. Unlike previous years, where our largest vertical was Retail, in the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, our largest vertical was Technology Media & Telecom. At 41% of our full year of 2020 revenue, the TMT vertical grew by 40% on a year-over-year basis. While many customers positively contributed to the year-over-year growth, Grid Dynamics two largest customers in 2020 (both in the TMT vertical) were the main contributors. We anticipate the TMT vertical will continue to be our largest revenue contributing vertical in 2021. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, excluding the contribution from Daxx, our Retail vertical contributed $34.0 million in revenue, down from $67.4 million in revenue in the twelve months ended December 31, 2019. In spite of the year-over-year decline of approximately 50%, in the second half of 2020, we have been witnessing a steady sequential pick up in business. For many of our retail customers, the COVID-19 pandemic caused significant business disruption that included closure of stores resulting in sales being severely impacted. Furthermore, within our Retail vertical, since the beginning of the pandemic, we have witnessed a shift towards retail customers who have embraced digital and online commerce. This is a contrast to some of our other customers who have not recovered from the impacts of the pandemic, and going forward, we expect that some of them will not recover to pre-COVID levels. We continue to focus on revenue diversification by increasing our customer base with new logo additions. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, our core Grid Dynamics business received revenues from a total of 52 customers and added 16 new logos. Additionally, in the three months ended December 31, 2020 our core Grid Dynamics business exited the quarter with 43 paying customers, up from 40 paying customers in the three months ended December 31, 2019. Furthermore, during the three months ended December 31, 2020, our core Grid Dynamics business added five new logos across industry verticals that included Finance and TMT. We closed the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 with GAAP Net loss of $(12.6) million and $12.5 million, or 11.3% of revenue in Adjusted EBITDA, down from GAAP Net income of $10.8 million and $23.7 million or 20% of revenue in Adjusted EBITDA in the twelve months ended December 31, 2019. The year-over-year decline was largely driven by a combination of factors that included lower levels of revenue, increased general and administrative expenses associated with operating as a publicly traded company, and increased headcount and personnel costs. Acquisition of Daxx Web Industries B.V. On December 14, 2020, we acquired Netherland based Daxx Web Industries B.V. (Daxx) in an all-cash transaction. Headquartered in Amsterdam, and with approximately 490 employees, the company has engineering centers situated in major tech hubs across Ukraine. Daxx has over 20 years of experience in delivering software services to clients across a wide range of industry verticals that include high-tech, digital media, healthcare, and education. Some of its key capabilities of Daxx include consulting services spanning agile process reengineering, lean development, and DevOps. Daxx serves customers in the Netherlands, Germany, U.K., and the U.S., and has strong relationships with high-growth start-ups and established software companies. We believe the acquisition of Daxx will enable us to have a stronger foothold in Europe and will enable the company to continue diversifying our business. In the three months ended December 31, 2020, Daxx contributed $1.0 million in revenue. 31 COVID-19 Related Updates In December 2019, a novel coronavirus COVID-19 was reported in China, and in March 2020, the World Health Organization declared it a pandemic. This contagious disease pandemic has continued to spread across the globe, including extensively within the U.S., and is impacting worldwide economic activity and financial markets, significantly increasing economic volatility and uncertainty. In response to this global pandemic, several local, state, and federal governments have been prompted to take unprecedented steps that include, but are not limited to, travel restrictions, closure of businesses, social distancing, and quarantines. Starting in March 2020, headwinds to our business from the pandemic were largely centered around our retail customers as many of them witnessed a slowdown in their sales. After witnessing a low point in the month of May 2020, our retail business has steadily improved as our retail customers resumed their operations although we expect that some of our customers will not recover to pre-COVID levels. We continue to take precautionary measures intended to minimize the risk of the virus to our employees, our customers, and the communities in which we operate that include suspension of all non-essential travel. Although a significant proportion of our employees continue to work remotely, all our facilities in the Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) region have been opened for employees to work following local government guidelines. We continue to deliver services to our customers in this fashion and this has resulted in minimal disruption in our operational and delivery capabilities. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, we have taken an allowance of $0.4 million doubtful accounts due to risks posed by the COVID-19 pandemic on our customers ability to make payments. We continue to be engaged with all our customers regarding their ability to fulfill their payment obligations. In the course of the three months ended December 31, 2020, we received payments from multiple customers, including some of the higher risk retail customers. Additionally, most of our customers who sought extended payment terms as the pandemic unfolded have reverted back to their historical levels of payment terms. We continue to review our accounts receivable on a regular basis and have put in place processes to ensure payments from our customers. Comparability of Financial Information Grid Dynamics results of operations and statements of assets and liabilities may not be comparable between periods as a result of the Business Combination on March 5, 2020 and the other events and transactions discussed below. Key Performance Indicators and Other Factors Affecting Performance Grid Dynamics uses the following key performance indicators and assesses the following other factors to analyze its business performance, to make budgets and financial forecasts and to develop strategic plans: Employees by Region Attracting and retaining the right employees is critical to the success of Grid Dynamics business and is a key factor in Grid Dynamics ability to meet customers needs and grow its revenue base. Grid Dynamics revenue prospects and long-term success depend significantly on its ability to recruit and retain qualified IT professionals. A substantial majority of Grid Dynamics personnel is comprised of such IT professionals. The following table shows the number of Grid Dynamics personnel (including full-time and part-time employees and contractors serving in similar capacities) by region, as of the dates indicated: As of December 31, 2020 2019 2018 United States 259 265 218 Central and Eastern Europe (1) 1,143 1,165 926 Total (2) 1,402 1,430 1,144 (1) Includes Russia, Ukraine, Poland and Serbia. (2) Excluding personnel of Daxx. As of December 31, 2020, there were 492 Daxx personnel including full-time and part-time employees and contractors serving in similar capacities located in Ukraine and the Netherlands. 32 Attrition There is competition for IT professionals in the regions in which Grid Dynamics operates, and any increase in such competition may adversely impact Grid Dynamics business and gross profit margins. Employee retention is one of Grid Dynamics main priorities and is a key driver of operational efficiency. Grid Dynamics seeks to retain top talent by providing the opportunity to work on exciting, cutting-edge projects for high profile clients, a flexible work environment and training and development programs. Grid Dynamics management targets a voluntary attrition rate no higher than the mid-teen percentages, in line with the industry. Hours and Utilization As most of Grid Dynamics customer projects are performed and invoiced on a time and materials basis, Grid Dynamics management tracks and projects billable hours as an indicator of business volume and corresponding resource needs for IT professionals. To maintain its gross profit margins, Grid Dynamics must effectively utilize its IT professionals, which depends on its ability to integrate and train new personnel, to efficiently transition personnel from completed projects to new assignments, to forecast customer demand for services and to deploy personnel with appropriate skills and seniority to projects. Grid Dynamics management generally tracks utilization with respect to subsets of employees, by location or by project, and calculates the utilization rate for each subset by dividing (x) the aggregate number of billable hours for a period by (y) the aggregate number of total available hours for the same period. Grid Dynamics management analyzes and projects utilization to measure the efficiency of its workforce and to inform managements budget and personnel recruiting decisions. Customer Concentration Grid Dynamics ability to retain and expand its relationships with existing customers and add new customers are key indicators of its revenue potential. Excluding Daxx, Grid Dynamics grew its customer base from 40 customers in 2019 to 52 customers in 2020. Grid Dynamics procurement of new customers has a direct impact on its ability to diversify its sources of revenue and replace customers that may no longer require its services. Grid Dynamics has a relatively high level of revenue concentration with certain customers. Of Grid Dynamics customers, two customers each accounted for 10% or more of Grid Dynamics revenue in the year ended December 31, 2020 and three customers each accounted for 10% or more of Grid Dynamics revenue in the year ended December 31, 2019. The following table shows the evolution of Grid Dynamics customer base and revenue concentration, as of the dates and for the annual periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in thousands, except a number of customers and percentages ) Total customers (for the period) (1) 52 40 25 Of which: >$5.0 million 7 7 7 >$2.5 - 5.0 million 3 3 2 >$1.0 - 2.5 million 7 5 2 Top five customers 56 % 67 % 71 % Top ten customers 79 % 87 % 94 % Top five customers $ 62,152 $ 78,715 $ 65,351 Top ten customers $ 87,203 $ 102,646 $ 86,604 (1) Excluding customers of Daxx. 33 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Exposure Grid Dynamics is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk and its profit margins are subject to volatility between periods due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Grid Dynamics functional currency, as well as the functional currency of all of its subsidiaries, is the U.S. dollar. Grid Dynamics contracts with customers for payment in and generates substantially all of its revenue in U.S. dollars. Its non-U.S. subsidiaries operations relate substantially to performing services under those contracts. Several of Grid Dynamics subsidiaries conduct operations and employ or contract personnel in Russia, Ukraine, Poland and Serbia, but keep their books and records in U.S. dollars. Grid Dynamics foreign currency transaction exposure is a result of having to convert U.S. dollars into the local currencies of the countries in which it must pay expenses, typically by transferring funds to its non-U.S. subsidiaries. These expenses are primarily comprised of compensation and benefits and other operating costs, such as rent. Subsidiary transactions executed in local currencies are converted into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect on the date of the transaction, in the case of asset and liability transactions, or at the average monthly exchange rate, in the case of income and expense transactions. Certain balances in local currencies, particularly cash and financial instruments, are adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect the then-current exchange rate, which is the rate at which the related receivable or payable could be settled at that date. As a result, Grid Dynamics assets, liabilities, profit margins and other measures of profitability may be subject to volatility due to changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the currencies in which Grid Dynamics subsidiaries incur operating expenses, hold assets or owe liabilities, and may not be comparable between periods. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, approximately 14%, 12%, and 10% of Grid Dynamics $126.7 million of combined cost of revenue and total operating expenses were denominated in the Russian rouble, Ukrainian hryvnia and Polish zloty, respectively. Comparatively, for the year ended December 31, 2019, approximately 22%, 13%, and 12% of Grid Dynamics $102.7 million of combined cost of revenue and total operating expenses were denominated in the Russian rouble, Ukrainian hryvnia and Polish zloty, respectively. Grid Dynamics does not currently hedge its foreign currency exposure, although it seeks to minimize such exposure by limiting cash transfers to amounts necessary to fund subsidiary operating expenses for a short period, typically one to two weeks. When and where possible, Grid Dynamics seeks to match expenses to the U.S. dollar. For example, in Ukraine, Grid Dynamics generally pays salaries in the current hryvnia equivalent of an agreed U.S. dollar amount, consistent with local requirements. As a result, a significant portion of Grid Dynamics exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Ukrainian hryvnia against the U.S. dollar is naturally hedged. Management carefully evaluates its exposure to foreign currency risk and, though Grid Dynamics does not currently hedge this exposure through the use of financial instruments, it may do so in the future. See Item 7A,