Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of the financial condition and results of operations of Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the audited financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 3, 2022. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by, among other things, the use of forward-looking terminology such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seek, intends, plans, estimates, projects, anticipates, or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the sections titled Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. (Grid Dynamics, the Company, we, us, or our) is an emerging leader in enterprise-level digital transformations in Fortune 1000 companies. For enterprises that create innovative digital products and experiences, Grid Dynamics offers close collaboration to provide digital transformation initiatives that span strategy consulting, development of early prototypes and enterprise-scale delivery of new digital platforms. Since its inception in 2006 in Menlo Park, California, as a grid and cloud consultancy firm, Grid Dynamics has been on the forefront of digital transformation, working on big ideas like cloud computing, NOSQL, DevOps, microservices, big data and AI, and quickly established itself as a provider of choice for technology and digital enterprise companies. As a leading global digital engineering and IT services provider with its headquarters in Silicon Valley and engineering centers in the United States, Mexico and multiple European countries, Grid Dynamics core business is to deliver focused and complex technical consulting, software design, development, testing and internet service operations. Grid Dynamics also helps organizations become more agile and create innovative digital products and experiences through its deep expertise in emerging technology, such as AI, data science, cloud computing, big data and DevOps, lean software development practices and a high-performance product culture. Grid Dynamics believes that the key to its success is a business culture that puts products over projects, client success over contract terms and real business results over pure technical innovation. By leveraging Grid Dynamics proprietary processes optimized for innovation, emphasis on talent development and technical expertise, Grid Dynamics has been able to achieve significant growth. Table of Co n t e n t s The following table sets forth a summary of Grid Dynamics financial results for the periods indicated: Three months ended March 31, (dollars in thousands, except per share data) 2022 2021 % of revenue % of revenue Revenues $ 71,410 100.0 % $ 39,134 100.0 % Gross profit 26,779 37.5 % 15,337 39.2 % Income/(loss) from operations 203 0.3 % (1,778) (4.5) % Net loss (2,667) (3.7) % (2,062) (5.3) % Comprehensive loss (2,950) (4.1) % (2,013) (5.1) % Diluted loss per share $ (0.04) n/a $ (0.04) n/a Non-GAAP Financial Information (1) Non-GAAP EBITDA (1) 11,375 15.9 % 5,263 13.4 % Non-GAAP Net Income (1) 6,948 9.7 % 3,065 7.8 % Non-GAAP Diluted EPS (1) $ 0.10 n/a $ 0.05 n/a (1) Non-GAAP EBITDA, Non-GAAP Net Income and Non-GAAP Diluted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Measures below for additional information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Quarterly Highlights In the three months ended March 31, 2022, our revenues of $71.4 million were up $4.9 million or 7.3% in comparison to the three months ended December 31, 2021, and up 82.5% from the three months ended March 31, 2021. Similar to the last year, in the three months ended March 31, 2022, we witnessed healthy business trends. The three months ended March 31, 2022 also marked the fifth consecutive sequential growth quarter since witnessing a bottom in revenues in the three months ended March 31, 2020. During the quarter, we witnessed strong demand from our customers across our industry verticals as digital transformation initiatives take center stage. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, our largest industry vertical was Retail. At 32.6% of revenue, our Retail vertical was up 6.6% in comparison to the three months ended December 31, 2021, and up 163.4% from the three months ended March 31, 2021. The strong sequential and year-over-year growth was driven by a combination of factors that included ramping of business by Retail customers as they invest in digital transformation initiatives combined with several of our customers enhancing their engagements as they witness improving business trends. Our Technology Media, and Telecom (TMT) vertical comprised 30.0% of our revenue, while Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG)/Manufacturing, Finance, and Other verticals contributed to 21.0%, 6.3%, and 10.1% respectively. Revenues from our Top 5 customers during the quarter was 42.8%, down from 50.1% in the same quarter year ago. The diversification in our Top 5 customer concentration was driven by a combination of factors that included success in ramping business at new customers and growing business at existing customers, aided by our recent acquisitions. We continue to focus on revenue diversification by increasing our customer base with new customer additions. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we received revenues from a total of 213 customers, up from 184 customers in the three months ended March 31, 2021. We ended the three months ended March 31, 2022 with $(2.7) million, or (3.7)% in GAAP Net Loss, an improvement from a GAAP Net Loss of $(3.6) million, or (5.4)% in the three months ended December 31, 2021 and a GAAP Net Loss of $(2.1) million, or (5.3)% in the three months ended March 31, 2021. We ended the three months ended March 31, 2022 with $11.4 million, or 15.9% in Non-GAAP EBITDA, down from $11.6 million, or 17.4% in the three months ended December 31, 2021 and up from $5.3 million, or 13.4% in the three months ended March 31, 2021. The year-over-year increase in Non-GAAP EBITDA was largely driven by increase in billable personnel and billable work hours. COVID-19 Related Updates In December 2019, a novel coronavirus COVID-19 was reported in China, and in March 2020, the World Health Organization declared it a pandemic. This contagious disease pandemic has continued to spread across the globe, including extensively Table of Co n t e n t s within the U.S., and is impacting worldwide economic activity and financial markets, significantly increasing economic volatility and uncertainty. In response to this global pandemic, several local, state, and federal governments have been prompted to take unprecedented steps that include, but not limited to, travel restrictions, closure of businesses, social distancing, and quarantines. Starting in March 2020, headwinds to our business from the pandemic were largely centered around our retail customers as many of them witnessed a slowdown in their sales. After witnessing a low point in the month of May 2020, our retail business has steadily improved as we have added new customers and have grown existing business across industry verticals. We are now facing challenges from COVID-19 such as employee retention and shortage of talent on the job market. We continue to take precautionary measures intended to minimize the risk of the virus to our employees, our customers, and the communities in which we operate. Although a significant proportion of our employees continue to work remotely, all our facilities have been opened for employees to work following local government guidelines. We continue to deliver services to our customers in this fashion and this has resulted in minimal disruption in our operational and delivery capabilities. Business Update Regarding Military Action in Ukraine On February 24, 2022, Russian forces launched significant military action against Ukraine, and sustained conflict and disruption in the region has resulted and is likely to continue. The impact to Ukraine as well as actions taken by other countries, including new and stricter sanctions imposed by the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and other countries and companies and organizations against officials, individuals, regions, and industries in Russia and Ukraine, and each countrys potential response to such sanctions, tensions, and military actions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. For example, in response to increased sanctions, Russia could attempt to take control of assets in Russia or Ukraine of companies registered in the United States, such as Grid Dynamics. Any such material adverse effect from the conflict and enhanced sanctions activity may disrupt our delivery of services, impair our ability to complete financial or banking transactions, cause us to continue to shift all or portions of our work occurring in the region to other countries, and may restrict our ability to engage in certain projects in the region or involving certain customers in the region. We have historically had a significant number of personnel in Ukraine and Russia. We are actively monitoring the security of our personnel and the stability of our infrastructure, including communications and internet availability. We executed our business continuity plan and have adapted to developments as they occur to protect the safety of our people and handle potential impacts to our delivery infrastructure. This includes moving affected employees to safer locations in Western Ukraine and, where permissible, outside Ukraine, and reallocating work to other geographies within our global footprint. We are actively working with our personnel and with our customers to meet their needs and to mitigate delivery challenges. In April 2022, Grid Dynamics also announced it would cease remaining operations in the Russian Federation. We have worked towards the safe and expedient relocation of willing employees and ongoing management of projects to eliminate delivery impact to clients. In addition we announced our expansion to a new European hub with an office in Zug, Switzerland, a new engineering office in Yerevan, Armenia and workforce expansion in India. We have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the military action in Ukraine, as the conflict and government reactions are rapidly developing and beyond our control. Prolonged unrest, military activities, expansion of hostilities, or broad-based sanctions, should they be implemented, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business outlook. The information contained in this section is accurate as of the date hereof, but may become outdated due to changing circumstances beyond our present awareness or control. For additional information on the various risks posed by the military action in Ukraine and the impact in the region, please read Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Comparability of Financial Information Grid Dynamics results of operations and statements of assets and liabilities may not be comparable between periods as a result of the Business Combination closed during the year ended December 31, 2021 as well as due to other events and transactions discussed below. Key Performance Indicators and Other Factors Affecting Performance Grid Dynamics uses the following key performance indicators and assesses the following other factors to analyze its business performance, to make budgets and financial forecasts and to develop strategic plans: Table of Co n t e n t s Employees by Region Attracting and retaining the right employees is critical to the success of Grid Dynamics business and is a key factor in Grid Dynamics ability to meet client needs and grow its revenue base. Grid Dynamics revenue prospects and long-term success depend significantly on its ability to recruit and retain qualified IT professionals. A substantial majority of Grid Dynamics personnel is comprised of such IT professionals. The following table shows the number of Grid Dynamics personnel (including full-time employees and contractors serving in similar capacities) by region, as of the dates indicated: As of March 31, 2022 2021 United States and Mexico 406 253 Central and Eastern Europe (1) , U.K., and the Netherlands 3,248 1,803 Rest of the world 17 Total 3,671 2,056 __________________________ (1) Includes Ukraine, Russia, Poland, Serbia, Moldova. Attrition There is competition for IT professionals in the regions in which Grid Dynamics operates, and any increase in such competition may adversely impact Grid Dynamics business and gross profit margins. Employee retention is one of Grid Dynamics main priorities and is a key driver of operational efficiency. Grid Dynamics seeks to retain top talent by providing the opportunity to work on exciting, cutting-edge projects for high profile clients, a flexible work environment and training and development programs. Grid Dynamics management targets a voluntary attrition rate no higher than the mid-teen percentages, in line with the industry. Hours and Utilization As most of Grid Dynamics customer projects are performed and invoiced on a time and materials basis, Grid Dynamics management tracks and projects billable hours as an indicator of business volume and corresponding resource needs for IT professionals. To maintain its gross profit margins, Grid Dynamics must effectively utilize its IT professionals, which depends on its ability to integrate and train new personnel, to efficiently transition personnel from completed projects to new assignments, to forecast customer demand for services and to deploy personnel with appropriate skills and seniority to projects. Grid Dynamics management generally tracks utilization with respect to subsets of employees, by location or by project, and calculates the utilization rate for each subset by dividing (x) the aggregate number of billable hours for a period by (y) the aggregate number of total available hours for the same period. Grid Dynamics management analyzes and projects utilization to measure the efficiency of its workforce and to inform managements budget and personnel recruiting decisions. Customer Concentration Grid Dynamics ability to retain and expand its relationships with existing customers and add new customers are key indicators of its revenue potential. Grid Dynamics grew its customer base from 184 customers during the three months ended March 31, 2021 to 213 customers in the same period of 2022. Grid Dynamics procurement of new customers has a direct impact on its ability to diversify its sources of revenue and replace customers that may no longer require its services. Grid Dynamics has a relatively high level of revenue concentration with certain customers. The following table shows the evolution of Grid Dynamics customer base and revenue concentration, as of the dates and for the periods indicated: Table of Co n t e n t s Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Total customers (for the period) 213 184 Of which (customer revenue amounts annualized for interim periods): >$5.0 million 11 8 >$2.5 5.0 million 9 5 >$1.0 2.5 million 25 13 Top five customers 42.8 % 50.1 % Top ten customers 58.3 % 66.7 % Top five customers $ 30,543 $ 19,603 Top ten customers $ 41,653 $ 26,096 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Exposure Grid Dynamics is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk and its profit margins are subject to volatility between periods due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Grid Dynamics functional currency apart from the U.S. dollar includes EURO, British pounds, Mexican pesos and Moldovan leu. Grid Dynamics contracts with customers for payment in and generates predominantly all of its revenue in U.S. dollars. Apart from U.S. dollars revenues are also generated in EURO and British pounds. At the same time the major part of our expenses excluding U.S. dollars are incurred in Russian rubles, EURO and Polish zloty. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, these currencies comprised approximately 13.3%, 10.7% and 6.6% of Grid Dynamics $71.2 million combined cost of revenue and total operating expenses, respectively. Comparatively, the same foreign currencies accounted for approximately 10.9%, 13.9% and 7.9% of Grid Dynamics $40.9 million of combined cost of revenue and total operating expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Grid Dynamics does not currently hedge its foreign currency exposure, although it seeks to minimize such exposure by limiting cash transfers to amounts necessary to fund subsidiary operating expenses for a short period, typically one to two weeks. When and where possible, Grid Dynamics seeks to match expenses to the U.S. dollar. Management carefully evaluates its exposure to foreign currency risk and, though Grid Dynamics does not currently hedge this exposure using financial instruments, it may do so in the future. See Item 7A,