Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of the financial condition and results of operations of Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the audited financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 5, 2021. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by, among other things, the use of forward-looking terminology such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seek, intends, plans, estimates, projects, anticipates, or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the sections titled Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. (Grid Dynamics, GDH, the Company, we, us, or our) is an emerging leader in enterprise-level digital transformations in Fortune 1000 companies. For enterprises that create innovative digital products and experiences, Grid Dynamics offers close collaboration to provide digital transformation initiatives that span strategy consulting, development of early prototypes and enterprise-scale delivery of new digital platforms. Since its inception in 2006 in Menlo Park, California, as a grid and cloud consultancy firm, Grid Dynamics has been on the forefront of digital transformation, working on big ideas like cloud computing, NOSQL, DevOps, microservices, big data and AI, and quickly established itself as a provider of choice for technology and digital enterprise companies. As a leading global digital engineering and IT services provider with its headquarters in Silicon Valley and engineering centers in the United States and multiple Central and Eastern European countries, Grid Dynamics core business is to deliver focused and complex technical consulting, software design, development, testing and internet service operations. Grid Dynamics also helps organizations become more agile and create innovative digital products and experiences through its deep expertise in emerging technology, such as AI, data science, cloud computing, big data and DevOps, lean software development practices and a high-performance product culture. Grid Dynamics believes that the key to its success is a business culture that puts products over projects, client success over contract terms and real business results over pure technical innovation. By leveraging Grid Dynamics proprietary processes optimized for innovation, emphasis on talent development and technical expertise, Grid Dynamics has been able to achieve significant growth. We are a former blank check company that completed our initial public offering on May 21, 2018. In March 2020, Grid Dynamics, formerly known as ChaSerg Technology Acquisition Corp (ChaSerg), completed its acquisition of Grid Dynamics International, Inc. (GDI) pursuant to the business combination agreement dated November 13, 2019 (the Business Combination). In conjunction with the completion of the Business Combination, ChaSerg was renamed as Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. The Business Combination was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization for which GDI was determined to be the accounting acquirer. Outstanding shares of GDI were converted into our common shares, presented as a recapitalization, and the net assets of ChaSerg were acquired at historical cost, with no goodwill or other intangible assets recorded. 20 The following table sets forth a summary of Grid Dynamics financial results for the periods indicated: Three months ended March 31, (dollars in thousands, except per share data) 2021 2020 % of revenue % of revenue Revenues $ 39,134 100 % $ 32,457 100.0 % Gross profit 15,337 39.2 % 9,818 30.2 % Loss from operations (1,778 ) (4.5 )% (7,034 ) (21.7 )% Net loss (2,062 ) (5.3 )% (4,596 ) (14.2 )% Comprehensive loss (2,013 ) (5.1 )% (4,596 ) (14.2 )% Diluted loss per share (0.04 ) n/a (0.16 ) n/a Non-GAAP Financial Information (1) Non-GAAP EBITDA (1) 5,263 13.4 % 3,045 9.4 % Non-GAAP Net Income (1) 3,065 7.8 % 1,878 5.8 % Non-GAAP Diluted EPS (1) $ 0.05 n/a $ 0.05 n/a (1) Non-GAAP EBITDA, Non-GAAP Net Income and Non-GAAP Diluted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Measures below for additional information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Recent Developments In the three months ended March 31, 2021, our revenues of $39.1 million were up 30% in comparison to the three months ended December 31, 2020, and up 21% from the three months ended March 31, 2020. Our three months ended March 31, 2021 revenues included $6.5 million in revenue contribution from the acquisition of Daxx Web Industries B.V. (Daxx). Excluding the contribution from Daxx, in the three months ended March 31, 2021, our revenues of $32.6 million were up 12% in comparison to the three months ended December 31, 2020, and sightly up from the three months ended March 31, 2020 and achieved an important milestone of reaching pre-Covid revenue levels. Overall, in the three months ended March 31, 2021, we witnessed healthy business trends with the business momentum picking up towards the end of January. This is largely reflected in the double-digit sequential growth over the three months ended March 31, 2021. The three months ended March 31, 2021 also marked the third consecutive sequential growth quarter since witnessing a bottom in revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2020. During the quarter, we witnessed customers across our industry verticals elevating the importance of digital transformation initiatives and in many cases making these initiatives mandatory. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, our largest industry vertical continued to be the Technology Media, and Telecom (TMT) at 37% of our revenue, while Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG)/Manufacturing, Finance, and Other verticals contributed to 22%, 9%, and 9% respectively. Revenues from our Top 5 customers during the quarter was 50%, down from 64% in the same quarter year ago. The diversification in our Top 5 customer concentration was driven by a combination of factors that included success in ramping business at new customers and growing business at existing customers. We continue to focus on revenue diversification by increasing our customer base with new customers additions. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we received revenues from a total of 184 customers. Of this, 136 were Daxx customers. Excluding Daxx, we had 48 paying customers that included six new customers during the three months ended March 31, 2021. We exited the three months ended March 31, 2021 with $2.1 million, or 5% in GAAP Net Loss, up from a GAAP Net Loss of $4.7 million, or 16% in the three months ended December 31, 2020 and a GAAP Net Loss of $4.6 million, or 14% in the three months ended March 31, 2020. We exited the three months ended March 31, 2021 with $5.3 million, or 13% in Non-GAAP EBITDA, up from $4.1 million, or 14% in the three months ended December 31, 2020 and $3.0 million, or 9% in the three months ended March 31, 2020. The sequential increase in profitability was largely driven by increase in billable personnel and billable work hours. On February 17, 2021, we entered into a Warrant Exchange Agreement with Millennium Management LLC, a holder of 6.4 million of our outstanding publicly traded warrants. Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement, the holder exchanged each of its Public Warrants for 0.3480 shares of our common stock and thereby receiving 2.2 million shares of common stock. With this exchange, we have a total of 4.6 million publicly traded warrants outstanding. 21 Acquisition of Daxx On December 14, 2020, we acquired Netherland based Daxx in an all-cash transaction. Headquartered in Amsterdam, and with roughly 490 employees, the company has engineering centers situated in major tech hubs across Ukraine. The company has over 20 years of experience in delivering software services to clients across a wide range of industry verticals that include high-tech, digital media, healthcare, and education. Some of the key capabilities include consulting services spanning agile process reengineering, lean development, and DevOps. Daxx serves customers in the Netherlands, Germany, U.K., and U.S., and with strong relationships with high-growth start-ups and established software companies. We believe the acquisition of Daxx will enable us to have a stronger foothold in Europe and will enable the company to continue diversifying our business. In the three months ended March 31, 2021 and three months ended December 31, 2020, Daxx contributed $6.5 million and $1.0 million in revenue, respectively. COVID-19 Related Updates In December 2019, a novel coronavirus COVID-19 was reported in China, and in March 2020, the World Health Organization declared it a pandemic. This contagious disease pandemic has continued to spread across the globe, including extensively within the U.S., and is impacting worldwide economic activity and financial markets, significantly increasing economic volatility and uncertainty. In response to this global pandemic, several local, state, and federal governments have been prompted to take unprecedented steps that include, but not limited to, travel restrictions, closure of businesses, social distancing, and quarantines. Starting in March 2020, headwinds to our business from the pandemic were largely centered around our retail customers as many of them witnessed a slowdown in their sales. After witnessing a low point in the month of May 2020, our business has steadily improved as we have added new customers and have grown existing business across industry verticals. We continue to take precautionary measures intended to minimize the risk of the virus to our employees, our customers, and the communities in which we operate that include suspension of all non-essential travel. Although a significant proportion of our employees continue to work remotely, all our facilities in the Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) region have been opened for employees to work following local government guidelines. We continue to deliver services to our clients in this fashion and this has resulted in minimal disruption in our operational and delivery capabilities. Business Combination On March 5, 2020, a wholly-owned subsidiary (Merger Sub 1) of ChaSerg merged with and into GDI, with GDI surviving the merger (the Initial Merger). Immediately following the Initial Merger, GDI merged with and into another wholly-owned subsidiary of ChaSerg (Merger Sub 2) with Merger Sub 2 surviving; Merger Sub 2 was then renamed Grid Dynamics International, LLC, and ChaSerg was then renamed Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. (the Business Combination). As of the open of trading on March 6, 2020, the common stock and warrants of Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. (Grid Dynamics), formerly those of ChaSerg, began trading on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC as GDYN and GDYNW, respectively. 22 Comparability of Financial Information Grid Dynamics results of operations and statements of assets and liabilities may not be comparable between periods as a result of the Business Combination on March 5, 2020 and the other events and transactions discussed below. Key Performance Indicators and Other Factors Affecting Performance Grid Dynamics uses the following key performance indicators and assesses the following other factors to analyze its business performance, to make budgets and financial forecasts and to develop strategic plans: Employees by Region Attracting and retaining the right employees is critical to the success of Grid Dynamics business and is a key factor in Grid Dynamics ability to meet client needs and grow its revenue base. Grid Dynamics revenue prospects and long-term success depend significantly on its ability to recruit and retain qualified IT professionals. A substantial majority of Grid Dynamics personnel is comprised of such IT professionals. The following table shows the number of Grid Dynamics personnel (including full-time employees and contractors serving in similar capacities) by region, as of the dates indicated: As of March 31, 2021 2020 United States 253 264 Central and Eastern Europe (1) 1,803 1,093 Total (2) 2,056 1,357 (1) Includes Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Serbia and the Netherlands. (2) As of March 31, 2021, there were 486 Daxx personnel including full-time and part-time employees and contractors serving in similar capacities located in Ukraine and the Netherlands. Attrition There is competition for IT professionals in the regions in which Grid Dynamics operates, and any increase in such competition may adversely impact Grid Dynamics business and gross profit margins. Employee retention is one of Grid Dynamics main priorities and is a key driver of operational efficiency. Grid Dynamics seeks to retain top talent by providing the opportunity to work on exciting, cutting-edge projects for high profile clients, a flexible work environment and training and development programs. Grid Dynamics management targets a voluntary attrition rate no higher than the mid-teen percentages, in line with the industry. Hours and Utilization As most of Grid Dynamics customer projects are performed and invoiced on a time and materials basis, Grid Dynamics management tracks and projects billable hours as an indicator of business volume and corresponding resource needs for IT professionals. To maintain its gross profit margins, Grid Dynamics must effectively utilize its IT professionals, which depends on its ability to integrate and train new personnel, to efficiently transition personnel from completed projects to new assignments, to forecast customer demand for services and to deploy personnel with appropriate skills and seniority to projects. Grid Dynamics management generally tracks utilization with respect to subsets of employees, by location or by project, and calculates the utilization rate for each subset by dividing (x) the aggregate number of billable hours for a period by (y) the aggregate number of total available hours for the same period. Grid Dynamics management analyzes and projects utilization to measure the efficiency of its workforce and to inform managements budget and personnel recruiting decisions. 23 Customer Concentration Grid Dynamics ability to retain and expand its relationships with existing customers and add new customers are key indicators of its revenue potential. Grid Dynamics grew its customer base from 37 customers in 2020 to 184 customers in 2021, including 136 customers that were acquired as part of the acquisition of Daxx in December 2020. Grid Dynamics procurement of new customers has a direct impact on its ability to diversify its sources of revenue and replace customers that may no longer require its services. Grid Dynamics has a relatively high level of revenue concentration with certain customers. Of Grid Dynamics customers, two customers each accounted for 10% or more of Grid Dynamics revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2021 and three customers each accounted for 10% or more of Grid Dynamics revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2020. The following table shows the evolution of Grid Dynamics customer base and revenue concentration, as of the dates and for the periods indicated: Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 Total customers (for the period) (1) 184 37 Of which (customer revenue amounts annualized for interim periods): >$5.0 million 8 7 >$2.5 5.0 million 5 4 >$1.0 2.5 million 13 4 Top five customers 50 % 64 % Top ten customers 67 % 86 % Top five customers $ 19,603 $ 20,780 Top ten customers $ 26,096 $ 27,946 (1) Daxxs number of customers for the three months ended March 31, 2021 is 136. 24 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Exposure Grid Dynamics is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk and its profit margins are subject to volatility between periods due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Grid Dynamics functional currency, as well as the functional currency of all of its subsidiaries, is the U.S. dollar, except for Daxx, which functional currency is EURO. Grid Dynamics contracts with customers for payment in and generates predominantly all of its revenue in U.S. dollars, except for Daxx that generates revenue in EURO. Its non-U.S. subsidiaries operations relate substantially to performing services under those contracts. Several of Grid Dynamics subsidiaries conduct operations and employ or contract personnel in Russia, Ukraine, Poland and Serbia, but keep their books and records in U.S. dollars Daxxs books are kept in EURO. Grid Dynamics foreign currency transaction exposure is a result of having to convert U.S. dollars into the local currencies of the countries in which it must pay expenses, typically by transferring funds to its non-U.S. subsidiaries. These expenses are primarily comprised of compensation and benefits and other operating costs, such as rent. Subsidiary transactions executed in local currencies are converted into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect on the date of the transaction, in the case of asset and liability transactions, or at the average monthly exchange rate, in the case of income and expense transactions. Certain balances in local currencies, particularly cash and financial instruments, are adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect the then-current exchange rate, which is the rate at which the related receivable or payable could be settled at that date. As a result, Grid Dynamics assets, liabilities, profit margins and other measures of profitability may be subject to volatility due to changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the currencies in which Grid Dynamics subsidiaries incur operating expenses, hold assets or owe liabilities, and may not be comparable between periods. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, approximately 11%, 25% and 8% of Grid Dynamics $40.9 million of combined cost of revenue and total operating expenses were denominated in the Russian ruble, Ukrainian hryvnia and Polish zloty, respectively. Comparatively, the same foreign currencies accounted for approximately 18%, 11% and 10% of Grid Dynamics $39.5 million of combined cost of revenue and total operating expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2020. Grid Dynamics does not currently hedge its foreign currency exposure, although it seeks to minimize such exposure by limiting cash transfers to amounts necessary to fund subsidiary operating expenses for a short period, typically one to two weeks. When and where possible, Grid Dynamics seeks to match expenses to the U.S. dollar. For example, in Ukraine, Grid Dynamics generally pays salaries in the current hryvnia equivalent of an agreed U.S. dollar amount, consistent with local requirements. As a result, a significant portion of Grid Dynamics exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Ukrainian hryvnia against the U.S. dollar is naturally hedged. Management carefully evaluates its exposure to foreign currency risk and, though Grid Dynamics does not currently hedge this exposure through the use of financial instruments, it may do so in the future. See Item 7A,