Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the audited financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 28, 2023. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by, among other things, the use of forward-looking terminology such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seek, intends, plans, estimates, projects, anticipates, or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the sections titled Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Grid Dynamics Holdings, Inc. (Grid Dynamics, GDH, the Company, we, us, or our) is a fast-growing company focused on enterprise-level digital transformations in Fortune 1000 companies. For enterprises that create innovative digital products and experiences, Grid Dynamics offers close collaboration to provide digital transformation initiatives that span strategy consulting, development of early prototypes and enterprise-scale delivery of new digital platforms. Since its inception in 2006 in Menlo Park, California, as a grid and cloud consultancy firm, Grid Dynamics has been on the forefront of digital transformation, working on big ideas like cloud computing, NOSQL, DevOps, microservices, big data and AI, and quickly established itself as a provider of choice for technology and digital enterprise companies. As a leading global digital engineering and IT services provider with its headquarters in Silicon Valley and engineering centers in the United States, Mexico, India, Jamaica and multiple European countries, Grid Dynamics core business is to deliver focused and complex technical consulting, software design, development, testing and internet service operations. Grid Dynamics also helps organizations become more agile and create innovative digital products and experiences through its deep expertise in emerging technology, such as AI, data science, cloud computing, big data and DevOps, lean software development practices and a high-performance product culture. Grid Dynamics believes that the key to its success is a business culture that puts products over projects, client success over contract terms and real business results over pure technical innovation. By leveraging Grid Dynamics proprietary processes optimized for innovation, emphasis on talent development and technical expertise, Grid Dynamics has been able to achieve significant growth. Table of Contents The following table sets forth a summary of Grid Dynamics financial results for the periods indicated: Three months ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands, except per share data and percentages) Revenues $ 80,080 100.0 % $ 71,410 100.0 % Gross profit 28,575 35.7 % 26,779 37.5 % Income/(loss) from operations (5,992) (7.5) % 203 0.3 % Net loss (7,970) (10.0) % (2,667) (3.7) % Diluted loss per share $ (0.11) n/a $ (0.04) n/a Non-GAAP Financial Information(1) Non-GAAP EBITDA(1) 10,832 13.5 % 11,375 15.9 % Non-GAAP Net Income(1) 6,523 8.1 % 6,948 9.7 % Non-GAAP Diluted EPS(1) $ 0.08 n/a $ 0.10 n/a__________________________ (1)Non-GAAP EBITDA, Non-GAAP Net Income and Non-GAAP Diluted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Measures below for additional information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Quarterly Highlights During the first quarter of 2023 our revenues of $80.1 million remained flat compared to the three months ended December 31, 2022, and were up by $8.7 million from the three months ended March 31, 2022. The year-over-year increase in revenues was due to a combination of increased business volumes from existing and new customers and the acquisition of Mutual Mobile. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, our Technology Media, and Telecom (TMT) vertical remained our largest industry comprising 33.5% of our quarterly revenues. On a year-over-year basis, the growth of the vertical was driven by increase in business from our large technology customers. Retail ended up with 31.7% of revenue and remained relatively on the same level in comparison to the three months ended December 31, 2022, and a growth of 9.0% on a year-over-year basis. The year-over-year growth was driven by a combination of factors that included ramp up at existing customers, revenue contribution from new customers, and revenue from the acquisition of Mutual Mobile. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, our Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG)/Manufacturing vertical declined by (15.6)% and (10.2)% on a year-over-year and sequential basis, respectively. Key reasons for the decline were a combination of macro-related uncertainty resulting in a more cautionary outlook towards spending and customer specific factors. During the first quarter of 2023, Finance, and Other verticals contributed to 8.1%, and 10.9%, respectively. Revenues from our Top 5 customers during the quarter decreased by (2.0)% to 40.8% compared to the same period a year ago mainly due to a decrease in revenues generated from our largest CPG/Manufacturing customer. We ended the first quarter of 2023 with $(8.0) million, or (10.0)% in GAAP Net Loss, a change from a GAAP Net Loss of $(6.7) million, or (8.3)% in the three months ended December 31, 2022 and a GAAP Net Loss of $(2.7) million, or (3.7)% in the first quarter of 2022. The year-over-year increase in GAAP Net Loss was largely driven by a combination of higher stock-based compensation expenses and labor costs as well as additional transaction and transformation related costs slightly offset by higher revenues. We ended the first quarter of 2023 with $10.8 million, or 13.5% in Non-GAAP EBITDA, down from $16.5 million, or 20.4% in the fourth quarter of 2022 and from $11.4 million, or 15.9% in the three months ended March 31, 2022. The sequential decrease in Non-GAAP EBITDA was largely driven by decline in gross profit and higher operating expenses, Business Update Regarding Military Action in Ukraine On February 24, 2022, Russian forces launched significant military action against Ukraine, and sustained conflict and disruption in the region has resulted and is likely to continue. The impact to Ukraine as well as actions taken by other countries, including new and stricter sanctions imposed by the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and other countries and companies and organizations against officials, individuals, regions, and industries in Russia and certain regions of Ukraine, and each countrys potential response to such sanctions, tensions, and military actions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. For example, in response to increased sanctions, Russia could attempt to take control of assets in Ukraine of companies registered in the United States, such as Grid Dynamics. Any such material adverse effect from the conflict and enhanced sanctions activity may disrupt our delivery of services, impair our ability to complete financial or Table of Contents banking transactions, cause us to continue to shift all or portions of our work occurring in the region to other countries, and may restrict our ability to engage in certain projects in the region or involving certain customers in the region. We are actively monitoring the security of our personnel and the stability of our infrastructure, including communications and internet availability. We executed our business continuity plan and have adapted to developments as they occur to protect the safety of our people and handle potential impacts to our delivery infrastructure. This includes moving affected employees to safer locations in Western Ukraine and, where permissible, outside Ukraine, and reallocating work to other geographies within our global footprint. We are actively working with our personnel and with our customers to meet their needs and to ensure smooth delivery of services. In April 2022, Grid Dynamics also announced it would cease remaining operations in the Russian Federation. We have worked towards the safe and expedient relocation of willing employees and ongoing management of projects to eliminate delivery impact to clients. In addition we announced our expansion to a new European hub with an office in Zug, Switzerland, a new engineering office in Yerevan, Armenia and workforce expansion in India. During the three months ended June 30, 2022, we relocated the majority of our Russia based employees outside of Russia. As of May 2023, we have no personnel in Russia and are performing no client services from Russia. We have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the military action in Ukraine, as the conflict and government reactions continue to develop and are beyond our control. Prolonged unrest, military activities, expansion of hostilities, or broad-based sanctions, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business outlook. For example, if Russia were to invade other countries, such as Moldova, it could adversely affect our business, including preventing the relocation of our employees from Russia. In addition, the current geopolitical situation in Serbia creates additional uncertainty in the region, and could adversely affect our business. The information contained in this section is accurate as of the date hereof, but may become outdated due to changing circumstances beyond our present awareness or control. For additional information on the various risks posed by the military action in Ukraine and the impact in the region, as well as other macroeconomic factors affecting our business, please read Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Recent Acquisitions On December 23, 2022, we acquired Mutual Mobile Inc. (Mutual Mobile), a company based out of Austin, Texas and with delivery operations in India. Mutual Mobile offers end-to-end design and development of next-generation applications, combining mobile, augmented/virtual/mixed reality, and cloud edge / IoT practices. It has developed wide-ranging, technical solutions for prominent global brands across numerous industry verticals, with Technology, Healthcare, Automotive, and Financial Services representing the top verticals by revenue. The acquisition of Mutual Mobile enhances our skills in the area of mobile technologies and UX expertise as well as accelerates our strategic expansion to India and supports our commitment towards offering our customers a global engineering and delivery platform. On April 18, 2023, we acquired NextSphere Technologies Inc. (NextSphere), a full-service custom application development firm. NextSphere is headquartered in Tampa, FL, and its clients are US-based. It also has an engineering presence in Phoenix, AZ, and operates two large engineering centers in the India tech hubs of Hyderabad and Chennai. The acquisition of Nextsphere will support our objectives of enhancing our technical offerings, expanding our global footprint, and increasing our client base. Key Performance Indicators and Other Factors Affecting Performance Grid Dynamics uses the following key performance indicators and assesses the following other factors to analyze its business performance, to make budgets and financial forecasts and to develop strategic plans: Employees by Region Attracting and retaining the right employees is critical to the success of Grid Dynamics business and is a key factor in Grid Dynamics ability to meet client needs and grow its revenue base. Grid Dynamics revenue prospects and long-term success depend significantly on its ability to recruit and retain qualified IT professionals. A substantial majority of Grid Dynamics personnel is comprised of such IT professionals. Table of Contents The following table shows the number of Grid Dynamics personnel (including full-time and part-time employees and contractors serving in similar capacities) by region, as of the dates indicated: As of March 31, 2023 2022 CEE, U.K., and the Netherlands 2,952 3,248 Americas 515 406 Rest of the world 277 17 Total 3,744 3,671 Attrition There is competition for IT professionals in the regions in which Grid Dynamics operates, and any increase in such competition may adversely impact Grid Dynamics business and gross profit margins. Employee retention is one of Grid Dynamics main priorities and is a key driver of operational efficiency. Grid Dynamics seeks to retain top talent by providing the opportunity to work on exciting, cutting-edge projects for high profile clients, a flexible work environment and training and development programs. Grid Dynamics management targets a voluntary attrition rate no higher than the mid-teen percentages, in line with the industry. Hours and Utilization As most of Grid Dynamics customer projects are performed and invoiced on a time and materials basis, Grid Dynamics management tracks and projects billable hours as an indicator of business volume and corresponding resource needs for IT professionals. To maintain its gross profit margins, Grid Dynamics must effectively utilize its IT professionals, which depends on its ability to integrate and train new personnel, to efficiently transition personnel from completed projects to new assignments, to forecast customer demand for services and to deploy personnel with appropriate skills and seniority to projects. Grid Dynamics management generally tracks utilization with respect to subsets of employees, by location or by project, and calculates the utilization rate for each subset by dividing (x) the aggregate number of billable hours for a period by (y) the aggregate number of total available hours for the same period. Grid Dynamics management analyzes and projects utilization to measure the efficiency of its workforce and to inform managements budget and personnel recruiting decisions. Customer Concentration Grid Dynamics ability to retain and expand its relationships with existing customers and add new customers are key indicators of its revenue potential. During the first quarter of 2023, the total number of customers was 220, up from 213 customers in the same period a year ago. Grid Dynamics procurement of new customers has a direct impact on its ability to diversify its sources of revenue and replace customers that may no longer require its services. Grid Dynamics has a relatively high level of revenue concentration with certain customers. During the first quarter of 2023 one customer accounted for 10% or more of Grid Dynamics revenue for the period compared to two customers during the first quarter of 2022. The following table presents revenues concentration by amount and as a percentage of our revenues for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands, except percentages) Top one customer $ 11,157 13.9 % $ 8,006 11.2 % Top five customers $ 32,667 40.8 % $ 30,543 42.8 % Top ten customers $ 48,391 60.4 % $ 41,653 58.3 % Top twenty customers $ 57,981 72.4 % $ 51,518 72.1 % Customers below top twenty $ 22,099 27.6 % $ 19,892 27.9 % Table of Contents Seasonality Grid Dynamics business is subject to seasonal trends that impact its revenues and profitability between quarters. Some of the factors that influence the seasonal trends include the timing of holidays in the countries in which Grid Dynamics operates and the U.S. retail cycle, which drives the behavior of Grid Dynamics retail customers. Excluding the impact of growth in its book of business, Grid Dynamics has historically recorded higher revenue and gross profit in the second and third quarters of each year compared to the first and fourth quarters of each year. In addition, many of Grid Dynamics retail sector customers tend to slow their discretionary spending during the holiday sale season, which typically lasts from late November (before Thanksgiving) through late December (after Christmas). Non-GAAP Measures To supplement Grid Dynamics consolidated financial data presented on a basis consistent with U.S. GAAP, this Quarterly Report contains certain non-GAAP financial measures, including Non-GAAP EBITDA, Non-GAAP Net Income and Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings Per Share, or EPS. Grid Dynamics has included these non-GAAP financial measures because they are financial measures used by Grid Dynamics management to evaluate Grid Dynamics core operating performance and trends, to make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital and new investments and are among the factors analyzed in making performance-based compensation decisions for key personnel. These measures exclude certain expenses that are required under U.S. GAAP. Grid Dynamics excludes these items because they are not part of core operations or, in the case of stock-based compensation, non-cash expenses that are determined based in part on Grid Dynamics underlying performance. Grid Dynamics believes these supplemental performance measurements are useful in evaluating operating performance, as they are similar to measures reported by its public industry peers and those regularly used by security analysts, investors and other interested parties in analyzing operating performance and prospects. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to be a substitute for any GAAP financial measures and, as calculated, may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of performance of other companies in other industries or within the same industry. There are significant limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Further, these measures may differ from the non-GAAP information, even where similarly titled, used by other companies and therefore should not be used to compare our performance to that of other companies. Grid Dynamics compensates for these limitations by providing investors and other users of its financial information a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the related GAAP financial measures. Grid Dynamics encourages investors and others to review its financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view its non-GAAP measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures. Grid Dynamics defines and calculates its non-GAAP financial measures as follows: Non-GAAP EBITDA: Net income/(loss) before interest income/expense, provision for income taxes and depreciation and amortization, and further adjusted for the impact of stock-based compensation expense, transaction-related costs (which include, when applicable, professional fees, retention bonuses, and consulting, legal and advisory costs related to Grid Dynamics merger and acquisition and capital-raising activities), impairment of goodwill and other income/expenses, net (which includes mainly interest income and expense, foreign currency transaction losses and gains, fair value adjustments and other miscellaneous expenses), and restructuring costs. Non-GAAP Net Income: Net income/(loss) adjusted for the impact of stock-based compensation, impairment of goodwill, transaction-related costs, restructuring costs, other income/expenses, net, and the tax impacts of these adjustments. Non-GAAP Diluted EPS: Non-GAAP Net income, divided by the diluted weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Table of Contents The following table presents the reconciliation of Grid Dynamics Non-GAAP EBITDA to its consolidated net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) GAAP net loss $ (7,970) $ (2,667) Adjusted for: Depreciation and amortization 1,645 1,589 Provision for income taxes 3,660 2,170 Stock-based compensation 13,257 8,661 Transaction and transformation-related costs (1) 788 Geographic reorganization (2) 691 922 Restructuring costs (3) 443 Other (income)/expense, net (4) (1,682) 700 Non-GAAP EBITDA $ 10,832 $ 11,375 __________________________ (1)Transaction and transformation-related costs include, when applicable, external deal costs, transaction-related professional fees, transaction-related retention bonuses, which are allocated proportionally across cost of revenue, engineering, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses as well as other transaction-related costs including integration expenses consisting of outside professional and consulting services. (2)Geographic reorganization includes expenses connected with military actions of Russia against Ukraine and the exit plan announced by the Company and includes travel and relocation-related expenses of employees from the aforementioned countries, severance payments, allowances as well as legal and professional fees related to geographic repositioning in various locations. These expenses are incremental to those expenses incurred prior to the crisis, clearly separable from normal operations, and not expected to recur once the crisis has subsided and operations return to normal. (3)We implemented a restructuring plan during the first quarter of 2023. Our restructuring costs comprised of severance charges and respective taxes. (4)Other (income)/expense, net consist primarily of gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, fair value adjustments, and other miscellaneous non-operating expenses as well as other income consists primarily of interest on cash held at banks and returns on investments in money-market funds. The following table presents a reconciliation of Grid Dynamics Non-GAAP Diluted EPS and its Non-GAAP Net Income to its consolidated net loss for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands, except per share data) GAAP net loss $ (7,970) $ (2,667) Adjusted for: Stock-based compensation 13,257 8,661 Transaction and transformation-related costs (1) 788 Geographic reorganization (2) 691 922 Restructuring costs (3) 443 Other (income)/expense, net (4) (1,682) 700 Tax impact of non-GAAP adjustments (5) 996 (668) Non-GAAP Net Income $ 6,523 $ 6,948 Number of shares used in the GAAP Diluted EPS 74,459 66,919 GAAP Diluted EPS $ (0.11) $ (0.04) Number of shares used in the Non-GAAP Diluted EPS 77,129 70,176 Non-GAAP Diluted EPS $ 0.08 $ 0.10 Table of Contents __________________________ (1)Transaction and transformation-related costs include, when applicable, external deal costs, transaction-related professional fees, transaction-related retention bonuses, which are allocated proportionally across cost of revenue, engineering, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses as well as other transaction-related costs including integration expenses consisting of outside professional and consulting services. (2)Geographic reorganization includes expenses connected with military actions of Russia against Ukraine and the exit plan announced by the Company and includes travel and relocation-related expenses of employees from the aforementioned countries, severance payments, allowances as well as legal and professional fees related to geographic repositioning in various locations. These expenses are incremental to those expenses incurred prior to the crisis, clearly separable from normal operations, and not expected to recur once the crisis has subsided and operations return to normal. (3)We implemented a restructuring plan during the first quarter of 2023. Our restructuring costs comprised of severance charges and respective taxes. (4)Other (income)/expense, net consist primarily of gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, fair value adjustments, and other miscellaneous non-operating expenses as well as other income consists primarily of interest on cash held at banks and returns on investments in money-market funds. (5)Reflects the estimated tax impact of the non-GAAP adjustments presented in the table. Key Components of Revenue and Expenses Revenue Grid Dynamics generates revenue by providing focused and complex services in the area of software engineering, development, integration, testing, and operations of digital services. Grid Dynamics provides services mainly on a time and materials basis and, to a much lesser extent, on a fixed-fee basis. While fixed-fee contracts currently represent not significant portion of overall revenue for the periods presented compared to time and material engagements, Grid Dynamics expects proportionate revenue from fixed-fee contracts to increase in future periods. On a time and materials basis, Grid Dynamics earns and recognizes revenue as hours and costs are incurred. On its current and future fixed fee contracts, Grid Dynamics earns and recognizes revenue as the work is performed, the monthly calculation of which is based upon actual labor hours incurred and level of effort expended throughout the duration of the contract. For both time and materials contracts and fixed fee contracts, hourly rates are typically determined based on the location and experience of Grid Dynamics personnel selected to perform the service and are negotiated for each contract or statement of work, as the case may be. For fixed fee contracts, the fixed fee generally remains constant for the contracted project period unless the customer directs a change in scope of project work or requests additional Grid Dynamics employees in excess of those scheduled for a specific project. In select cases, Grid Dynamics offers volume discounts or early settlement discounts, which are recorded as contra-revenue items. Volume discounts apply once the customer reaches certain contractual spend thresholds. Early settlement discounts are issued contingent upon the timing of the payment from the customer. If there is uncertainty about project completion or receipt of payment for services provided, revenue is deferred until the uncertainty is sufficiently resolved. Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of salaries and employee benefits, including performance bonuses and stock-based compensation, and travel expenses for client-serving personnel. Cost of revenue also includes depreciation and amortization expense related to client-serving activities. Engineering, Research and Development. Engineering, research and development expenses consist mainly of salaries and employee benefits including performance bonuses and stock-based compensation for personnel engaged in the design and development of solutions. Engineering, research and development expenses also include depreciation and amortization expenses related to such activities. Engineering, research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of expenses associated with promoting and selling Grid Dynamics services and consists mainly of salaries and employee benefits, including performance bonuses and stock-based compensation, marketing events, travel, as well as depreciation and amortization expenses related to such activities. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of administrative personnel and officers salaries and employee benefits including performance bonuses and stock-based compensation, legal and audit expenses, insurance, operating lease expenses (mainly facilities and vehicles) and other facility costs, workforce global mobility initiatives, restructuring and employee relocations cost (not in connection with customer projects), and depreciation and Table of Contents amortization expenses related to such activities. General and administrative expenses include a substantial majority of Grid Dynamics stock-based compensation costs for the financial periods discussed herein. Provision for Income Taxes. Grid Dynamics follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes, whereby deferred income taxes are recognized for the tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of the assets and liabilities. The provision for income taxes reflects income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. jurisdictions. Jurisdictional tax law changes, increases or decreases in permanent differences between book and tax items, accruals, or adjustments of accruals for tax contingencies or valuation allowances, and the change in the mix of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the overall effective tax rate. Results of Operations The three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022 The following table sets forth a summary of Grid Dynamics consolidated results of operations for the interim periods indicated, and the changes between periods: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 Dollars Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 80,080 $ 71,410 $ 8,670 12.1 % Cost of revenue 51,505 44,631 6,874 15.4 % Gross profit 28,575 26,779 1,796 6.7 % Engineering, research, and development 4,203 3,096 1,107 35.8 % Sales and marketing 5,634 4,215 1,419 33.7 % General and administrative 24,730 19,265 5,465 28.4 % Total operating expense 34,567 26,576 7,991 30.1 % Income/(loss) from operations (5,992) 203 (6,195) (3,051.7) % Other income/(expense), net 1,682 (700) 2,382 (340.3) % Income/(loss) before income taxes (4,310) (497) (3,813) 767.2 % Provision for income taxes 3,660 2,170 1,490 68.7 % Net loss $ (7,970) $ (2,667) $ (5,303) 198.8 % Revenues by Vertical. We assign our customers into one of our four main vertical markets or a group of various industries where we are increasing our presence, which we label as Verticals. The following table presents our revenues by vertical and revenues as a percentage of total revenues by vertical for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 % of revenue 2022 % of revenue (in thousands, except percentages) Technology, Media and Telecom $ 26,811 33.5 % $ 21,444 30.0 % Retail 25,396 31.7 % 23,307 32.6 % CPG/Manufacturing 12,646 15.8 % 14,979 21.0 % Finance 6,515 8.1 % 4,527 6.3 % Other 8,712 10.9 % 7,153 10.1 % Total $ 80,080 100.0 % $ 71,410 100.0 % Revenue. Revenue increased by $8.7 million, or 12.1%, to $80.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023 from $71.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022. The year-over-year increase was largely driven by a combination of higher business volume combined with contributions from the acquisition of Mutual Mobile. Cost of Revenue. Cost of revenue increased by $6.9 million, or 15.4%, to $51.5 million in the first quarter of 2023 from $44.6 million in the same period last year largely from increased costs of personnel to support higher revenue. Table of Contents Gross Profit. Gross profit increased by $1.8 million, or 6.7%, to $28.6 million in the first quarter of 2023 from $26.8 million in the comparable period of 2022. Gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of revenue) decreased by (1.8) percentage points to 35.7% in the three months ended March 31, 2023 from 37.5% in the three months ended March 31, 2022. The absolute increase in gross profit on a year-over-year basis was largely driven by higher revenues. Engineering, Research and Development. Engineering, research and development expenses increased by $1.1 million, or 35.8% to $4.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily due to increase in staffing and greater investments in customer delivery operations. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.4 million, or 33.7% to $5.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the same period of 2022. The increase on a year-over-year basis was mainly due to increase in sales personnel and new sales initiatives. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue during the first quarter of 2023 increased by 1.1% which is closely tied to increase in revenues. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased by 28.4% during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and reached $24.7 million compared to $19.3 million during the first quarter of 2022. The increase was mainly due to increase in stock-based compensation, increase in wages and bonuses, additional expenses from facilities, increase in amortization of intangibles, and transaction and transformation-related costs. Other Income/(Expenses), Net. During the three months ended March 31, 2023 the Company generated $1.7 million of other income compared to other expenses of $(0.7) million recorded during the same period of 2022. Our other income during the first quarter of 2023 comprised mainly of income generated by our money market funds which we started to receive during the third quarter of 2022. Provision for Income Tax. During the three months ended March 31, 2023 we recognized a provision for income tax of $3.7 million compared to $2.2 million in the same period of 2022. The difference in the tax provision was attributable mainly to Section 162(m) compensation deduction limitations and foreign inclusion adjustment. Net Loss. During three months ended March 31, 2023, we recognized net loss of $(8.0) million compared to $(2.7) million in the same period of 2022 due to the reasons stated above. Liquidity and Capital Resources Grid Dynamics measures liquidity in terms of its ability to fund the cash requirements of its business operations, including working capital needs, capital expenditures, contractual obligations, and other commitments with cash flows from operations and other sources of funding. Grid Dynamics current liquidity needs relate mainly to compensation and benefits of Grid Dynamics employees and contractors and capital expenditures for computer hardware and office furniture. Grid Dynamics ability to expand and grow its business will depend on many factors including its capital expenditure needs and the evolution of its operating cash flows. Grid Dynamics may need more cash resources due to changed business conditions or other developments, including investments or acquisitions. Grid Dynamics believes that its current cash position on its balance sheet of $258.4 million as of March 31, 2023 is sufficient to fund its currently expected levels of operating, investing and financing expenditures for a period of twelve months from the date of this filing. However, if Grid Dynamics resources are insufficient to satisfy its cash requirements, it may need to seek additional equity or debt financing, which may be subject to conditions outside of Grid Dynamics control and may not be available on terms acceptable to Grid Dynamics management or at all. The Companys cash is held with high-quality financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may, at times, exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. As of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 Grid Dynamics had cash and cash equivalents amounting to $258.4 million and $256.7 million respectively. Of this amount, $21.6 million and $16.8 million, respectively, was held outside the United States. Cash balances held in Ukraine as of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 combined equaled $3.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively. Cash held outside of the United States is used for the operational needs of the local entities and cash balances change with the expected operating needs of these entities. If we decide to remit funds from these countries to the United States in the future, whether in the form of inter-company dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to foreign withholding taxes. Additionally the Company holds cash deposits in countries where the banking sector remains periodically unstable, banking and other financial systems generally do not meet the banking standards of more developed markets, and bank deposits made by corporate entities are not insured. Such countries apart from Ukraine include Armenia, Moldova, Romania, India, and Mexico. The Company places its cash with financial institutions considered stable in the region and conducts ongoing evaluations of the credit worthiness of the financial institutions with which it operates. However, a banking crisis, bankruptcy or insolvency of banks that process or hold the Companys funds, may result in the loss Table of Contents of the Companys deposits or adversely affect the Companys ability to complete banking transactions, which could adversely affect the Companys business and financial condition. On March 15, 2022, we entered into a new agreement establishing a revolving credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent for the lenders. See Note 8 to the condensed consolidated financial statements. As of March 31, 2023 we had no outstanding debt under the credit facility. On April 18, 2023, we closed the acquisition of Next Sphere which involved payment of approximately $16.7 million (net of cash acquired) at closing. Cash Flows The following table summarizes Grid Dynamics cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 11,674 $ 9,517 Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,589) $ (1,653) Net cash (used in)/provided by financing activities $ (8,941) $ 1,363 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents $ 495 $ (283) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,639 $ 8,944 Cash, cash equivalents (beginning of period) $ 256,729 $ 144,364 Cash, cash equivalents (end of period) $ 258,368 $ 153,308 Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased by $2.2 million to $11.7 million from $9.5 million provided by in the same period of 2022, driven by higher cash operating profit (before non-cash depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation charges). Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of 2023 and 2022 remained relatively on the same level and comprised of capital expenditures for computer hardware, related equipment and software. Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $(8.9) million and reflected the tax withholding obligations due to issuance of shares in connection with vested awards. The decrease is mainly due to the tax withholding obligations which were $(7.1) million lower during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Simultaneously, the Company received proceeds from a revolving credit facility during the first quarter of 2022. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commitments Except for its credit support for the letter of credit and balances on corporate credit cards, Grid Dynamics does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements of the kind required to be disclosed under SEC rules and does not have any off-balance sheet or contingent commitments, except as described above with respect to operating leases in Note 10. As a result of analysis related to Grid Dynamics functional control of subcontractor GD AM, LLC (in Armenia) the subcontractors were determined to be a variable interest entity (VIE) and are therefore consolidated in Grid Dynamics financial statements. The assets and liabilities of these VIEs consist primarily of intercompany balances and transactions, all of which have been eliminated in consolidation. Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Pronouncements Recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements are described in Note 1 to Grid Dynamics condensed consolidated financial statements. Table of Contents