Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, beliefs and expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly in Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Overview Grindr Inc. (Grindr or the Company) is the worlds largest social network focused on the LGBTQ community with approximately 12.8 million MAUs (as defined below) and approximately 866 thousand Paying Users (as defined below) for the three months ended March 31, 2023. According to the Frost & Sullivan study commissioned by Grindr in 2021, Grindr is the largest and most popular gay mobile app in the world, with more MAUs than any other LGBTQ social networking applications. Our mission is to connect queer people with one another and the world. Since our inception in 2009 as a casual dating app for gay men, we have evolved into a global LGBTQ social network platform serving and addressing the needs of the entire LGBTQ queer community. We believe Grindr is a vital utility for the LGBTQ community and our users, as evidenced by our user engagement. Our users are some of the most engaged, spending, on average, 61 minutes per day on our platform for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to 10-20 minutes on dating apps, according to the Frost & Sullivan Study commissioned by Grindr, and 25-35 minutes on social networking apps, according to Statista. We have grown significantly over the years since our product launch. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, we generated $55.8 million and $43.5 million of revenue, respectively, representing a year-over-year growth of 28.3%. We had over 866 thousand Paying Users for the three months ended March 31, 2023 representing a year-over-year growth of 19.6% as compared to the same period in 2022. We have users in over 190 countries or territories and support 21 languages on our platform. On average, profiles on our platform sent over 317.7 and 294.1 million daily messages for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The Grindr mobile application ("Grindr App") is free to download and provides certain services and features to Grindr's users for free, and then offers a variety of additional controls and features for users who subscribe to our premium products and services, Grindr XTRA and Grindr Unlimited. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived directly from users in the form of recurring subscription fees, providing our users access to a bundle of features for the period of their subscription, or in the form of add-ons to access premium features. Leveraging strong brand awareness and our significant user network stemming from our first mover advantage in the LGBTQ social networking space, our historical growth in number of users has been driven primarily by word-of-mouth referrals and other organic means. While we have users in over 190 countries and territories, our core markets are currently North America and Europe, from which we derived 85.0% and 87.8% of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We intend to grow our user base and revenues by providing innovative and customized products and services to users in targeted geographic regions outside of our current core markets that have a large number of untapped potential users, favorable regulatory environments, and fast-growing economies. In addition to our revenue generated from subscription fees and premium add-ons, we also generate revenues from both first-party and third-party advertising. We provide advertisers with the unique opportunity to directly target and reach the LGBTQ community, which is characterized by a higher-than-average proportion of well-educated, brand-conscious individuals with substantial aggregate global purchasing power. Advertisers on our Grindr App span across many different industries, including healthcare, gaming, travel, automotive, and consumer goods. We offer our advertisers a diverse range of initiatives, such as in-app banners, full-screen interstitials, and other customized units, typically sold on an impressions basis. Additionally, we contract with a variety of third-party advertisement sales platforms to market and sell digital and mobile advertising inventory on our Grindr App. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to increase inventory with unique advertising units and offerings. 23 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Consolidated Results for the Three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, we generated: Revenues of $55.8 million and $43.5 million, respectively. The increase was $12.3 million, or 28.3%. Net (loss) income of $(32.9) million and $4.5 million, respectively. The decrease was $37.4 million, or 831.1%. Adjusted EBITDA of $22.0 million and $20.2 million, respectively. The increase was $1.8 million, or 8.9%. The Business Combination and Public Company Costs On May 9, 2022, Grindr, Tiga Acquisition Corp. (Tiga) and Tiga Merger Sub LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and direct and wholly-owned subsidiary of Tiga (Merger Sub I) entered into that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Original Merger Agreement), as amended by that certain First Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 5, 2022, by and among Grindr, Tiga, Merger Sub I and Tiga Merger Sub II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and direct and wholly-owned subsidiary of Tiga (Merger Sub II) (together with the Original Merger Agreement, the Merger Agreement) pursuant to which Grindr was merged with and into Merger Sub I, with Grindr as the surviving entity and a wholly owned subsidiary of Tiga (the First Merger), and promptly afterwards and as part of the same overall transaction as the First Merger, the merger of such surviving company with and into Merger Sub II, with Merger Sub II being the surviving entity and a wholly owned subsidiary of Tiga (the Second Merger), in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement. The transaction was completed on November 18, 2022 (the Business Combination). Grindr was deemed the accounting predecessor and the combined entity is the successor registrant with the SEC, meaning that Grindrs condensed consolidated financial statements for previous periods will be disclosed in Grindrs future periodic reports filed with the SEC. While the legal acquirer in the Merger Agreement was Tiga, for financial accounting and reporting purposes under U.S. GAAP, Legacy Grindr was the accounting acquirer and the Business Combination was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization. A reverse recapitalization (i.e., a capital transaction involving the issuance of stock by Tiga for the stock of Grindr) did not result in a new basis of accounting, and the consolidated financial statements of the combined entity represent the continuation of the consolidated financial statements of Legacy Grindr in many respects. Accordingly, the consolidated assets, liabilities and results of operations of Legacy Grindr became the historical consolidated financial statements of Grindr, and Tigas assets, liabilities, and results of operations were consolidated with Legacy Grindr beginning on the acquisition date. Operations prior to the Business Combination are presented as those of Legacy Grindr and will be presented as such in future reports. The net assets of Tiga were recognized at historical cost (which was consistent with carrying value), with no goodwill or other intangible assets recorded upon execution of the Business Combination. As a consequence of the Business Combination, Grindr became the successor to an SEC-registered and NYSE-listed company, which required Grindr to hire additional personnel and implement procedures and processes to address public company regulatory requirements and customary practices. Grindr has incurred and expects to incur additional annual expenses as a public company for, among other things, directors and officers liability insurance, director fees and additional internal and external accounting, legal and administrative resources, including increased audit and legal fees. The Company is classified as an Emerging Growth Company, as defined under the Jumpstart Our Business Act (the Jobs Act), which was enacted on April 5, 2012. As a result of the Business Combination, the Company is provided certain disclosure and regulatory relief, provided by the SEC, as an Emerging Growth Company and Smaller Reporting Company. Grindrs future results of consolidated operations and financial position may not be comparable to historical results as a result of the Business Combination. How We Generate Revenue We currently generate revenue from two revenue streamsDirect Revenue and Indirect Revenue. Direct Revenue is revenue generated by our users who pay for subscriptions or add-ons to access premium features. Indirect Revenue is generated by third parties who pay us for access to our users, such as advertising or partnerships. Direct Revenue is driven by our subscription revenue and premium add-ons. Our current subscription offerings are Grindr XTRA and Grindr Unlimited. Our subscription revenue has grown through organic user acquisition and the viral network effects enabled by our brand and market position. We utilize a freemium model to drive increased user acquisition, subscriber conversions, and monetization on the Grindr App. Many of our users choose to pay for premium features and functionalities, such as access to more user profiles, ad-free environments, advanced filters, unlimited blocks and favorites, 24 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the ability to send multiple photos at the same time, to enhance their user experience through our subscription products. Additionally, we offer premium add-on on a pay-per-use, or la carte, basis. By continuously introducing new premium features into our subscription offering and unique premium add-on, we continue to increase our Paying Users and average revenue per paying user. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, our Direct Revenue accounted for 86.2% and 83.6% of our total revenue, respectively. Indirect Revenue primarily consists of revenue generated by third parties who pay us for access to our users, including advertising, partnerships, merchandise, and other non-direct revenue. Our advertising revenue stream provides advertisers with the unique opportunity to directly target and reach the LGBTQ community, which generally consists of well-educated individuals with significant global purchasing power. We have attracted advertisers from a diverse array of industries, including healthcare, gaming, travel, automotive, and consumer goods. We offer a diverse range of advertising initiatives to advertisers, such as in-app banners, full-screen interstitials, rewarded video, and other customized units, typically on a CPM basis. We contract with a variety of third-party ad platforms to market and sell digital and mobile advertising inventory on our Grindr App. In exchange for facilitating the advertising process, we pay the relevant third-party ad platform a share of the revenue derived from the advertisements they place on the Grindr App. We intend to continue to grow our Indirect Revenue through advertising, partnerships, merchandise, and other non-direct initiatives. Operating and Financial Metrics Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except ARPPU and ARPU) 2023 2022 Key Operating Metrics Paying Users 866 724 Average Direct Revenue per Paying User ("ARPPU") $ 18.52 $ 16.76 Monthly Active Users ("MAUs") 12,826 11,806 Average Total Revenue per User ("ARPU") $ 1.45 $ 1.23 Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 Key Financial and Non-GAAP Metrics(1) Revenue $ 55,809 $ 43,530 Direct revenue $ 48,126 $ 36,398 Indirect revenue $ 7,683 $ 7,132 Net (loss) income $ (32,899) $ 4,501 Net (loss) income margin (58.9) % 10.3 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 21,999 $ 20,159 Adjusted EBITDA margin 39.4 % 46.3 % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,501 $ 13,962 (1)See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsNon-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and a reconciliation of net (loss) income to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin. Paying Users. A Paying User is a user that has purchased or renewed a Grindr subscription and/or purchased a premium add-on on the Grindr App. We calculate Paying Users as a monthly average, by counting the number of Paying Users in each month and then dividing by the number of months in the relevant measurement period. Paying Users is a primary metric that we use to judge the health of our business and our ability to convert users to purchasers of our premium features. We are focused on building new products and services and improving on existing products and services, as well as launching new pricing tiers and subscription plans, to drive payer conversion. ARPPU. We calculate average revenue per Paying User (ARPPU) based on Direct Revenue in any measurement period, divided by Paying Users in such a period divided by the number of months in the period. 25 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MAUs. A MAU, or Monthly Active User, is a unique device that demonstrated activity on the Grindr App over the course of the specified period. Activity on the app is defined as opening the app, chatting with another user, or viewing the cascade of other users. We also exclude devices where all linked profiles have been banned for spam. We calculate MAUs as a monthly average, by counting the number of MAUs in each month and then dividing by the number of months in the relevant period. We use MAUs to measure the number of active users on our platform on a monthly basis and to understand the pool of users we can potentially convert to Paying Users. ARPU. We calculate average total revenue per user (ARPU) based on Total Revenue in any measurement period, divided by our MAUs in such a period divided by the number of months in the period. As we expand our monetization product offerings, develop new verticals, and grow our community of users, we believe we can continue to increase our ARPU. Non-GAAP Profitability We use net (loss) income and net cash provided by operating activities to assess our profitability and liquidity, respectively. In addition to net (loss) income and net cash provided by operating activities, we use Adjusted EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP measure of profitability. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net (loss) income excluding income tax provision, interest expense, net of interest income from the related party loan to Catapult GP II, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, and non-core expenses/losses (gains). Non-core expenses/losses (gains) include transaction-related costs, litigation-related costs, management fees, change in fair value of warrant liability and other expense, which includes asset impairments. Adjusted EBITDA Margin represents Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are key measures we use to assess our financial performance and are also used for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are helpful to investors, analysts, and other interested parties because they can assist in providing a more consistent and comparable overview of our operations across our historical financial periods. In addition, these measures are frequently used by analysts, investors, and other interested parties to evaluate and assess performance. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsNon-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and a reconciliation of net (loss) income to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin. Key Factors Affecting our Performance Our results of operations and financial condition have been, and will continue to be, affected by a number of factors that present significant opportunities for us but also pose risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in Part I, Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Growth in User Base and Paying Users We acquire new users through investments in marketing and brand as well as through word of mouth from existing users and others. We convert these users to Paying Users by introducing premium features which maximize the probability of developing meaningful connections, improve the user experience, and provide more control. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, we had approximately 866 thousand and 724 thousand Paying Users, respectively, representing an increase of 19.6% period over period. We grow Paying Users by acquiring new users and converting new and existing users to purchasers of one of our subscription plans or in-app offerings. As we scale and our community grows larger, we are able to facilitate more meaningful interactions as a result of the wider selection of potential connections. This in turn increases our brand awareness and increases conversion to one of our paid products and services. Our revenue growth primarily depends on growth in Paying Users. While we believe we are in the early days of our opportunity, at some point we may face challenges increasing our Paying Users, including competition from alternative products and services and lower adoption of certain product features. Expansion into New Geographic Markets We are focused on growing our platform globally, including through entering new markets and investing in under-penetrated markets. Expanding into new geographies will require increased costs related to marketing, as well as localization of product features and services. Potential risks to our expansion into new geographies will include competition and compliance with foreign laws and regulations. As we expand into certain new geographies, we may see an 26 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations increase in users who prefer to access premium features through our add-on options rather than through our paid subscription packages, which could impact our ARPPU. We may also see a lower propensity for users to pay as we enter certain new markets with additional competitors and cost and revenue profiles. Growth in ARPPU We have developed a sophisticated understanding of the value our users derive from becoming Paying Users on our platform. We continually develop new monetization features and improve existing features in order to increase adoption of premium add-ons and our subscription programs. Many variables will impact our ARPPU, including the product mix, the geographic mix, and the mix between subscription and add-on revenue. Our pricing is in local currency and may vary between markets. As foreign currency exchange rates change, translation of the statements of operations into U.S. dollars could negatively impact revenue and distort year-over-year comparability of operating results. To the extent our ARPPU growth slows, our revenue growth will become increasingly dependent on our ability to increase our Paying Users. Investing in Growth While Driving Long-Term Profitability Key investment areas for our platform include machine learning capabilities, including continually improving our technology; features that prioritize security and privacy; and new offerings that add incremental value to Paying Users. Attracting and Retaining Talent Our business relies on our ability to attract and retain our talent, including engineers, data scientists, product designers and product developers. As of March 31, 2023, we had 188 full-time employees; of which, approximately 59.0% work in engineering and product development. We believe that people want to work at a company that has purpose and aligns with their personal values, and therefore our ability to recruit talent is aided by our mission and brand reputation. We compete for talent within the technology industry. Factors Affecting the Comparability of Our Results General macroeconomic trends and events. General economic trends and events, including pandemics, demographic changes, employment rates, job growth, user confidence, and disposable income, have a substantial effect on both our users ability and desire to purchase premium subscriptions and advertisers ability and willingness to advertise on our network, thereby affecting both of our major revenue streams and our financial results over time and the year-over-year comparability of operating results. For instance, we believe the COVID-19 pandemic was a factor that suppressed user activity, particularly between March 2020 to July 2020, when in-person engagement across the markets in which we operate was severely impacted, and caused some users to be less active or cancel their subscriptions. Governmental regulations. New governmental policies and regulations can affect our business in meaningful ways, even when such policies and regulations are not specifically related to the LGBTQ community. For example, the implementation of GDPR in Europe has given end-users more control over how their data and personal information are utilized and has thereby adversely affected our European advertisers ability to specifically target these users. This new regulation has had a stagnating effect on our indirect revenue growth trajectory in Europe. The implementation of similar regulations in other regions of the world, or new regulations that affect our ability to monetize the data received from our users, could have a significant impact on our operating results and ability to grow our business. Seasonal variability and general advertising demand. Our ability to maintain consistently high advertiser demand for our platform can be affected by seasonal trends and temporary trends in advertisers appetites to engage with our users or our brand. For example, events that result in temporary positive or negative publicity for our company (even if unfounded) may play a significant role in our advertisers desire to continue to advertise on our platform. Further, general economic conditions may lead to changes in advertising spending in general, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Such fluctuations in advertising demand are often unpredictable and likely temporary, but could have a significant impact on the financial condition of our business. International market pricing and changes in foreign exchange rates. The Grindr App has MAUs in over 190 countries and territories. Our international revenues represented 40.4% and 36.1% of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We vary our pricing to align with local market conditions and our international businesses typically earn revenues in local currencies. In addition, some of the platforms we work with utilize internally generated foreign exchange rates that may differ from other foreign exchange rates, which could impact our results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Components of Our Results of Operations Revenues We currently generate revenue from two revenue streamsDirect Revenue and Indirect Revenue. Direct Revenue is revenue generated by our users who pay for subscriptions or premium add-ons to access premium features. Indirect Revenue is generated by third parties who pay us for access to our users, such as advertising and partnerships. As we continue to expand and diversify our revenue streams, we anticipate increasing monetization from premium add-ons, contributing to increase in revenues over time. Direct Revenues. Direct Revenues are reported gross of fees for subscriptions and premium add-ons as we are the primary party obligated in our transactions with customers and therefore, we act as the principal. Our subscription revenues are generated through the sale of monthly subscriptions that are currently offered in one, three, six and twelve-month subscription periods. Subscribers pay in advance, primarily through third party platforms, including iTunes, Google Play, and Stripe, according to our terms and conditions. Subscription revenues, net of taxes and chargebacks, are recognized ratably over the term of the subscription. Indirect Revenues. Indirect Revenues primarily consists of revenue generated by third parties who pay us for access to our users, including advertising, partnerships, and merchandise. Our advertising operations provide advertisers with the unique opportunity to directly target and reach the LGBTQ community, which generally consists of well-educated individuals with significant global purchasing power. We have attracted advertisers from a diverse array of industries, including healthcare, gaming, travel, automotive, and consumer goods. We offer a diverse range of advertising initiatives to advertisers, such as in-app banners, full-screen interstitials, rewarded video, and other customized units, typically on a CPM basis. We contract with a variety of third-party ad platforms to market and sell digital and mobile advertising inventory on our Grindr App. In exchange for facilitating the advertising process, we pay the relevant third-party ad platform a share of the revenue derived from the advertisements they place on the Grindr App. Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the distribution fees which we pay to Apple and Google, infrastructure costs associated with supporting the Grindr App and our advertising efforts, which stem largely from our use of Amazon Web Services, and costs associated with content moderation, which involve our outsourced teams in Honduras and the Philippines ensuring that users are complying with our community standards. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses consists primarily of sales and marketing expenditures, compensation and other employee-related costs for our employees, costs related to outside consultants and general administrative expenses, including for our facilities, information technology and infrastructure support. We plan to continue to expand sales and marketing efforts to attract new users, retain existing users and increase monetization of both our new and existing users. Product Development Expense. Product development expense consists primarily of employee-related and contractor costs for personnel engaged in the design, development, testing and enhancement of product offerings, features, and related technology. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation is primarily related to computers, equipment, furniture, fixtures, and leasehold improvements. Amortization is primarily related to capitalized software, acquired definite-lived intangible assets (customer relationships, technology, etc.) as well as trademarks, patents, and copyrights. Other (Expense) Income Interest (Expense) Income, Net. Interest (expense) income, net consists of interest income received on related party loans and interest expense incurred in connection with our long-term debt. Other (Expense) Income, Net. Other (expense) income, net consists of realized exchange rate gains or losses and unrealized exchange rate gains or losses. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability The change in fair value of warrant liability represents the change in fair value of our public and private warrants. 28 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Income Tax Provision Income tax provision represents the income tax expense associated with our operations based on the tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Foreign jurisdictions have different statutory tax rates than the United States. Our effective tax rates will vary depending on the relative proportion of foreign to domestic income, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in thousands) 2023 % of Total Revenue 2022 % of Total Revenue Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) Revenue $ 55,809 100.0 % $ 43,530 100.0 % Operating costs and expenses Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 14,815 26.5 % 11,701 26.9 % Selling, general and administrative expense 18,945 33.9 % 10,378 23.8 % Product development expense 5,506 9.9 % 3,647 8.4 % Depreciation and amortization 7,952 14.2 % 9,026 20.7 % Total operating costs and expenses 47,218 84.6 % 34,752 79.8 % Income from operations 8,591 15.4 % 8,778 20.2 % Other expense Interest expense, net (10,793) -19.3 % (2,956) -6.8 % Other income (expense), net 123 0.2 % (68) -0.2 % Change in fair value of warrant liability (15,317) -27.4 % % Total other expense (25,987) -46.6 % (3,024) -6.9 % Net (loss) income before income tax (17,396) -31.2 % 5,754 13.2 % Income tax provision 15,503 27.8 % 1,253 2.9 % Net (loss) income and comprehensive (loss) income $ (32,899) -58.9 % $ 4,501 10.3 % Net (loss) income per share: $ (0.19) $ 0.03 Revenues Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 were $55.8 million and $43.5 million, respectively. The $12.3 million increase, or 28.3%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022 was due to an increase in Direct Revenue of $11.7 million, or 32.1%, from $36.4 million to $48.1 million. The increase in Direct Revenue was driven by both an increase in ARPPU and Paying Users. ARPPU increased by 10.5%, or $1.76, to $18.52 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $16.76 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Our ARPPU increased as a result of improved product mix with higher-priced subscription products and an increase in la carte purchases. We expect ARPPU to fluctuate in the near-term as we continue to test different subscription options across different price points and durations. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, Paying Users increased by 142 thousand from approximately 724 thousand to approximately 866 thousand, as we increased Paying User penetration of our overall user base as a result of launching new premium add-ons and features to drive greater subscription conversion. The increase in Indirect Revenue was primarily driven by year-over-year growth in advertising revenue due to an increase in the number of our advertising partners as of March 31, 2023 as compared to March 31, 2022. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, revenues from operations in the United States increased by $5.4 million, or 19.5%. During this same period, revenues from operations in the United Kingdom increased by $0.9 million, or 27.7%, and revenues from operations in the remainder of the world increased by $5.9 million, or 47.8%. The reasons for these changes are consistent with revenue changes previously noted. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was $14.8 million and $11.7 million, respectively. The $3.1 million increase, or 26.5%, was primarily due to growth in distribution fees (consistent with direct 29 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations revenue growth) of $2.4 million, and increased infrastructure costs associated with our primary information systems vendors of $0.6 million. Selling, general and administrative expense Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was $18.9 million and $10.4 million, respectively. The $8.5 million increase, or 81.7%, was primarily due to increases in stock-based compensation expense of $2.5 million, full-time employee-related expenses associated with headcount growth of $1.8 million, and spending for outside service fees for audit, tax, legal, recruiting, and other consulting services of $2.8 million. The remaining increase was also due to higher branding and marketing costs, as well as other general and administrative expenses, such as general liability insurance, office software, and business travel and entertainment. Product development expense Product development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was $5.5 million and $3.6 million, respectively. The $1.9 million increase, or 52.8%, was primarily due to increased full-time employee-related expenses primarily associated with headcount growth. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was $8.0 million and $9.0 million, respectively. The $1.0 million decrease, or 11.1%, was primarily due to acquired intangibles amortization from our acquisition in June 2020 for which certain intangible assets were amortized under an accelerated amortization schedule, with higher amounts expensed in 2022. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was $10.8 million and $3.0 million, respectively. The $7.8 million increase, or 260.0%, was primarily due to increased interest expense relating primarily to higher principal balances and a higher interest rate under our credit agreement. Interest expense including the amortization of debt issuance costs related to the credit agreement for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was $11.2 million and $3.6 million, respectively. This was partially offset by the interest income from the related party loan to Catapult GP II, which for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was $0.7 million and $0.3 million, respectively. See Note 4 and Note 6 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was $0.1 million and $(0.1) million, respectively. Change in fair value of warrant liability Change in fair value of warrant liability represents the change in the fair value of our Warrants between measurement dates. The Warrants remained unexercised and were remeasured to fair value of $33.3 million as of March 31, 2023, resulting in a loss of $15.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 recognized in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive (loss) income. Income tax provision Income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was $15.5 million and $1.3 million, respectively. The $14.2 million increase, or 1,092.3%, was primarily due to the tax effect on the change in fair value of warrant liability, the change in valuation allowance and nondeductible officer compensation, the foreign derived intangible income deduction, and the research and development credit. Our effective tax rates in fiscal 2023 and future periods may fluctuate, as a result of changes in our forecasts where losses cannot be benefited due to the existence of valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets, changes in actual results versus our estimates, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. Net (loss) income Net (loss) income for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was $(32.9) million and $4.5 million, respectively. Net (loss) income decreased by $37.4 million for the reasons explained above. 30 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use Adjusted EBITDA, as described below, to understand and evaluate our core operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures, which may differ from similarly titled measures used by other companies, is presented to enhance investors overall understanding of our financial performance and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA The primary financial measure we use is Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as net (loss) income, before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net (loss) income excluding income tax provision, interest expense, net of interest income from the related party loan to Catapult GP II, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and non-core expenses/losses (gains), including transaction-related costs, litigation-related costs, management fees, change in fair value of warrant liability and other expense, which includes asset impairments. Our management uses this measure internally to evaluate the performance of our business and this measure is one of the primary metrics by which our internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. We exclude the above items as some are non-cash in nature, and others are non-recurring that they may not be representative of normal operating results. This non-GAAP financial measure adjusts for the impact of items that we do not consider indicative of the operational performance of our business. While we believe that this non-GAAP financial measure is useful in evaluating our business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for the related financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA for a period by revenue for the same period. The following table presents the reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 Reconciliation of net income to adjusted EBITDA Net (loss) income $ (32,899) $ 4,501 Interest expense, net 10,793 2,956 Income tax provision 15,503 1,253 Depreciation and amortization 7,952 9,026 Transaction-related costs (1) 7 Litigation related costs (2) 1,211 1,504 Stock-based compensation expense 3,341 734 Management fees (3) 178 Change in fair value of warrant liability (4) 15,317 Other expense (5) 781 Adjusted EBITDA $ 21,999 $ 20,159 Revenue $ 55,809 $ 43,530 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 39.4 % 46.3 % _________________ (1)Transaction-related costs consist of legal, tax, accounting, consulting, and other professional fees related to the Business Combination and other potential acquisitions, that are non-recurring in nature. (2)Litigation related costs primarily represent external legal fees associated with the outstanding litigation or regulatory matters such as the potential Datatilsynet fine or the CFIUS review of the Business Combination, which are unrelated to Grindrs core ongoing business operations. (3)Management fees represent administrative costs associated with San Vicente Holdings LLC's ("SVE") administrative role in managing financial relationships and providing directive on strategic and operational decisions, which ceased to continue after the Business Combination. (4)Change in fair value of warrant liability relates to our warrants that were remeasured to fair value resulting in a loss of $15.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. (5)Other expense primarily represents costs incurred from reorganization events that are unrelated to Grindr's core ongoing business operations, including severance and employment related costs. 31 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, Adjusted EBITDA increased by $1.8 million, or 8.9%, which was primarily due to an increase in revenue, partially offset by higher operating expenses (excluding one-time, non-recurring, and other expenses, as outlined in the Adjusted EBITDA definition). Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 The following table summarizes our total cash and cash equivalents: Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 Cash, and cash equivalents, including restricted cash (as of the end of period) $ 35,229 $ 29,176 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 8,501 $ 13,962 Investing activities (1,493) (1,115) Financing activities 18,104 (841) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 25,112 $ 12,006 Cash flows provided by operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities are primarily dependent on our revenues affected by timing of receipts from subscription and advertising sales. It is also dependent on managing our operating expenses, such as salaries and employee-related costs, selling and marketing expenses, transaction costs, and other general and administrative expenses. We expect to maintain strong operating cash flows given our historical performance. We will continue to invest in the right resources to support longer term profitable growth. Our operating cash flows should continue to cover our operating and financing costs. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, our operations provided $8.5 million of cash, which was primarily attributable to net loss of $32.9 million, an increase of $8.0 million in depreciation and amortization, an increase of $15.3 million in the fair value change in warrant liability and an increase of $1.8 million in other non-cash adjustments. Cash flows provided by operating activities were further attributable to an increase of $16.3 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, our operations provided $14.0 million of cash, which was primarily attributable to net (loss) income of $4.5 million, an increase of $9.0 million in depreciation and amortization and an increase of $0.8 million in other non-cash adjustments. Cash flows provided by operating activities were further attributable to a decrease of $1.2 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash flows used in investing activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 consisted primarily of additions to capitalized software of $1.5 million. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 consisted primarily of additions to capitalized software of $1.0 million. We expect our capital investments to increase over time as we further enhance our platform and product. However, historically, this has not been significant, as it has primarily comprised of capitalization of engineering labor costs and computer hardware costs for employees. Other increases could come from potential acquisitions or other platform extensions. Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 consisted of consisted of $19.4 million in proceeds from repayment of a promissory note to a member and related interest (see Note 4 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information), $1.0 million in proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and $1.1 million related to the principal paydown of our long-term debt. 32 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 consisted of $0.1 million in proceeds from exercise of employee stock options, $1.0 million related to the principal paydown of our long-term debt. Sources of Liquidity Since our inception, we have financed our operations and capital expenditures primarily through cash flows generated by operations, a senior secured credit facility, and the private sales of equity securities. To the extent existing cash and cash from operations are not sufficient to fund future activities, we may need to raise additional funds. We may seek to raise additional funds through equity, equity-linked or debt financings. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of indebtedness, such indebtedness may have rights that are senior to holders of our equity securities and could contain covenants that restrict operations. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We may enter into investment or acquisition transactions in the future, which could require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness, or use cash resources. Financing Arrangements As of March 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $33.8 million. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, cash flows generated by operations and borrowings under our senior secured credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the next 12 months. We believe we will meet longer term expected future cash requirements and obligations through a combination of cash flows generated by operations and available funds from our cash and cash equivalents. However, this determination is based upon internal projections and is subject to changes in market and business conditions. Fortress Credit Corp. Loan On June 10, 2020, Grindr Gap LLC (f/k/a San Vicente Gap LLC), Grindr Capital LLC (f/k/a San Vicente Capital LLC) (the Borrower), Fortress Credit Corp. (Fortress) and the other credit parties and lenders party thereto entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), which permitted the Borrower to borrow up to $192.0 million through a senior secured credit facility (the "Initial Term Loan"). The full amount of $192.0 million was drawn on June 10, 2020. When amounts are repaid, they may not be reborrowed. The Borrower, Fortress and the other credit parties and lenders entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement on June 13, 2022, which permitted the Borrower to borrow an additional $60.0 million through several supplemental term loans (the Supplemental Term Loans). The full amount of the Supplemental Term Loans was drawn on June 13, 2022. Amounts paid or repaid in respect of the Supplemental Term Loans may not be reborrowed. Concurrently with entering into Amendment No. 3 to the Credit Agreement, the aggregate remaining principal balance on the Initial Term Loan and Supplemental Term Loans, totaled $197.9 million, and was split into two separate term loans, of which $30.9 million is scheduled to mature on June 10, 2025 and $167.0 million is scheduled to mature on November 14, 2027. The Borrower, Fortress and the other credit parties and lenders entered into Amendment No. 3 to the Credit Agreement on November 14, 2022, which permitted the Borrower to borrow an additional $170.8 million through several supplemental term loans (the Supplemental Term Loans II). The full amount of the Supplemental Term Loans II was drawn on November 14, 2022 (in the amount of $140.8 million) and November 17, 2022 (in the amount of $30.0 million). The maturity date for the $140.8 million loan is November 14, 2027 and the maturity date for the $30.0 million loan is May 17, 2024. The Borrower is a direct subsidiary of Grindr Gap, LLC, which is a direct subsidiary of Legacy Grindr. Legacy Grindr is a direct subsidiary of Grindr Inc. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by all of the subsidiaries of Legacy Grindr (other than the Borrower and Grindr Canada Inc.) and are collateralized by the capital stock and/or certain assets of all of the subsidiaries of Legacy Grindr. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are repayable in full on various dates ranging from May 17, 2024 to November 14, 2027 based on the drawdown dates of the loans with quarterly mandatory principal repayments equal to 0.5% of the original principal amount of the relevant loans. The Borrower is also required (among other things) to make mandatory prepayments of the Credit Agreement equal to a defined percentage rate (determined based on our leverage ratio) of excess cash flow. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are index rate loans or Term SOFR loans, at the Borrowers discretion. Index rate loans bear interest at the index rate plus applicable margin based on the consolidated total leverage ratio, currently 7.0%. Term SOFR loans bear interest at Term SOFR (as defined in the Credit Agreement) plus an applicable margin based on the consolidated total leverage ratio, currently 8.0%, in each case, except for $30.0 million of the Supplemental Term Loans II for which the applicable margin is currently 3.2% for index rate loans and 4.2% for Term SOFR loans. 33 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The obligations under the Credit Agreement are subject to acceleration at the election of the required lenders during the continuance of any event of default. A default interest rate of an additional 2.0% per annum will apply on all outstanding obligations after the occurrence of an event of default. The Credit Agreement includes restrictive non-financial and financial covenants, including the requirement to maintain a total leverage ratio no greater than a specified level, currently 4.50:1.00. See Note 6 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information. Contractual obligations and other uses of cash Our principal commitments have not materially changed from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, which consist of obligations under the Credit Agreement and operating leases for office space. See Note 6 and Note 7 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information. Off-balance sheet arrangements We have no significant off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results reported in future periods could differ from our estimates. There have been no material changes to our discussion of critical accounting estimates from those set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information. 34 Table of Contents