ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Tiga Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to Tiga Sponsor LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated in the Cayman Islands on July 27, 2020 formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, amalgamation, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or other similar Business Combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash derived from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, the exercise in full of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our shares, debt or a combination of cash, shares and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any operating revenues to date. Our only activities from inception through March 31, 2021 were organizational activities and those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, after the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our initial Business Combination. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held after the Initial Public Offering. We expect that we will incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with searching for, and completing, a Business Combination. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had a net income of $5,572,126, which consisted of a gain from change in fair value of warrant liability (Public Warrants and Initial Private Placement Warrants) of $7,328,958, a loss in change in fair value of FPA liability of $1,603,769 and interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $31,721, offset by operating costs of $184,784 which consisted of $70,402 in legal and professional fees, $37,295 in accounting related costs, $30,000 in administrative support fees, $31,250 in insurance costs, and $15,837 in miscellaneous costs. Going Concern In connection with the Companys assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-15, Disclosures of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, the Company has until November 27, 2021 to consummate a Business Combination. It is uncertain that the Company will be able to consummate a Business Combination by this time. However, if the Company anticipates that it may not be able to consummate a Business Combination by November 27, 2021, it may, by resolution of the board if requested by the Sponsor, extend the period of time to consummate a Business Combination up to two times, each by an additional 6 months (until November 27, 2022 to complete a Business Combination), subject to the Sponsor purchasing additional private placement warrants, such extended deadline, the Contractual Redemption Date. If a Business Combination is not consummated by this date and an extension not requested by the Sponsor, there will be a mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution of the Company. Management has determined that the mandatory liquidation, should a Business Combination not occur and an extension is not requested by the Sponsor, and potential subsequent dissolution raises substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should the Company be required to liquidate after November 27, 2021. 16 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2021, we had cash of $1,021,837. Until the consummation of the Public Offering, our only source of liquidity was an initial purchase of ordinary shares by the Sponsor and loans from our Sponsor. On November 27, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 27,600,000 Units, which included the full exercise by the underwriters of their over-allotment option in the amount of 3,600,000 Units, at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $276,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 10,280,000 Initial Private Placement Warrants to the Sponsor at a price of $1.00 per private placement warrant generating gross proceeds of $10,280,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the full exercise of the over-allotment option, and the Initial Private Placement, a total of $278,760,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $15,736,649 in transaction costs, including $5,520,000 of underwriting fees, $9,660,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $556,649 of other offering costs. On May 18, 2021, the Company announced the approval and extension of the time period to consummate a Business Combination and the approval of the issuance and sale of certain private placement warrants in connection therewith. On May 20, 2021, the required deposit of $2,760,000 was placed into the Trust Account and on May 25, 2021, the Company issued and sold to the Sponsor 2,760,000 Extension Private Placement Warrants. The total amount of outstanding Private Placement Warrants is 13,040,000 and the total deposits into the Trust Account have been $281,520,000 ($10.20 per public share). We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account, which interest shall be net of taxes payable and excluding deferred underwriting commissions, to complete our Business Combination. We may withdraw interest from the Trust Account to pay taxes, if any. To the extent that our share capital or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete a Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we may repay such loaned amounts out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to us. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts, but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $2,000,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant, at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for overhead expenses and related services provided to the Company. We began incurring these fees on November 23, 2020 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of a Business Combination and the Companys liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $9,660,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. We entered into a private placement warrants purchase agreement, dated as of November 23, 2020, with the Sponsor which provides that at the option of the Sponsor, on the dates that are six, 12 and 18 months, respectively from the closing date of the Initial Public Offering, the Company shall issue and sell to the Sponsor, its affiliates or permitted designees and the Sponsor shall purchase from the Company, an additional 2,760,000, private placement warrants at a price of $1.00 per private placement warrant for an aggregate purchase price of $2,760,000. 17 Table of Contents We entered into a FPA with the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor which provides for the purchase by the Sponsor of an aggregate of 5,000,000 Class A ordinary shares, plus an aggregate of 2,500,000 forward purchase warrants to purchase one Class A ordinary share at $11.50 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $50,000,000, or $10.00 per Class A ordinary share, in a private placement to close prior to or concurrently with the closing of a Business Combination. Pursuant to the FPA, the forward purchaser was also granted an option to subscribe, in the forward purchasers sole discretion, for an additional 5,000,000 Class A ordinary shares plus an additional 2,500,000 redeemable warrants to purchase one Class A ordinary share at $11.50 per share, for an additional purchase price of $50,000,000, or $10.00 per Class A ordinary share, in one or multiple private placements to close prior to or concurrently with the closing of our Initial Business Combination. The obligations under the FPA do not depend on whether any Class A ordinary shares are redeemed by the Public Shareholders. The forward purchase warrants will have the same terms as the Public Warrants issued as part of the Units. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We identified the following critical accounting policies: Warrant and Forward Purchase Agreement (FPA) Liability The Company accounts for the Warrants and FPA in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 815-40, under which the Warrants and FPA do not meet the criteria for equity treatment and must be recorded as liabilities. Accordingly, the Company classifies the Warrants and FPA as liabilities at their fair value and adjust the Warrants and FPA to fair value at each reporting period. These liabilities are subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in the statement of operations. Changes in the estimated fair value of the warrants are recognized as a non-cash gain or loss on the statements of operations. The Public Warrants for periods where no observable trade price was available are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. For periods subsequent to the detachment of the Public Warrants from the Units, the Public Warrant quoted market price was used as the fair value as of each relevant date. The fair value of the Private Placement Warrants was determined using a Black-Scholes-Merton model. The committed units of the FPA are valued using a discounted valuation of a reconstructed unit price and the optional units of the FPA are valued using the same reconstructed unit price within a Black-Scholes-Merton model framework. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Class A Ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that features redemption rights that is either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our balance sheets. Net Income (Loss) per Ordinary Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Net income per ordinary share, basic and diluted for Class A ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account by the weighted average number of Class A ordinary shares outstanding since original issuance. Net loss per ordinary share, basic and diluted for Class B ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net income (loss), less income attributable to Class A ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of Class B ordinary shares outstanding for the period presented. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier. 18 Table of Contents