ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Tiga Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to Tiga Sponsor LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated in the Cayman Islands on July 27, 2020 formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, amalgamation, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or other similar Business Combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash derived from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, the exercise in full of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our shares, debt or a combination of cash, shares and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Recent Developments Business Combination On May 9, 2022, Tiga entered into an agreement and plan of merger with Tiga Merger Sub LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Tiga (Merger Sub), and Grindr (as it may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the Merger Agreement). The Merger Agreement provides that, among other things and upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, the following transactions will occur (together with the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including the Domestication (as defined below), the Business Combination Transaction): (i) at the closing of the Business Combination Transaction (the Closing), in accordance with the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (DGCL), Merger Sub will merge with and into Grindr, the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub will cease and Grindr will be the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Tiga (the Merger); and (ii) as a result of the Merger, among other things, (x) each series X ordinary units and each series Y preferred units (Grindr Unit) that is issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (as defined in the Merger Agreement) shall be cancelled and converted into the right to receive a number of shares of New Grindr Common Stock (as defined below) equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Aggregate Merger Consideration (defined below), by (ii) the number of Aggregate Fully Diluted Grindr Units (as defined below) (Exchange Ratio); (y) each option to purchase series X ordinary units granted under the Incentive Plan [(as defined in the Merger Agreement)] (Grindr Option) that is then outstanding and unexercised shall be converted into the right to receive an option relating to shares of New Grindr Common Stock upon substantially the same terms and conditions as are in effect with respect to such Grindr Option immediately prior to the Effective Time, including with respect to vesting and termination-related provisions; and (z) each Grindr Warrant (as defined below) that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into the right to receive a warrant relating to shares of New Grindr Common Stock with substantially the same terms and conditions as were applicable to such warrant (excluding Grindr Options) to purchase Grindr Units (Grindr Warrant). Aggregate Merger Consideration means a number of shares of New Grindr Common Stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the sum of (a) the Grindr Valuation (as defined below) plus (b) the aggregate exercise price of all in-the-money Grindr Options and all in-the-money Grindr Warrants that are issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time by (ii) $10.00; and Aggregate Fully Diluted Grindr Units means, without duplication, the aggregate number of Grindr Units that are (i) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and (ii) issuable upon, or subject to, the settlement of all in-the-money Grindr Options and all-in-the-money Grindr Warrants (whether or not then vested or exercisable) that are issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time. 18 Table of Contents Under the Merger Agreement, Tiga has agreed to acquire all Grindr Units for (i) the Grindr Valuation plus (ii) the aggregate exercise price of all in-the-money Grindr Options and all in-the-money Grindr Warrants that are issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time the in the form of New Grindr Common Stock (at $10 per share) to be paid at the effective time of the Business Combination. Grindr Valuation means $1,584,000,000 plus the amount, if any, by which the Permitted Distribution Amount exceeds the Grindr Distribution Amount; Permitted Distribution Amount means $370,000,000 and Grindr Distribution Amount means the actual amount of any cash dividend or other dividend or distribution in respect of Grindr Units or equity interests Grindr makes, declares, sets aside, establishes a record date for or makes a payment date for between the date hereof and the Effective Time, provided that the amount of any such dividend or distribution may not exceed the Permitted Distribution Amount. The Special Committee of Tiga has unanimously approved and declared advisable the Merger Agreement and the Business Combination. In addition, the Board of Directors of Tiga (the Board) has unanimously (i) approved and declared advisable the Merger Agreement and the Business Combination and (ii) resolved to recommend approval of the Merger Agreement and related matters by the shareholders of Tiga. Prior to the Closing, subject to the approval of Tigas shareholders, and in accordance with the DGCL, Cayman Islands Companies Law (2020 Revision) (the CICL) and Tigas Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association (as may be amended from time to time, the Cayman Constitutional Documents), Tiga will effect a deregistration under the CICL and a domestication under Section 388 of the DGCL with the Secretary of State of Delaware), pursuant to which Tigas jurisdiction of incorporation will be changed from the Cayman Islands to the State of Delaware (the Domestication). In connection with the Domestication, Tiga, as the continuing entity in the Domestication, will be renamed Grindr Inc. As used herein, New Grindr refers to Tiga after the Domestication, including after such change of name. In connection with the Domestication, (i) each of the then issued and outstanding Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 per share, of Tiga (the Tiga Class A Ordinary Shares), will convert automatically, on a one-for-one basis, into a share of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share of New Grindr (after its Domestication) (the New Grindr Common Stock), (ii) each of the then issued and outstanding Class B ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 per share, of Tiga (the Tiga Class B Ordinary Shares), will convert automatically, on a one-for-one basis, into a share of New Grindr Common Stock, (iii) each then issued and outstanding warrant of Tiga will convert automatically into a warrant to acquire one share of New Grindr Common Stock (New Grindr Warrant), pursuant to the Warrant Agreement, dated November 23, 2020, between Tiga and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and (iv) each then issued and outstanding unit of Tiga will separate and convert automatically into one share of New Grindr Common Stock and one-fourth of one New Grindr Warrant. A&R Forward Purchase Agreement On May 9, 2022, concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, Tiga entered into the Amended and Restated Forward Purchase Agreement (the A&R Forward Purchase Agreement) with Tiga Sponsor LLC, a Cayman Islands limited liability company (the Sponsor) which provides for the purchase by the Forward Purchase Investors (as defined below) of an aggregate of 5,000,000 forward purchase shares, plus an aggregate of 2,500,000 forward purchase warrants to purchase one share of New Grindr Common Stock at $11.50 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $50,000,000, or $10.00 per share, in a private placement to close prior to or concurrently with the Closing. Convertible Promissory Note On May 12, 2022, the Sponsor advanced an aggregate amount of $430,000 to the Company on account of the Note (as defined below). As of the date of this quarterly report, the principal balance of the Note totaled an aggregate amount of $1,480,000 and the amount available for withdrawal under the Note totaled $520,000. For additional information on our recent developments, see Note 10 to our unaudited condensed financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Transaction Support Agreement On May 9, 2022, concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, Grindr, Tiga, Merger Sub, the Sponsor and the directors of Tiga entered into the Transaction Support Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Transaction Support Agreement, the Sponsor and the directors of Tiga agreed to, among other things, vote or cause its shares to vote in favor of the Business Combination Proposal (as defined in the Merger Agreement) and the other proposals included in the accompanying proxy statement/prospectus. Unitholder Support Agreement In connection with the execution of the Merger Agreement, Tiga entered into a support agreement (the Unitholder Support Agreement) with Grindr and certain unitholders of Grindr (the Requisite Unitholders). Pursuant to the Unitholder Support Agreement, the Requisite Unitholders agreed to, among other things, vote to adopt and approve the Merger Agreement, the Merger and any other matters necessary or reasonably requested by Tiga for the consummation of the Merger, in each case, subject to the terms and conditions of the Unitholder Support Agreement. A&R Registration Rights Agreement The Merger Agreement contemplates that, at the Closing, New Grindr, the Sponsor, the independent directors of Tiga and certain securityholders of Grindr will enter into the Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement (the A&R Registration Rights Agreement), pursuant to which New Grindr will agree to register for resale, pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), certain shares of New Grindr Common Stock and other equity securities of New Grindr that are held by the parties thereto from time to time. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any operating revenues to date. Our only activities from inception through March 31, 2022 were organizational activities and those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, after the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our initial Business Combination. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held after the Initial Public Offering. We expect that we will incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with searching for, and completing, a Business Combination. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we had a net income of $8,009,333 which consisted of a change in fair value of warrant liabilities of $8,957,794, a change in fair value of FPA liabilities of $218,160, and interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $39,730, offset by operating costs of $1,206,351. 19 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had a net income of $5,572,126, which consisted of a change in fair value of warrant liabilities of $7,328,958 and interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $31,721, offset by operating costs of $184,784 and change in fair value of FPA liabilities of $1,603,769. Sponsor, there will be a mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution of the Company. Management has determined that the mandatory liquidation, should a Business Combination not occur and an extension is not requested by the Sponsor, and potential subsequent dissolution raises substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should the Company be required to liquidate after May 27, 2022. 20 Table of Contents Liquidity and Going Concern As of March 31, 2022, we had cash of $199,358. Until the consummation of the Public Offering, our only source of liquidity was an initial purchase of ordinary shares by the Sponsor and loans from our Sponsor. On November 27, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 27,600,000 Units, which included the full exercise by the underwriters of their over-allotment option in the amount of 3,600,000 Units, at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $276,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 10,280,000 Initial Private Placement Warrants to the Sponsor at a price of $1.00 per private placement warrant generating gross proceeds of $10,280,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the full exercise of the over-allotment option, and the Initial Private Placement, a total of $278,760,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $15,736,649 in transaction costs, including $5,520,000 of underwriting fees, $9,660,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $556,649 of other offering costs. On May 18, 2021 and November 17, 2021, respectively, the Company announced the approval and extension of the time period to consummate a Business Combination and the approval of the issuance and sale of certain private placement warrants in connection therewith. On May 20, 2021 and November 22, 2021, respectively, the required deposit of $2,760,000 was placed into the Trust Account and on May 25, 2021 and November 23, 2021, respectively, the Company issued and sold to the Sponsor 2,760,000 Extension Private Placement Warrants. The total amount of outstanding Private Placement Warrants is 15,800,000 and the total deposits into the Trust Account have been $284,280,000 ($10.30 per public share). On March 16, 2022, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the execution and delivery of a Convertible Promissory Note in the principal amount of $2,000,000 (the Note) to the Sponsor, as part of the Working Capital Loans. On January 25, 2022, the Sponsor had advanced the sum of $750,000 to the Company on account of the Note. On May 12, 2022, the Sponsor advanced an additional sum of $430,000 to the Company on account of the Note. All unpaid principal under the Note shall be due and payable in full on the effective date of our initial business combination, unless accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account, which interest shall be net of taxes payable and excluding deferred underwriting commissions, to complete our Business Combination. We may withdraw interest from the Trust Account to pay taxes, if any. To the extent that our share capital or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete a Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of March 31, 2022, we had cash of $199,358. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. We will need to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from our initial shareholders, officers or directors. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction, and reducing overhead expenses. We cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern through one year and one day from the issuance of this report. In connection with the Companys assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with Financial ASU 2014-15, Disclosures of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, the Company has until May 27, 2022 to consummate a Business Combination. It is uncertain that the Company will be able to consummate a Business Combination by this time. However, if the Company anticipates that it may not be able to consummate a Business Combination by May 27, 2022, it may, by resolution of the board if requested by the Sponsor, extend the period of time to consummate a Business Combination by an additional 6 months (until November 27, 2022 to complete a Business Combination), subject to the Sponsor purchasing additional private placement warrants, such extended deadline, the Contractual Redemption Date. In connection with each extension, the Sponsor must purchase an additional 2,760,000 Private Placement Warrants at $1.00 per warrant and deposit the $2,760,000 in proceeds therefrom must be deposited into the trust account. If a Business Combination is not consummated by this date and an extension not requested by the Sponsor, there will be a mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution of the Company. Management has determined that the liquidity conditions and mandatory liquidation, should a Business Combination not occur and an extension is not requested by the Sponsor, and potential subsequent dissolution raises substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should the Company be required to liquidate after May 27, 2022. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2022. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for overhead expenses and related services provided to the Company. We began incurring these fees on November 23, 2020 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of a Business Combination and the Companys liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $9,660,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. We entered into a private placement warrants purchase agreement, dated as of November 23, 2020, with the Sponsor which provides that at the option of the Sponsor, on the dates that are six, 12 and 18 months, respectively from the closing date of the Initial Public Offering, the Company shall issue and sell to the Sponsor, its affiliates or permitted designees and the Sponsor shall purchase from the Company, an additional 2,760,000, private placement warrants at a price of $1.00 per private placement warrant for an aggregate purchase price of $2,760,000. 21 Table of Contents We entered into a forward purchase agreement with the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor which provides for the purchase by the Sponsor of an aggregate of 5,000,000 Class A ordinary shares, plus an aggregate of 2,500,000 forward purchase warrants to purchase one Class A ordinary share at $11.50 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $50,000,000, or $10.00 per Class A ordinary share, in a private placement to close prior to or concurrently with the closing of a Business Combination. Pursuant to the forward purchase agreement, the forward purchaser was also granted an option to subscribe, in the forward purchasers sole discretion, for an additional 5,000,000 Class A ordinary shares plus an additional 2,500,000 redeemable warrants to purchase one Class A ordinary share at $11.50 per share, for an additional purchase price of $50,000,000, or $10.00 per Class A ordinary share, in one or multiple private placements to close prior to or concurrently with the closing of our initial business combination. The obligations under the forward purchase agreement do not depend on whether any Class A ordinary shares are redeemed by the Public Shareholders. The forward purchase warrants will have the same terms as the public warrants issued as part of the Units. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We identified the following critical accounting policies: Warrant and Forward Purchase Agreement (FPA) Liability The Company accounts for the Warrants and FPA in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 815-40, under which the Warrants and FPA do not meet the criteria for equity treatment and must be recorded as liabilities. Accordingly, the Company classifies the Warrants and FPA as liabilities at their fair value and adjusts the Warrants and FPA to fair value at each reporting period. These liabilities are subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in the statements of operations. Changes in the estimated fair value of the warrants are recognized as a non-cash gain or loss on the statements of operations. The Public Warrants for periods where no observable trade price was available are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. For periods subsequent to the detachment of the Public Warrants from the Units, the Public Warrant quoted market price was used as the fair value as of each relevant date. The fair value of the Private Placement Warrants was determined using a Black-Scholes-Merton model. The committed units of the FPA are valued using a discounted valuation of a reconstructed unit price and the optional units of the FPA are valued using the same reconstructed unit price within a Black-Scholes-Merton model framework. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Class A Ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as a liability instrument and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders deficit section of our balance sheets. Net Income per Ordinary Share Net loss per ordinary share is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. The net income or loss is allocated to each class of shares using an allocation of total shares, which is then divided by the total shares for the respective class. We did not consider the effect of the warrants issued in connection with the initial public offering and the private placement in the calculation of diluted income per share because their exercise is contingent upon future events. As a result, diluted net income per ordinary share is the same as basic net income per ordinary share. Accretion associated with the redeemable Class A ordinary shares is excluded from income per ordinary share as the redemption value approximates fair value. Recent Accounting Standards In August 2020, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2020-06, Debt Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, and it simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company adopted ASU 2020-06 on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements. 22 Table of Contents JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier. 23 Table of Contents