Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Those results include the following: Gross billings decreased to $5.6 billion in 2017 , as compared to $5.7 billion in 2016 . In 2017 , 69.6% and 30.4% of our gross billings were generated in North America and International, respectively, as compared to 69.2% and 30.8% in 2016 . Gross billings represent the total dollar value of customer purchases of goods and services. Gross billings differs from our revenue, which is presented net of the merchant's share of the transaction price for transactions in which we act as a third-party marketing agent. Gross billings and revenue are the same for transactions in which we sell merchandise inventory directly to customers. Revenue decreased to $2.8 billion in 2017 , as compared to $3.0 billion in 2016 . In 2017 , 67.3% and 32.7% of our revenue was generated in North America and International, respectively, as compared to 71.4% and 28.6% in 2016 . Gross profit of $1.3 billion in 2017 was consistent with the prior year. In 2017 , 69.5% and 30.5% of our gross profit was generated in North America and International, respectively, as compared to 69.1% and 30.9% in 2016 . Income from operations was $29.4 million in 2017 , as compared to a loss from operations of $100.2 million in 2016 . The number of active customers, which is defined as unique user accounts that have made a purchase within the last 12 months either through one of our online marketplaces or directly with a merchant for which we earned a commission, increased to 49.5 million as o f December 31, 2017 from 47.9 million as of December 31, 2016 . We are a Delaware corporation, incorporated on January 15, 2008 under the name "ThePoint.com, Inc." We started Groupon in October 2008 and officially changed our name to Groupon, Inc. by filing an amended certificate of incorporation on June 16, 2009. Our principal executive offices are located at 600 West Chicago Avenue, Suite 400, Chicago, Illinois 60654, and our telephone number at this address is (312) 334-1579. Our investor relations department can be reached through our investor relations hotline, which is (312) 999-3098. Our website is www.groupon.com . Information contained on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We completed our initial public offering in November 2011 and our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "GRPN." GROUPON, the GROUPON logo and other GROUPON-formative marks are trademarks of Groupon, Inc. in the United States or other countries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes other trademarks of Groupon and trademarks of other persons. Our Strategy Our goal is to continue to build marketplaces that our customers rely on to discover and save on amazing things to do, eat, see, buy and where to travel. Key elements of our strategy for 2018 include the following: Grow long-term customer value. Our activities to grow long-term customer value are primarily focused on initiatives to improve the customer experience and marketing activities. We intend to improve the customer experience by continuing to invest in new products and technologies that will create a frictionless experience for our customers and merchants. As we continue to build out our marketplaces, we want our customers to have a superior, frictionless experience when they use our product whether finding, booking, buying or redeeming an offer. For merchants, this includes providing capabilities to manage demand for their goods and services and improving their ability to acquire customers. For consumers, this includes easily finding offers and accessing features that augment the overall experience, as well as seamlessly purchasing and redeeming offers. We are currently investing in initiatives to improve the purchase and redemption experience, such as enhancing our mobile applications, testing offerings with voucherless redemption resulting in cash back directly to customers' credit cards, which we refer to as Groupon+, and adding direct booking tools, including for health and beauty offerings. We believe that those initiatives may ultimately increase customer purchase frequency and drive growth in our business. Our marketing activities are critical to our ability to increase our global active customer base and improve gross profit per customer. We significantly increased our global marketing spend throughout 2016 and 2017 in order to drive customer growth and we expect that trend to continue. Our online marketing campaigns are primarily focused on customer acquisition, customer retention and driving repeat purchase behavior. We are focusing our offline 4 advertising activities on developing our brand strength and increasing awareness of our product and service offerings. We also use order discounts and other promotional initiatives to drive customer acquisition, activation and purchasing activity. Building out a more extensive local commerce marketplace platform. We ultimately want Groupon to become a daily habit for our customers. In order to achieve that long-term aspiration, we believe that we need to significantly increase the offerings available through our online local commerce marketplaces to ensure that our customers can consistently find what they are looking for. Our initiatives to grow our inventory of deal offerings include entering into commercial agreements with third parties that enable us to feature additional merchant offerings through our marketplaces, identifying new distribution channels through which to sell our marketplace offerings and launching an internal initiative to optimize the activities performed by our sales teams. Additionally, we believe that our efforts to increase our active customer base and improve gross profit per customer may improve the health of our marketplaces, making our marketing and promotional services more effective for the merchants who feature offerings on our platform. Unlocking the potential of our international markets. From 2015 to 2017, we reduced our global operating footprint from 47 countries to the 15 core countries that we believe have the greatest potential to favorably impact our results of operations. The gross profit generated by our International segment represented only 30.5% of our consolidated gross profit in 2017, and we are maintaining a long-term focus on driving International to ultimately achieve gross profit that is more comparable to North America. Our initiatives to grow International gross profit include increasing our international marketing spending, investing in more technology resources in order to expand and advance its product and service offerings, growing our inventory of deal offerings by entering into commercial agreements with third parties that enable us to feature additional merchant offerings through our marketplaces and other initiatives. Our Business We earn revenue from transactions in which we provide marketing services primarily by selling vouchers through our online local marketplaces that can be redeemed for goods or services with third-party merchants. Our third-party revenue from those transactions is reported on a net basis as the purchase price received from the customer for the voucher less an agreed upon portion of the purchase price paid to the merchant. We also earn revenue by selling merchandise inventory directly to customers through our online marketplaces. Our direct revenue from those transactions is the purchase price received from the customer. Our business model has evolved in recent years from primarily an email-based "push" model with a limited number of deals offered at any given time to more extensive online "pull" marketplaces, where customers can come to Groupon's websites and mobile applications to search and browse for deals on goods and services. We also publish ratings and helpful tips from customers to highlight the unique aspects of local merchants, including merchants that have featured offerings through our marketplaces. We offer goods and services through our online local marketplaces in three primary categories: Local, Goods and Travel. Collectively, Local and Travel comprise our "Services" offerings and Goods reflects our product offerings. Local. Our Local category includes offerings from local and national merchants, as well as local events. Local also includes other revenue sources such as commission revenue and advertising revenue, as these revenue sources are primarily generated through our relationships with local and national merchants. Our local offerings comprise multiple subcategories, including events and activities, beauty and spa, health and fitness, food and drink, home and garden and automotive. National merchants also have used our marketplaces as an alternative to traditional marketing and brand advertising. Although our business today is weighted toward offerings from local merchants, we continue to feature offerings from national merchants to build our brand awareness, acquire new customers and generate additional revenue. In addition to local and national deals, we give consumers the ability to access digital coupons from thousands of retailers through our Coupons offering. We also offer deals on concerts, sports, theater and other live entertainment events. We are increasingly featuring offerings on our site from other online marketplaces to further expand local offerings. Goods. In our Goods category, we earn direct revenue from transactions in which we sell merchandise inventory directly to customers, as well as third-party revenue from transactions in which third-party merchants sell products to customers through our marketplaces. Our Goods category offers customers the ability to find discounted merchandise across multiple product lines, including electronics, sporting goods, jewelry, toys, household items and apparel. We expect that we will continue to add new brands to our platform in order to expand our offerings. Travel . Through our Travel category, we feature travel offers at both discounted and market rates, including hotels, airfare and package deals covering both domestic and international travel. For many of our travel offerings, the customer must contact 5 the merchant directly to make a travel reservation after purchasing a travel voucher from us. However, for some of our hotel offerings, customers make room reservations directly through our websites. Distribution Our customers access our online local commerce marketplaces through our mobile applications and our websites, which primarily consist of localized groupon.com sites in countries throughout the world . We use a variety of marketing channels to direct customers to the deal offerings available through these marketplaces, as described in the Marketing section below. Consumers predominately access our offerings through our mobile applications and, to a lesser extent, through mobile web browsers. Our applications and mobile websites enable consumers to browse, purchase, manage and redeem deals on their mobile devices. In addition, the mobile experience leverages location in several ways, enabling consumers to filter by distance, discover deals near them and visualize the assortment of Groupon offers through a maps view. In the fourth quarter of 2017 , over 69% of our global transactions were completed on mobile devices. Marketing We primarily use marketing to acquire customers and promote awareness of our marketplaces and the services and product offerings available through those marketplaces. Consequently, marketing is an important part of our growth strategy and remains a key element of our business operations. We increased our global marketing spend by $48.7 million , or 13.8% , for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the prior period. We expect to continue to invest in marketing in future periods in connection with our efforts to increase active customers and customer purchase frequency. We use a variety of marketing channels to make customers aware of the deal offerings on our mobile and web platforms, including search engines, email and push notifications, affiliate channels, social and display advertising and offline marketing, which increased significantly during 2017 . Search engines. Customers can access our deal offerings indirectly through third-party search engines. We use search engine optimization ("SEO") and marketing ("SEM") to increase the visibility of our offerings in web search results. Email and push notifications. In North America and most of our international markets, we use targeting technology to determine which deal offerings to communicate to our subscribers based on their locations and personal preferences. A subscriber who clicks on a deal offering within an email or push notification is directed to our website or mobile application to learn more about the deal and be able to make a purchase. Affiliate channels. We have an affiliate program that utilizes third parties to promote our deal offerings online. Affiliates earn commissions when customers access our deal offerings through links on their websites and make purchases on our platform. We expect to continue to leverage affiliate relationships to extend the distribution of our deals to a broad base of potential customers. Social and display. We publish deals through various social networks and adapt our notifications to the particular format of each of these social networking platforms. Our websites and mobile application interfaces enable consumers to share deal offerings with their personal social networks. We also promote our deal offerings using display advertising on websites. Television and other offline. In 2017 , we significantly increased the extent to which we use offline marketing such as television advertising, and to a lesser extent, print and radio advertising. Our marketing activities also include elements that are not presented as Marketing on our consolidated statements of operations, such as order discounts and free shipping on qualifying merchandise sales. 6 Sales and Operations Our sales force consists of approximately 2,400 merchant sales representatives and sales support staff, who build merchant relationships and provide local expertise. Our North American merchant sales representatives and support staff are primarily based in our offices in Chicago and Phoenix, and our international merchant sales representatives and support staff are based in their respective local offices. Our global sales and sales support headcount by segment as of December 31, 2017 was as follows: North America 872 International 1,535 Total 2,407 Other key operational functions include deal managers, editorial, merchant services, customer service, technology, merchandising and logistics. Deal managers work with sales teams to optimize deal structure and pricing, as well as manage the category, discount and geographic mix of deals in their respective markets. Our editorial department is responsible for creating the written and visual content on the deals we offer. Merchant services representatives work with merchants to plan for increased customer traffic before an offering is active and serve as an ongoing point of contact for the merchant over the term of a deal. Our customer service department is responsible for answering questions received via phone, email and on public discussion boards regarding purchases, shipping status, returns and other areas of customer inquiry. Our technology team is focused on the design and development of new features and products, maintenance of our websites and development and maintenance of our internal systems. Merchandising and logistics personnel are responsible for managing inventory and the flow of products from suppliers to our customers. Our websites are hosted at two U.S. data centers in California and at an international data center in Ireland. Our data centers host our public-facing websites and applications, as well as our back-end business intelligence systems. We employ security practices to protect and maintain the systems located at our data centers. We have invested in intrusion and anomaly detection tools to try to recognize intrusions to our websites. We engage independent third-party Internet security firms to regularly test the security of our websites and identify vulnerabilities. In financial transactions with customers conducted on our websites and mobile applications, we use data encryption protocols to secure information while in transit. See Risk Factors for additional information relating to cyber threats. Competition Our business is rapidly evolving and we face competition from a variety of sources. Some of our competitors offer deals as an add-on to their core business, and others have adopted a business model similar to ours. We also compete against companies that offer other types of advertising and promotional services to local businesses. In addition to such competitors, we expect to increasingly compete against other large Internet and technology-based businesses that have launched initiatives that are directly competitive to our core business. Such competitors may be much larger companies who have more resources and significantly greater scale. We also expect to compete against other Internet sites that are focused on specific communities or interests and offer coupons or discount arrangements related to such communities or interests. Further, as our business continues to evolve, we anticipate facing new competition. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets include the following: quality and performance of our merchants; size and composition of our customer base; mobile penetration; understanding of local business trends; ability to structure deal offerings to generate a positive return on investment for merchants; ability to generate large volumes of sales; and reputation, strength and recognition of brand. 7 Although we believe that we compete favorably on the factors described above and benefit from scale, we anticipate that larger, more established companies may directly compete with us over time. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than we do. These factors may allow our competitors to benefit from their existing customer base with lower acquisition costs or to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. These competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies, which may allow them to build a larger subscriber base or to monetize that subscriber base more effectively than we do. Our competitors may develop products or services that are similar to our products and services or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services. Seasonality Some of our offerings experience seasonal buying patterns mirroring that of the larger consumer retail and e-commerce markets, where demand declines during customary summer vacation periods and increases during the fourth quarter holiday season. We believe that this seasonality pattern has affected, and will continue to affect, our business and quarterly sequential revenue growth rates. We recognized 30.7% , 30.0% and 29.7% of our annual revenue during the fourth quarter of 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Regulation We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. Additionally, those laws and regulations may be interpreted differently across domestic and foreign jurisdictions. As a company in a relatively new and rapidly innovating industry, we are exposed to the risk that many of those laws may evolve or be interpreted by regulators or in the courts in ways that could materially affect our business. Those laws and regulations may involve taxation, unclaimed property, intellectual property, product liability, travel, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, consumer protection, the provision of various online payment services, employee, merchant and customer privacy and data security or other areas. The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the "CARD Act"), as well as the laws of most states, contain provisions governing gift cards, gift certificates, stored value or pre-paid cards or coupons ("gift cards"). Groupon vouchers may be included within the definition of "gift cards" under many laws. In addition, certain foreign jurisdictions have laws that govern disclosure and certain product terms and conditions, including restrictions on expiration dates and fees, that may apply to Groupon vouchers. There are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the U.S. Congress, various state legislative bodies and foreign governments that could affect us, and our global operations may be constrained by regulatory regimes and laws in Europe and other jurisdictions outside the United States that may be more restrictive and adversely impact our business. Various U.S. laws and regulations, such as the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (the "Bank Secrecy Act"), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the USA PATRIOT Act and the CARD Act impose certain anti-money laundering requirements on companies that are financial institutions or that provide financial products and services. Those laws and regulations broadly define financial institutions to include money services businesses such as money transmitters, check cashers and sellers or issuers of stored value. Requirements imposed on financial institutions under those laws include customer identification and verification programs, record retention policies and procedures and transaction reporting. We do not believe that we are a financial institution subject to those laws and regulations. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations governing consumer data. The General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR"), which was recently adopted by the European Union and will become effective in May 2018, requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its collection, use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Complying with the GDPR is expected to cause us to update certain business practices and systems. Non-compliance with GDPR could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others and fines up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of annual global revenues. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We control access to our proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with third parties. In addition to those contractual arrangements, we also rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress, domain names and patents to protect our intellectual property. Groupon and its related entities own a 8 number of trademarks and service marks registered or pending in the United States and internationally. In addition, we own a number of issued patents and pending patent applications in the United States and internationally and own and have applied for copyright registrations. Circumstances outside our control could pose a threat to our intellectual property rights and the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective or deter independent development of equivalent or superior intellectual property rights by others. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time-consuming. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. Companies in the Internet, technology and other industries as well as non-practicing entities may own large numbers of patents, copyrights and trademarks or other intellectual property rights and may request license agreements, threaten litigation or file suit against us based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We are currently subject to, and expect to face in the future, lawsuits and allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties. As our business grows, we will likely face more claims of infringement, and may experience an adverse result which could impact our business and/or our operating results. We have received in the past, and we anticipate we will receive in the future, communications alleging that items offered or sold through our website infringe third-party copyrights, trademarks, patents and trade names or other intellectual property rights or that we have otherwise infringed third parties past, current or future intellectual property rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from offering and selling unlawful or infringing goods or goods of disputed authenticity, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by third parties through our website. We may implement measures in an effort to protect against these potential liabilities that could require us to spend substantial resources and/or to reduce revenues by discontinuing certain service offerings. Any costs incurred as a result of liability or asserted liability relating to the sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of goods could harm our business. Employees As of December 31, 2017 , there were 2,639 employees in our North America segment, consisting of 872 sales representatives and 1,767 corporate, operational and customer service representatives, and 4,033 employees in our International segment, consisting of 1,535 sales representatives and 2,498 corporate, operational and customer service representatives. Executive Officers The following table sets forth information about our executive officers: Name Age Position Rich Williams 43 Chief Executive Officer and Director Michael Randolfi 45 Chief Financial Officer Steve Krenzer 59 Chief Operating Officer Dane Drobny 50 General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Brian Stevens 43 Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer Rich Williams has served as our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors since November 2015. Prior to this role, Mr. Williams served as our Chief Operating Officer since June 2015 and President of North America since October 2014. He joined the Company in June 2011 as Senior Vice President of Marketing. Prior to joining Groupon, Mr. Williams served in a variety of marketing leadership roles at Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) from January 2008 to June 2011, most recently as the Director, Paid Traffic leading global advertising. Prior to joining Amazon, he spent nearly seven years in sales and marketing leadership roles at Experian plc (LSE: EXPN), a global information services company. Michael Randolfi has served as our Chief Financial Officer since April 2016. Prior to joining Groupon, Mr. Randolfi served as the Chief Financial Officer of Orbitz Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: OWW) from March 2013 until November 2015 (when he departed following its acquisition by Expedia, Inc.). Prior to joining Orbitz, Mr. Randolfi served as Vice President and then as Senior Vice President and Controller at Delta Air Lines (NYSE: DAL) from February 2008 to February 2013. From June 1999 to February 2008, he held various executive positions at Delta Air Lines in financial planning and analysis, controllership and treasury. 9 Prior to his 14-year career at Delta, Mr. Randolfi held positions with Continental Airlines (NYSE: UAL) and Raymond James and Associates (NYSE: RJF). Mr. Randolfi is a CPA and a certified management accountant. Steve Krenzer has served as our Chief Operating Officer since November 2017. Prior to joining Groupon, Mr. Krenzer was the Chief Executive Officer of Core Digital Media, Inc. from October 2012 to November 2017. From November 1996 to October 2012, Mr. Krenzer held a variety of senior executive positions at Experian (LSE: EXPN), ultimately serving as President of Interactive Media. Dane Drobny has served as our General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 2014. Prior to joining Groupon, Mr. Drobny was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary at Sears Holdings Corporation (NASDAQ: SHLD) from May 2010 to June 2014. Prior to joining Sears Holdings, he spent 17 years at the international law firm of Winston & Strawn LLP, most recently as a partner. Brian Stevens has served as our Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer since May 2016 and as our Chief Accounting Officer since September 2012. Prior to joining Groupon, Mr. Stevens spent 16 years with KPMG LLP, most recently as a partner. Mr. Stevens spent five years in KPMG's Department of Professional Practice and was a practice fellow at the Financial Accounting Standards Board from 2006 to 2008. Mr. Stevens is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and served on its Financial Reporting Executive Committee (FinREC) from November 2013 to January 2018. Available Information The Company electronically files reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials the Company has filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Copies of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also available free of charge through the Company's website (www.groupon.com), as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing with or otherwise furnishing such information to the SEC, and are available in print to any stockholder who requests them. The Company's Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and committee charters are also posted on the site. The Company uses its Investor Relations website (investor.groupon.com) and its blog (www.groupon.com/blog) as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Information contained on our website and blog is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected by the risks described below. In assessing those risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes in Part II,