Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements regarding: growth prospects of the Property & Casualty (P&C) insurance industry and our company; trends in our future sales, including seasonality; opportunities for growth by technology leadership; competitive advantages of our platform of software application solutions; our market strategy in relation to our competitors; competitive attributes of our software application solutions; opportunities to further expand our position outside of the United States; risk of exposure to product liability; our research and development investment and efforts; satisfying our future liquidity requirements; our gross margins and factors that affect gross margins; our provision for tax liabilities and other critical accounting estimates; our exposure to market risks; and future payments required pursuant to lease agreements and commitments. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on information available to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our current expectations about future events, which are inherently subject to change and involve risks and uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this report or in any of our other communications, except as required by law. All such forward-looking statements should be read as of the time the statements were made and with the recognition that these forward-looking statements may not be complete or accurate at a later date. _________________________________________________________ Unless the context requires otherwise, we are referring to Guidewire Software, Inc. when we use the terms Guidewire, the Company, we, our or us. ii Table of Contents Item 1. Business Overview Guidewire Software, Inc. is a provider of software products for Property & Casualty ("P&C") insurers. Our solutions serve as the transactional systems-of-record for, and enable the key functions of a P&C insurance carriers business: underwriting and policy administration, claims management and billing. Since our inception, our mission has been to empower P&C insurance carriers to transform and improve their businesses by replacing their legacy core systems with our innovative modern software platform. Our solutions enable our customers to respond to evolving market needs, while improving the efficiency of their core operations, thereby increasing their revenues and reducing their costs. We have developed an integrated suite of highly configurable applications that support our customers most fundamental business processes. Our software product architecture enables extensive configurability of business rules, workflows and user interfaces without modifications to the underlying code base. This approach allows our customers to easily make changes in response to specific, evolving business needs. More recently, we have created, and are investing in, adjacent products to our core solutions, which provide added value to our customers. Our solutions are delivered through a web-based interface and can be deployed either on-premise or in cloud environments. Our customers typically choose to deploy our solutions on-premise due to security requirements and numerous integration points with other systems. To support the global operations of our customers, our software has been localized for use in a variety of international regulatory, language and currency environments. Our Guidewire InsuranceSuite enables core P&C insurance operations and is comprised of: Guidewire PolicyCenter A flexible underwriting and policy administration application that serves as a comprehensive system-of-record for policies and supports the entire policy lifecycle; Guidewire ClaimCenter An end-to-end claims management application for claim intake, assessment, settlement and processing of related financial transactions; and Guidewire BillingCenter A comprehensive billing and receivables application that enables flexible billing, payment and commission options. Our more recent product initiatives include: InsuranceSuite Add-on Modules Additional modules which add additional flexibility and functionality to our core products. Data Management and Business Intelligence Tools to assist insurers to better map and convert data into new core systems and to create a central data hub that can keep downstream processes intact and deliver an enterprise-wide view and insights to fine-tune the business. Guidewire Live A cloud-based network connecting peer insurers, core system data and external data. Customers access Guidewire Live through applications which enable more informed, context-driven decisions and actions. Strong customer relationships are a key component of our business which supports the long-term nature of our contracts and importance of customer references for new sales. Our customers range from some of the largest global insurance carriers or their subsidiaries such as Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. and Zurich Financial Services Group Ltd. to national carriers such as Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company to regional carriers such as AAA affiliates. As of July 31, 2013 , we had 158 customers. We began our principal business operations in 2001 and sold the initial versions of ClaimCenter in 2003, PolicyCenter in 2004 and BillingCenter in 2006. We conducted our initial public offering of our common stock on January 25, 2012 and our follow-on public offering of our common stock on April 19, 2012. We primarily generate software license revenues through annual license fees that recur during the multi-year term of a customers contract. The average initial length of our contracts is approximately five years, and these contracts are renewable on an annual or multi-year basis. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance or, in certain cases, quarterly for both recurring term license and maintenance fees, and we invoice our perpetual license customers either in full at contract signing or on an installment basis and we invoice related maintenance fees annually, in advance. We primarily derive our services revenues from implementation and training services performed for our customers. A significant majority of services are billed on a time and materials basis and recognized as revenues upon delivery of the services. 1 Table of Contents Background The P&C insurance industry is large, fragmented, highly regulated and complex. The P&C insurance industry is highly competitive and carriers compete primarily on the following factors: product differentiation, pricing options, customer service, marketing and advertising, affiliate programs and channel strategies. The key functional areas in P&C insurance are underwriting and policy administration, claims management and billing. Underwriting and policy administration are the cornerstone functions of all P&C insurance carriers operations. These processes involve collecting information from potential policyholders, determining appropriate coverage and terms, pricing the policy, issuing the policy and updating and maintaining the policy over its lifetime. Claims management includes loss report intake, investigation and evaluation of incidents, claims negotiation, payment processing and litigation management. Billing includes account creation, policyholder invoicing, payment collection, commission calculation and disbursement. Effective policy management requires IT systems that integrate with other internal systems and have the ability to control workflow, enable extensive configurability and provide visibility to every user. The varying regulatory requirements of each region requires customization of data and business rules, rendering the design of comprehensive IT solutions on a regional, national and global basis a major challenge for IT providers serving this industry. Additionally, stringent archiving and audit requirements, along with frequent changes in regulatory policy, have imposed a significant burden on IT systems and staff, which struggle to adequately support such requirements in IT environments dominated by legacy core systems. P&C insurance carriers spend considerable amounts of time and capital on software to maintain and attempt to improve legacy systems, manage workflows in highly distributed environments and respond to changing and interrelated customer and employee needs. Products We provide an integrated suite of software applications built on a unified platform that address the core processes for P&C insurance carriers: underwriting and policy administration, claims management and billing. Our customers buy our software applications separately or in combination as a suite. Guidewire InsuranceSuite Guidewire InsuranceSuite includes each of our individual applications: PolicyCenter, ClaimCenter and BillingCenter. We have built our suite of applications on a unified technology platform, providing enhanced workflow and functionality between applications. Guidewire PolicyCenter Guidewire PolicyCenter is our flexible underwriting and policy administration application that serves as a comprehensive system-of-record that supports the entire policy lifecycle, including product definition, underwriting, quoting, binding, issuances, endorsements, audits, cancellations and renewals. Guidewire ClaimCenter Guidewire ClaimCenter is our claims management application for claim intake, assessment, settlement and processing of claim-related financial transactions. ClaimCenter enables claims lifecycle management improvements including dynamic, intuitive loss report intake, advanced adjudication processes and integrated operational reporting. ClaimCenter provides P&C insurance carriers with modern productivity tools built within a sophisticated business rules-based claims application. Guidewire BillingCenter Guidewire BillingCenter is our billing and receivables management application. It automates the billing lifecycle, enables the design of a wide variety of billing and payment plans, manages agent commissions and integrates with external payment systems. InsuranceSuite Add-on Modules We also offer the following add-on modules for InsuranceSuite: Guidewire Rating Management. Guidewire Rating Management enables P&C insurance carriers to manage the pricing of their insurance products. Guidewire Reinsurance Management. Guidewire Reinsurance Management enables P&C insurance carriers to use rules-based logic to execute their reinsurance strategy through their underwriting and claims processes. 2 Table of Contents Guidewire Client Data Management . Guidewire Client Data Management helps P&C insurance carriers capitalize on customer information more coherently, overcoming traditional siloed practices that impair efficiency and customer service. Guidewire Standards-Based Templates. Guidewire Standards-Based Templates help facilitate both initial implementation and ongoing maintenance of ISO-based insurance products. Data Management and Business Intelligence ("BI") Guidewire DataHub . Guidewire DataHub is an operational data store that unifies, standardizes and stores data from the patchwork of an insurer's systems as well as external sources, which also enables carriers to accelerate legacy system replacement. Guidewire InfoCenter. Guidewire InfoCenter is a business intelligence warehouse for P&C insurers which provides information in easy-to-use formats for business intelligence, analysis and enhanced decision making. With InfoCenter, customers gain operational insight as well as fine-tune their business by building views and understanding across the enterprise. Guidewire Live Guidewire Live is a cloud-based network connecting peer insurers, core system data and external data through applications. Customers access Guidewire Live through applications which enable more informed, context-driven decisions and actions. Technology We developed our suite of applications on our unified technology platform, which combines standards-based elements and proprietary components. We based our platform on the most common software industry standard, Java EE, to provide flexibility and deployability into P&C insurance carrier enterprise environments worldwide. P&C insurance carrier IT departments can manage and administer our applications through their development, test and production environments by leveraging the broad set of supporting infrastructure and proprietary tools we have built around the Java EE framework. Services We provide implementation and integration services to help our customers realize benefits from our software solutions. Guidewire implementation teams assist customers in building implementation plans, integrating our software solutions with their existing systems and defining business rules and specific requirements unique to each customer and installation. We also partner with several leading system integration consulting firms, certified on our software, to achieve scalable, cost-effective implementations for our customers. We expect our services revenues and related costs of revenues to increase in future periods as we provide more implementation services to our customers. Customers We market and sell our products to a wide variety of global P&C insurance carriers ranging from some of the largest global insurers to national carriers to regional carriers. We believe strong customer relationships are a key component of our success given the long-term nature of our contracts and importance of customer references for new sales. We focus on developing and maintaining our customer relationships through customer service and account management. As of July 31, 2013 , we had 158 customers in 17 countries using one or more of our products. Strategic Relationships We have extensive relationships with system integration, consulting and industry partners. Our network of partners has expanded as the interest in and adoption of our solutions has grown. We encourage our partners to co-market, pursue joint sales initiatives and drive broader adoption of our technology, helping us grow our business more efficiently and enabling us to focus our engineering resources on continued innovation and further enhancement of our solutions. We partner with leading system integrators including Capgemini, Ernst & Young, IBM Global Services and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Sales and Marketing Consistent with our industry focus and the mission-critical needs our solutions address, our sales and marketing efforts are tailored to communicate effectively to senior executives within the P&C industry. Our sales, marketing and executive teams work together to cultivate long-term relationships with our current and prospective customers in each of the geographies in which we are active. As of July 31, 2013 , we employed 177 employees in a sales and marketing capacity, including 36 direct sales representatives organized by geographic region across the U.S., Canada, U.K., France, Germany, Australia, Japan and Hong 3 Table of Contents Kong. This team serves as both our exclusive sales channel and our account management function. We augment our sales professionals with a pre-sales team possessing insurance domain and technical expertise, who engage customers in sessions to understand their specific business needs and then represent our products through demonstrations tailored to address those needs. Our marketing team supports sales with competitive analysis and sales tools, while investing to strengthen our brand name and reputation. We participate at industry conferences, are published frequently in the industry press and have active relationships with all of the major industry analysts. We also host Connections, an annual user conference where customers both participate in and deliver programs on a wide range of Guidewire and insurance technology topics. We invite potential customers and partners to our user conference, as we believe customer references are a key component of driving new sales. Our strong relationships with leading system integrators, including Capgemini, Ernst & Young, IBM Global Services and PricewaterhouseCoopers, enhance our direct sales through co-marketing efforts and providing additional market validation of our products distinctiveness and quality. Research and Development Our research and development efforts reflect the extensive IT needs of P&C insurance carriers. These systems are required to perform millions of complex transactions that must balance on a daily basis. This accuracy must be maintained not only during normal business operations, but also during extraordinary events such as catastrophes, which may result in extremely high transaction volume in a short period of time. Our research and development efforts focus on enhancing our solutions to meet the increasingly complex requirements of P&C insurance carriers and broadening our suite of applications with new product initiatives to form an end-to-end software solution for P&C insurance carriers. As of July 31, 2013 , our research and development department had 330 employees. We incurred $66.3 million , $50.5 million and $34.8 million in research and development expenses for fiscal years 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Competition The market to provide core system software to the P&C insurance industry is highly competitive and fragmented. This market is subject to changing technology, shifting client needs and introductions of new products and services. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Our current principal competitors include: Internally developed software Many large insurance companies have sufficient IT resources to maintain and augment their own proprietary internal systems, or consider developing new custom systems; IT services firms Firms such as Accenture, CSC, MajescoMastek and Tata Consultancy Services Limited offer software and systems or develop custom, proprietary solutions for the P&C insurance industry; P&C insurance software vendors Vendors such as Accenture, FINEOS, Innovation Group, ISCS, OneShield, Inc., StoneRiver, Inc., and TIA Technology A/S provide software solutions that are specifically designed to meet the needs of P&C insurance carriers; and Horizontal software vendors Vendors such as Pegasystems Inc. and SAP AG offer software that can be customized to address the needs of P&C insurance carriers. The principal competitive factors in our industry include total cost of ownership, product functionality, flexibility and performance, customer references and in-depth knowledge of the P&C insurance industry. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on the basis of each of these factors. However, many of our current or potential competitors have greater financial and other resources, greater name recognition and longer operating histories than we do. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and to establish and adequately protect our intellectual property rights. To accomplish these objectives, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements and other contractual protections. As of July 31, 2013 , we owned seven issued U.S. patents. We also have 29 regular U.S. patent applications pending. Our issued patents are scheduled to expire from 2026 to 2032. Our patents and patent applications generally apply to our InsuranceSuite and applications. Given the costs, effort, risks and downside of obtaining patent protection, including the requirement to ultimately disclose the invention to the public, we may choose not to seek patent protection for certain innovations; however, such patent protection could later prove to be important to our business. 4 Table of Contents We also rely on several registered and unregistered trademarks to protect our brand. We own registrations for the trademarks Guidewire, Guidewire PolicyCenter, Guidewire ClaimCenter and Guidewire BillingCenter in the United States and Canada. We also own a U.S. trademark registration, an International Registration (with protection extended to Australia and the European Community) and a Canada registration for the Gosu trademark. Additionally, we own an Australia trademark registration, a Hong Kong trademark registration, and a Japan trademark registration for the Guidewire trademark. We have also registered the trademark Guidewire Software in the European Community. Finally, we own international registrations, designating China, the European Community and Russia, for the Guidewire trademark, all of which are pending. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the software industry have extensive patent portfolios. From time-to-time, third parties, including certain of these leading companies, may assert patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property claims against us or our customers. In this regard, we were previously sued by Accenture, a competitor, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. Our patent litigation with Accenture has been settled and is further described in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Employees As of July 31, 2013 , we had 1,149 employees, including 177 in sales and marketing, 528 in services and support, 330 in research and development and 114 in a general and administrative capacity. As of July 31, 2013 , we had 787 employees in the United States and 362 employees internationally. None of our employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment with us. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Seasonality We sign a significantly higher percentage of software license orders in the second and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. We generally see increased orders in our second fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ended January 31, due to customer buying patterns. We also see increased orders in our fourth fiscal quarter due to efforts by our sales team to achieve annual incentives. As a result, a significantly higher percentage of our annual license revenues have historically been recognized during those quarters. Since a substantial majority of our license revenues recur annually under our multi-year contracts, we expect to continue to experience this seasonality effect in subsequent years. Our maintenance and services revenues are not as impacted by this seasonal trend. Executive Officers of the Registrant Our current executive officers, and their ages and positions as of September 15, 2013 , are set forth below: Name Age Position(s) Marcus S. Ryu 40 President, Chief Executive Officer, Co-Founder and Director Karen Blasing 57 Chief Financial Officer Jeremy Henrickson 39 Vice President, Product Development Alexander C. Naddaff 58 Vice President, Professional Services Priscilla Hung 46 Senior Vice President, Operations & Corporate Development J. Winston King 41 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Marcus S. Ryu co-founded Guidewire and has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since 2010 and as a member of our board of directors since 2001. He served as our Vice President of Products from 2008 to 2010 and our Vice President of Strategy from 2001 to 2008. Prior to founding Guidewire, from 2000 to 2001, Mr. Ryu was Vice President of Strategy at Ariba, Inc., a software-as-a-service provider of collaborative business commerce solutions for buying and selling goods and services. Mr. Ryu also worked as an Associate and Engagement Manager at McKinsey & Company from 1998 until 2000. Mr. Ryu holds an A.B. from Princeton University and a B.Phil. from New College, Oxford University. Karen Blasing has served as our Chief Financial Officer since 2009. Prior to joining Guidewire, from 2006 to 2009, Ms. Blasing was Chief Financial Officer at Force10 Networks, Inc., a network solutions provider recently acquired by Dell Inc. From 2002 to 2005, Ms. Blasing was Chief Financial Officer at Nuance Communications, Inc., a speech and imaging software 5 Table of Contents developer. Ms. Blasing holds a B.A. in Economics and a B.A. in Business Administration, Finance from the University of Montana and an M.B.A. from the University of Washington. Jeremy Henrickson has served as our Vice President of Product Development since 2008. Prior to that, he served as our Director of Product Management and Program Manager from 2006 to 2008 and our Senior Product Manager from 2003 to 2005. He was also a founding member of our European sales team. Prior to joining Guidewire, Mr. Henrickson was Director of Technology Services at Reactivity, Inc., a developer of XML processing applications. Mr. Henrickson holds a B.S. and an M.S. in Computer Science from Stanford University. Alexander C. Naddaff has served as our Vice President of Professional Services since 2002. Prior to joining Guidewire, from 1998 to 2002, Mr. Naddaff worked as Vice President of Claims Technology at The Hartford Insurance Company. Mr. Naddaff holds a B.S. in Accounting from Wagner College. Priscilla Hung has served as our Senior Vice President of Operations & Corporate Development since September 2012, Vice President of Operations since 2010, and Vice President of Corporate Development & Alliances from 2005 to 2010. Prior to joining Guidewire in 2005, from 2000 to 2005 Ms. Hung held several management positions at Ariba Inc., including the Director of Operations and Director of Global Channels and Alliances, and prior to that held several channel, business development, and product marketing positions at Sun Microsystems, Uniface/Compuware, Pyramid/Siemens Nixdorf, and Oracle Corporation. Ms. Hung holds an M.Eng Industrial Engineering and Operations Research degree from Cornell University. J. Winston King has served as our Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since January 2013. Before joining Guidewire, Mr. King worked at Infogroup, Inc., a multinational data, marketing services and research firm, from 2007 to 2012, where he most recently was EVP, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to that, Mr. King practiced with the WilmerHale law firm, in their Washington, DC office. Mr. King holds a A.B. in economics from Duke University and a J.D. from Vanderbilt University School of Law. WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION The following filings are available through our investor relations website after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and our Proxy Statement for our annual meeting of stockholders. These filings are also available for download free of charge on our investor relations website. Our website is located at www.guidewire.com , and our investor relations website is located at http://ir.guidewire.com /. We also provide a link to the section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov that has all of our public filings, including periodic reports, proxy statements and other information. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs as part of our investor relations website. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds. Further corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines and code of business conduct and ethics, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Corporate Governance. The contents of our websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 6 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this report, and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. We may experience significant quarterly and annual fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors. Our quarterly and annual results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as research analysts and investors respond to quarterly fluctuations. In addition, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis, particularly on a sequential quarterly basis, may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that may affect our results of operations include: structure of our licensing contracts, including fluctuations in perpetual licenses from period to period; the timing of new orders and revenue recognition for new and prior year orders; seasonal buying patterns of our customers; our ability to increase sales to and renew agreements with our existing customers, particularly larger customers, at comparable prices; our ability to renew existing contracts for multiple year terms versus annual automatic renewals; our ability to attract new customers, particularly larger customers, in both domestic and international markets; our ability to enter into contracts on favorable terms, including terms related to price, payment timing and product delivery; volatility in the sales of our products and timing of the execution of new and renewal agreements within such periods; commissions expense related to large transactions; bonus expense based on the bonus attainment rate; the lengthy and variable nature of our product implementation cycles; reductions in our customers budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles, particularly in light of recent adverse global economic conditions; our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; any significant change in our facilities-related costs; the timing and cost of hiring personnel and of large expenses such as those for trade shows and third-party professional services; the timing and amount of an additional litigation settlement payment, if any; stock-based compensation expenses and related payroll taxes, which vary along with changes to our stock price; general domestic and international economic conditions, in the insurance industry in particular; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies; and the impact of a recession or any other adverse global economic conditions on our business, including uncertainties that may cause a delay in entering into or a failure to enter into significant customer agreements. In addition, our revenue may fluctuate if our customers make an early payment of their annual fees. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our quarterly and annual results of operations. Any failure to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a revenues shortfall could magnify the adverse impact of such revenues shortfall on our results of operations. Failure to achieve our quarterly forecasts or to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors will cause our stock price to decline. 7 Table of Contents Seasonal sales patterns and other variations related to our revenue recognition may cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows and may prevent us from achieving our quarterly or annual forecasts, which may cause our stock price to decline. We sign a significantly higher percentage of software license orders in the second and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. We generally see increased orders in our second fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ended January 31, due to customer buying patterns. We also see increased orders in our fourth fiscal quarter due to efforts by our sales team to achieve annual incentives. As a result, a significantly higher percentage of our annual license revenues have historically been recognized during those quarters. Since a substantial majority of our license revenues recur annually under our multi-year contracts, we expect to continue to experience this seasonality effect in subsequent years. Notwithstanding the fact that we generally see increased licensing orders in our second and fourth fiscal quarters, we expect to see additional quarterly revenue fluctuations that may, in some cases, mask the impact of these expected seasonal variations. Our quarterly growth in license revenues also may not match up to new orders we receive in a given quarter. This mismatch is primarily due to the following reasons: for the initial year of a multi-year term license, we generally recognize revenues when payment is due and payment may not be due until a subsequent fiscal quarter; we may enter into license agreements with specified terms for product upgrades or functionality, which may require us to delay revenue recognition for the initial period; and we may enter into license agreements with other contractual terms that may affect the timing of revenue recognition. Our revenues may fluctuate versus comparable prior periods or prior quarters within the same fiscal year based on when new orders are executed in the quarter and the payment terms of each order. Additionally, our revenues may fluctuate if our customers make an early payment of their annual fees. Our ability to renew existing contracts for multiple year terms versus annual automatic renewals may also impact revenue recognition. We generally charge annual software license fees for our multi-year term licenses and price our licenses based on the amount of direct written premiums (DWP) that will be managed by our solutions. However, in certain circumstances, our customers desire the ability to purchase our products on a perpetual license basis, resulting in an acceleration of revenue recognition. Milestone payments in a perpetual license order also cause seasonal variations. Our perpetual license revenues are not consistent from period to period. In addition, a few of our multi-year term licenses provide the customer with the option to purchase a perpetual license at the end of the initial contract term, which we refer to as a perpetual buyout right. The mix of our contract terms for our licenses and the exercise of perpetual buyout rights at the end of the initial contract term by our customers may lead to variability in our results of operations. Increases in perpetual license sales and exercises of perpetual buyout rights by our customers may affect our ability to show consistent growth in license revenues in subsequent periods. Reductions in perpetual licenses in future periods could cause adverse period-to-period comparisons of our financial results. In addition, because we price our products based on the amount of DWP that will be managed by our solutions, license revenues from each customer may fluctuate up or down based upon insurance policies sold by the customer in the preceding year. If we enter into a new territory, our revenue recognition pattern may change, depending on the contractual terms and local laws and regulations. Seasonal and other variations related to our revenue recognition may cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows, may make it challenging for an investor to predict our performance on a quarterly basis and may prevent us from achieving our quarterly or annual forecasts or meeting or exceeding the expectations of research analysts or investors, which may cause our stock price to decline. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on orders from a relatively small number of customers in the P&C insurance industry for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of any of these customers would significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues are dependent on orders from customers in the P&C insurance industry, which may be adversely affected by economic, environmental and world political conditions. A relatively small number of customers have historically accounted for a majority of our revenues. In fiscal years 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , our ten largest customers accounted for 33% , 35% and 41% of our revenues, respectively. While we expect this reliance to decrease over time, we expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, if we fail to successfully sell our products and services to one or more anticipated customers in any particular period or fail to identify additional potential customers or an anticipated customer purchases fewer of our products or services, defers or cancels orders, or terminates its relationship with us, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Some of our orders are realized at the end of the quarter or are subject to delayed payment terms. As a result of this concentration and 8 Table of Contents timing, if we are unable to complete one or more substantial sales or achieve any required performance or acceptance criteria in any given quarter, our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly. Our services revenues produce lower gross margins than our license or maintenance revenues, and an increase in services revenues as a percentage of total revenues could adversely affect our overall gross margins and profitability. Our services revenues were 46 %, 45 % and 45 % of total revenues for each of fiscal years 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Our services revenues produce lower gross margins than our license revenues. The gross margin of our services revenues was 12% , 19% and 18% for fiscal years 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively, while the gross margin for license revenues was 99% , 99% and 98% for the respective periods. An increase in the percentage of total revenues represented by services revenues could reduce our overall gross margins. The volume and profitability of our services offerings depend in large part upon: price charged to our customers; the utilization rate of our services personnel; the complexity of our customers information technology environments; our ability to accurately forecast the time and resources required for each implementation project; the resources directed by our customers to their implementation projects; our ability to hire, train and retain qualified services personnel; unexpected difficulty in projects which may require additional efforts on our part without commensurate compensation; our ability to manage fixed fee arrangements; the extent to which system integrators provide services directly to customers; and our ability to adequately predict customer demand and scale our professional services staff accordingly. Any erosion in our services margins or any significant increase in services revenues as a percentage of total revenues would adversely affect our results of operations. Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violation by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the software industry own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims against us. From time to time, third parties, including certain of these leading companies, may assert patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property claims against us, our customers and partners, and those from whom we license technology and intellectual property. Although we believe that our products and services do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, we cannot assure that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to current or future products or services, or that any such assertions will not require us to enter into royalty arrangements or result in costly litigation, or result in us being unable to use certain intellectual property. We cannot assure that we are not infringing or otherwise violating any third party intellectual property rights. Infringement assertions from third parties may involve patent holding companies or other patent owners who have no relevant product revenues, and therefore our own issued and pending patents may provide little or no deterrence to these patent owners in bringing intellectual property rights claims against us. Any intellectual property infringement or misappropriation claim or assertion against us, our customers or partners, and those from whom we license technology and intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, reputation and competitive position regardless of the validity or outcome. If we are forced to defend against any infringement or misappropriation claims, whether they are with or without merit, are settled out of court, or are determined in our favor, we may be required to expend significant time and financial resources on the defense of such claims. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a partys intellectual property; cease making, licensing or using our products or services that are alleged to infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to redesign our products or services; enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or works; and to indemnify our partners, customers, and other third parties. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required or desirable, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may require significant royalty payments and other expenditures. Any of these events could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial 9 Table of Contents condition. In addition, any lawsuits regarding intellectual property rights, regardless of their success, could be expensive to resolve and divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. We may incur additional future expenses in connection with the settlement of our litigation with Accenture. In December 2007, we were sued by Accenture, a competitor, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware (the "Delaware Court") over our alleged infringement of certain of their intellectual property rights and related state law claims. Over time, both parties asserted additional claims against each other. In October 2011, we agreed with Accenture to resolve all outstanding litigation. In connection with the settlement, we paid $10.0 million to Accenture with a potential additional payment based on the final outcome of Accentures pending appeal of the Delaware Courts ruling of invalidity on one of Accenture's patents. In September 2013, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the "Federal Circuit") ruled in our favor, affirming the judgment of the Delaware Court and finding Accenture's patent invalid. Accenture may still request United States Supreme Court review or rehearing by the full Federal Circuit sitting en banc, and, if Accenture is allowed to appeal and is ultimately successful, then we have agreed to pay Accenture an additional $20.0 million. Otherwise, no further payments would be due in connection with the settlement. Our patent litigation with Accenture and the terms of the settlement are further described in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may expand through acquisitions of or partnerships with other companies, which may divert our managements attention and result in unexpected operating and technology integration difficulties, increased costs and dilution to our stockholders. In May 2013, we acquired Millbrook, Inc., a complementary business, and in September 2013, we announced a strategic alliance with Mitchell, Inc., a business which also services the P&C industry. In the future, our business strategy may include additional acquisitions of complementary software, technologies or businesses or alliances with businesses offering the same. Acquisitions and alliances may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties in assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, services, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, especially if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, and we may have difficulty retaining the existing customers or signing new customers of any acquired business. Acquisitions and alliances may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our current business. We also may be required to use a substantial amount of our cash or issue equity securities to complete an acquisition or realize the potential of an alliance, which could deplete our cash reserves and dilute our existing stockholders. Following an acquisition or the establishment of an alliance offering new products, we may be required to defer the recognition of revenues that we receive from the sale of products that we acquired or that result from the alliance, or from the sale of a bundle of products that includes such new products, if we have not established vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") for the undelivered elements in the arrangement. A delay in the recognition of revenues from sales of acquired or alliance products, or bundles that include the same, may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results and may adversely affect our operating margins. Additionally, competition within the software industry for acquisitions of businesses, technologies and assets has been, and may in the future continue to be, intense. As such, even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to consummate, the target may be acquired by another strategic buyer or financial buyer such as a private equity firm, or we may otherwise not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, including our revenues or return on investment assumptions, may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown liabilities as a result of such acquisition. We face intense competition in our market, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition and cause our market share to decline. The market for our core insurance system software is intensely competitive. Our implementation cycle is lengthy, variable and requires the investment of significant time and expense by our customers. We compete with legacy systems, many of which have been in operation for decades. Maintaining these legacy systems may be so time consuming and costly for our customers that they do not have adequate resources to devote to the purchase and implementation of our products. We also compete against technology consulting firms that offer software and systems or develop custom, proprietary products for the P&C insurance industry. These consulting firms generally have greater name recognition, larger sales and marketing budgets and greater resources than we do and may have pre-existing relationships with our potential customers, including relationships with, and access to, key decision makers within these organizations. We also encounter competition from small independent firms that compete on the basis of price, custom developments or unique product features or functions and from vendors of software products that may be customized to address the needs of P&C insurance carriers. 10 Table of Contents We expect the intensity of competition to remain high in the future as new companies enter our markets and existing competitors develop stronger capabilities. Such intense competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours, which could allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new technologies and changes in customer needs and achieve wider market acceptance. We may not be able to compete effectively and competitive pressures may prevent us from acquiring and maintaining the customer base necessary for us to increase our revenues and profitability. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. Current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources, such as Accentures acquisition of Duck Creek Technologies, Inc. in July 2011. As a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. Additionally, they may hold larger portfolios of patents and other intellectual property rights as a result of such acquisitions. If we are unable to compete effectively for a share of our market, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Certain of our software products may be deployed through cloud-based implementations, and if such implementations are compromised by data security breaches or other disruptions, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers or be subject to significant liabilities. Although our software products typically are deployed on our customers premises, some of our products are deployed in cloud-based environments we maintain and some of our products may be deployed in our customers cloud-based environments, in which our products and associated services are made available using an Internet-based infrastructure. In cloud deployments, our infrastructure and the infrastructure of third-party service providers used by both ourselves and our customers may be vulnerable to hacking incidents, other security breaches, computer viruses, telecommunications failures, power loss, other system failures and similar disruptions. Any of these occurrences, whether intentional or accidental, could lead to interruptions, delays or cessation of operation of our servers or the servers of third-party service providers used by our customers, and to the unauthorized use or access of our software and proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data stored or transmitted by our products. The inability of service providers used by our customers, or our own inability, to provide continuous access to hosted services, and to secure hosted services and associated customer information from unauthorized use, access or disclosure, could cause us reputational harm, loss of customers and could expose us to significant liability, all of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products experience data security breaches, and there is unauthorized access to our customers data, we may lose current or future customers and our reputation and business may be harmed. Our products are used by our customers to manage and store proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to their businesses. Although we maintain security features in our products, our security measures may not detect or prevent hacker interceptions, break-ins, security breaches, the introduction of viruses or malicious code, and other disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted by our products. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures in our products could misappropriate our or our customers proprietary or confidential information, cause interruption in operations, damage or misuse of computer systems, and misuse any information misappropriated. If any compromise of the security of our products were to occur, we may lose customers and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, if there is any perception that we cannot protect our customers proprietary and confidential information, we may lose the ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers and our revenues could decline. Weakened global economic conditions may adversely affect the P&C insurance industry, including the rate of information technology spending, which could cause our customers to defer or forego purchases of our products or services. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology from, and on the economic health of, our current and prospective customers. In addition, the purchase of our products is discretionary and involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources. The United States and world economies currently face a number of economic challenges, including threatened sovereign defaults, credit downgrades, restricted credit for businesses and consumers and potentially falling demand for a variety of products and services. Our customers may suffer from reduced operating budgets, which could cause them to 11 Table of Contents defer or forego purchases of our products or services. Challenging global economic conditions, or a reduction in information technology spending even if economic conditions improve, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, material default rates among our customers, reduced sales of our products and services and lower or no growth. Our sales cycle is lengthy and variable, depends upon many factors outside our control, and could cause us to expend significant time and resources prior to earning associated revenues. The typical sales cycle for our products and services is lengthy and unpredictable, requires pre-purchase evaluation by a significant number of employees in our customers organizations, and often involves a significant operational decision by our customers. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use and benefits of our products, including the technical capabilities of our products and the potential cost savings achievable by organizations deploying our products. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process, which frequently involves not only our products, but also those of our competitors and can result in a lengthy sales cycle. Moreover, a purchase decision by a potential customer typically requires the approval of several senior decision makers, including the board of directors of our customers. Our sales cycle for new customers is typically one to two years and can extend even longer in some cases. We spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, we sometimes commit to include specific functions in our base product offering at the request of a customer or group of customers and are unable to recognize license revenues until the specific functions have been added to our products. Providing this additional functionality may be time consuming and may involve factors that are outside of our control. The lengthy and variable sales cycle may also have a negative impact on the timing of our revenues, causing our revenues and results of operations to vary significantly from period to period. If we are unable to continue the successful development of our direct sales force and the expansion of our relationships with our strategic partners, sales of our products and services will suffer and our growth could be slower than we project. We believe that our future growth will depend on the continued development of our direct sales force and their ability to obtain new customers, particularly large P&C insurance carriers, and to manage our existing customer base. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenues in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of direct sales personnel. New hires require significant training and may, in some cases, take more than a year before becoming productive, if at all. If we are unable to hire and develop sufficient numbers of productive direct sales personnel, sales of our products and services will suffer and our growth will be impeded. We believe our future growth also will depend on the expansion of successful relationships with system integrators. Our system integrators as channel partners help us reach additional customers. Our growth in revenues, particularly in international markets, will be influenced by the development and maintenance of this indirect sales channel. Although we have established relationships with some of the leading system integrators, our products and services compete directly against the products and services of other leading system integrators, including Accenture. We are unable to control the resources that our system integrator partners commit to implementing our products or the quality of such implementation. If they do not commit sufficient resources to these activities, our business and results of operations could fail to grow in line with our projections. Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that result in increased cost of sales, decreased revenues and lower average selling prices and gross margins, all of which could harm our operating results. Some of our customers are large P&C insurance carriers with significant bargaining power in negotiations with us. In fiscal years 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , our top 10 customers accounted for 33% , 35% and 41% of our revenues, respectively. These customers have and may continue to seek advantageous pricing and other commercial terms and may require us to develop additional features in the products we sell to them. We have and may continue to be required to reduce the average selling price, or increase the average cost, of our products in response to these pressures. If we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices or increases in our average costs with increased sales volumes and reduced costs, our results of operations could be harmed. 12 Table of Contents Our limited operating history and the evolving nature of the industry in which we operate may make it difficult to evaluate our business. We were incorporated in 2001, and since that time have been developing products to meet the evolving demands of customers in the markets in which we operate. We sold the initial versions of ClaimCenter in 2003, PolicyCenter in 2004 and BillingCenter in 2006. This limited operating history makes financial forecasting and evaluation of our business difficult. Furthermore, because we depend in part on the markets acceptance of our products, it is difficult to evaluate trends that may affect our business. We have limited historical financial data, and we operate in an evolving industry, and, as such, any predictions about our future revenues and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in a more predictable industry. We have a history of significant net losses and may not be profitable in future periods. Although we have been profitable the past four fiscal years, we have incurred significant losses in prior years, including a net loss of $11.0 million in fiscal year 2009 and a net loss of $16.9 million in fiscal year 2008. We expect that our expenses will increase in future periods as we implement initiatives designed to grow our business, including, among other things, improvement of our current products, development and marketing of new services and products, stock-based compensation expense, international expansion, investment in our infrastructure, and increased general and administrative functions. If our revenues do not sufficiently increase to offset these expected increases in operating expenses, we will incur significant losses and will not be profitable. We may choose to increase expenses in future periods to further invest in future growth, which may cause us to become unprofitable in certain periods. Our growth in revenues in recent periods should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Any failure to continue profitability may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because we derive substantially all of our revenues and cash flows from our ClaimCenter, PolicyCenter, BillingCenter and InsuranceSuite products and related services, failure of any of these products or services to satisfy customer demands or to achieve increased market acceptance would harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. We derive substantially all of our revenues and cash flows from our ClaimCenter, PolicyCenter, BillingCenter and InsuranceSuite products and related services. We expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from these products and related services. As such, increased market acceptance of these products is critical to our continued growth and success. Demand for our products is affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including the timing of development and release of new products by us and our competitors, technological change, and growth or contraction in the worldwide market for technological solutions for the P&C insurance industry. If we are unable to continue to meet customer demands or to achieve more widespread market acceptance of our products, our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects will be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends on customers renewing and expanding their license and maintenance contracts for our products. A decline in our customer renewals and expansions could harm our future results of operations. Our customers have no obligation to renew their term licenses after their license period expires, and these licenses may not be renewed on the same or more favorable terms. Moreover, under certain circumstances, our customers have the right to cancel their license agreements before they expire. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer license renewals, upgrades and expansions so we may not accurately predict future trends in customer renewals. In addition, our term and perpetual license customers have no obligation to renew their maintenance arrangements after the expiration of the initial contractual period, which is typically one to three years. Our customers renewal rates may fluctuate or decline because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers spending levels due to the macroeconomic environment or other factors. In addition, in some cases, our customers have a right to exercise a perpetual buyout of their term licenses at the end of the initial contract term. If our customers do not renew their term licenses for our solutions or renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may decline or grow more slowly than expected and our profitability may be harmed. Our implementation cycle is lengthy and variable, depends upon factors outside our control, and could cause us to expend significant time and resources prior to earning associated revenues. The implementation and testing of our products by our customers lasts 6 to 24 months or longer and unexpected implementation delays and difficulties can occur. Implementing our products typically involves integration with our customers systems, as well as adding their data to our platform. This can be complex, time-consuming and expensive for our customers and can result in delays in the implementation and deployment of our products. Depending upon the nature and complexity of 13 Table of Contents our customers systems and the time and resources that our customers are willing to devote to implementation of our products, the implementation and testing of our products may take significantly longer than 24 months. Historically, under the zero gross margin method, until the implementation project was completed, we recognized revenues in connection with implementing our products up to the corresponding costs of revenues and operating expenses. The lengthy and variable implementation cycle may also have a negative impact on the timing of our revenues, causing our revenues and results of operations to vary significantly from period to period. Our product development cycles are lengthy, and we may incur significant expenses before we generate revenues, if any, from new products. Because our products are complex and require rigorous testing, development cycles can be lengthy, taking us multiple years to develop and introduce new products or provide updates to our existing products. Additionally, market conditions may dictate that we change the technology platform underlying our existing products or that new products be developed on different technology platforms, potentially adding material expense and time to our development cycles. Moreover, development projects can be technically challenging and expensive. The nature of these development cycles may cause us to experience delays between the time we incur expenses associated with research and development and the time we generate revenues, if any, from such expenses. If we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction or improvement of products that are competitive in the marketplace, this could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, anticipated customer demand for a product we are developing could decrease or not materialize after the development cycle has commenced. Such lower customer demand may cause us to fall short of our sales targets, and we may nonetheless be unable to avoid substantial costs associated with the products development. If we are unable to complete product development cycles successfully and in a timely fashion and generate revenues from such future products, the growth of our business may be harmed. Failure to meet customer expectations on the implementation of our products could result in negative publicity and reduced sales, both of which would significantly harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. We provide our customers with upfront estimates regarding the duration, budget and costs associated with the implementation of our products. Failing to meet these upfront estimates and the expectations of our customers for the implementation of our products could result in a loss of customers and negative publicity regarding us and our products and services, which could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and sell additional products and services to existing customers. Such failure could result from our product capabilities or service engagements by us, our system integrator partners or our customers IT employees. The consequences could include, and have included: monetary credits for current or future service engagements, reduced fees for additional product sales, and a customers refusal to pay their contractually-obligated license, maintenance or service fees. In addition, time-consuming implementations may also increase the amount of services personnel we must allocate to each customer, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for any undelivered element of a software order from a customer, offer certain contractual provisions to our customers, such as delivery of specified functionality, or combine multiple arrangements signed in different periods, our revenues relating to the entire software order will be deferred and recognized over future periods, reducing the revenues we recognize on a significant portion of such order in a particular quarter. In the course of our selling efforts, we typically enter into sales arrangements pursuant to which we license our software applications and provide maintenance support and professional services. We refer to each individual product or service as an element of the overall sales arrangement. These arrangements typically require us to deliver particular elements in a future period. We apply software revenue recognition rules and allocate the total revenues among elements based on the objective and reliable evidence of fair value, or VSOE of fair value of each element. As we discuss further in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, if we are unable to determine the VSOE of fair value of any undelivered elements, offer certain contractual provisions to our customers, such as delivery of specified functionality, or combine multiple arrangements signed in different periods, then we may be required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") to defer additional revenues to future periods. If we are required to defer additional revenues to future periods for a significant portion of our sales, our revenues for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Failure to protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to enforce and defend our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to do so. 14 Table of Contents We have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications related to certain of our innovations. We do not know whether any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. In addition, we may not receive competitive advantages from the rights granted under our patents and other intellectual property. Our existing patents, and any patents granted to us or that we otherwise acquire in the future, may be contested, circumvented or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing these patents. Therefore, the exact effect of the protection of these patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, given the costs, effort, risks and downside of obtaining patent protection, including the requirement to ultimately disclose the invention to the public, we may choose not to seek patent protection for certain innovations; however, such patent protection could later prove to be important to our business. We also rely on several registered and unregistered trademarks to protect our brand. We have registered the trademarks Guidewire, Guidewire PolicyCenter, Guidewire ClaimCenter and Guidewire BillingCenter in the United States and Canada. We also own a U.S. trademark registration, an International Registration (with protection extended to Australia and the European Community) and a Canada trademark for the Gosu trademark. Additionally, we own an Australia trademark registration, a Hong Kong trademark registration, and a Japan trademark registration for the Guidewire trademark. We have also registered the trademark Guidewire Software in the European Community. Finally, we own international registrations, designating China, the European Community and Russia, for the Guidewire trademark, all of which are pending. Nevertheless, competitors may adopt service names similar to ours, or purchase our trademarks and confusingly similar terms as keywords in Internet search engine advertising programs, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to confusion in the marketplace. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our trademarks. Any claims or customer confusion related to our trademarks could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property, technology, and confidential information by generally requiring our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements and third parties to enter into nondisclosure agreements, all of which offer only limited protection. These agreements may not effectively prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property or technology and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property or technology. Despite our efforts to protect our confidential information, intellectual property, and technology, unauthorized third parties may gain access to our confidential proprietary information, develop and market products or services similar to ours, or use trademarks similar to ours, any of which could materially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and confidential information, and in such cases, we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Existing U.S. federal, state and international intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as governmental agencies and private parties in the United States. Moreover, policing our intellectual property rights is difficult, costly and may not always be effective. From time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our technology and to adequately maintain and protect our intellectual property rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. We and our customers rely on technology and intellectual property of third parties, the loss of which could limit the functionality of our products and disrupt our business. We use technology and intellectual property licensed from unaffiliated third parties in certain of our products, and we may license additional third-party technology and intellectual property in the future. Any errors or defects in this third-party technology and intellectual property could result in errors that could harm our brand and business. In addition, licensed technology and intellectual property may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of the right to license and distribute this third party technology could limit the functionality of our products and might require us to redesign our products. Further, although we believe that there are currently adequate replacements for the third-party technology and intellectual property we presently use and distribute, the loss of our right to use any of this technology and intellectual property could result in delays in producing or delivering affected products until equivalent technology or intellectual property is identified, licensed or otherwise procured, and integrated. Our business would be disrupted if any technology and intellectual property we license 15 Table of Contents from others or functional equivalents of this software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required either to attempt to redesign our products to function with technology and intellectual property available from other parties or to develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in product sales and the release of new product offerings. Alternatively, we might be forced to limit the features available in affected products. Any of these results could harm our business and impact our results of operations. Catastrophes may adversely impact the P&C insurance industry, preventing us from expanding or maintaining our existing customer base and increasing our revenues. Our customers are P&C insurance carriers which have experienced, and will likely experience in the future, catastrophe losses that adversely impact their businesses. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including, amongst others, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornados, explosions, severe weather and fires. Global warming trends are contributing to an increase in erratic weather patterns globally and intensifying the impact of certain types of catastrophes. Moreover, acts of terrorism or war could cause disruptions in our or our customers businesses or the economy as a whole. The risks associated with natural disasters and catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is difficult to predict the timing of such events or estimate the amount of loss they will generate. In the event a future catastrophe adversely impacts our current or potential customers, we may be prevented from maintaining and expanding our customer base and from increasing our revenues because such events may cause customers to postpone purchases of new products and professional service engagements or discontinue projects. There may be consolidation in the P&C insurance industry, which could reduce the use of our products and services and adversely affect our revenues. Mergers or consolidations among our customers could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers. This could adversely affect our revenues even if these events do not reduce the aggregate number of customers or the activities of the consolidated entities. If our customers merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our products and services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our products and services. Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Some of our services and technologies may use open source software, which may restrict how we use or distribute our services or require that we release the source code of certain products subject to those licenses. Some of our services and technologies may incorporate software licensed under so-called open source licenses, including, but not limited to, the GNU General Public License and the GNU Lesser General Public License. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. Additionally, open source licenses typically require that source code subject to the license be made available to the public and that any modifications or derivative works to open source software continue to be licensed under open source licenses. These open source licenses typically mandate that proprietary software, when combined in specific ways with open source software, become subject to the open source license. If we combine our proprietary software in such ways with open source software, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. We take steps to ensure that our proprietary software is not combined with, and does not incorporate, open source software in ways that would require our proprietary software to be subject to an open source license. However, few courts have interpreted open source licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is therefore subject to some uncertainty. Additionally, we rely on multiple software programmers to design our proprietary technologies, and although we take steps to prevent our programmers from including open source software in the technologies and software code that they design, write and modify, we do not exercise complete control over the development efforts of our programmers and we cannot be certain that our programmers have not incorporated open source software into our proprietary products and technologies or that they will not do so in the future. In the event that portions of our proprietary technology are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies, or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our services and technologies and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. 16 Table of Contents Real or perceived errors or failures in our products, or unsatisfactory performance of our products or services could adversely affect our reputation and the market acceptance of our products, and cause us to lose customers or subject us to liability for breach of warranty claims. Because we offer complex products, undetected errors or failures may exist or occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures or bugs in our products. Despite testing by us, we may not identify all errors, failures or bugs in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial sales or installation. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures and bugs in some of our product offerings after their introduction. Product errors will affect the performance of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our customers willingness to buy products from us, and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. In addition, because our software is used to manage functions that are critical to our customers, the licensing and support of our products may involve the risk of product liability claims. We also may face liability for breaches of our product warranties, product failures or damages caused by faulty installation of our products. Provisions in our contracts relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations may be unenforceable or otherwise ineffective. Any errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance of our products or services could cause us to lose revenues or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, cause us to lose significant customers, harm our reputation, subject us to liability for breach of warranty claims or damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be obligated to disclose our proprietary source code to our customers, which may limit our ability to protect our intellectual property and could reduce the renewals of our support and maintenance services. Our software license agreements typically contain provisions permitting the customer to become a party to, or a beneficiary of, a source code escrow agreement under which we place the proprietary source code for our products in escrow with a third party. Under these escrow agreements, the source code to the applicable product may be released to the customer, typically for its use to maintain, modify and enhance the product, upon the occurrence of specified events, such as our filing for bankruptcy, discontinuance of our maintenance services and breaching our representations, warranties or covenants of our agreements with our customers. Additionally, in some cases, customers have the right to request access to our source code upon demand. Some of our customers have obtained the source code for our products by exercising this right, and others may do so in the future. Disclosing the content of our source code may limit the intellectual property protection we can obtain or maintain for that source code or the products containing that source code and may facilitate intellectual property infringement claims against us. It also could permit a customer to which a products source code is disclosed to support and maintain that software product without being required to purchase our support or maintenance services. Each of these could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Incorrect or improper use of our products or our failure to properly train customers on how to implement or utilize our products could result in customer dissatisfaction and negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. Our products are complex and are deployed in a wide variety of network environments. The proper use of our products requires training of the customer. If our products are not used correctly or as intended, inadequate performance may result. Additionally, our customers or third-party partners may incorrectly implement or use our products. Our products may also be intentionally misused or abused by customers or their employees or third parties who are able to access or use our products. Similarly, our products are sometimes installed or maintained by customers or third parties with smaller or less qualified IT departments, potentially resulting in sub-optimal installation and, consequently, performance that is less than the level anticipated by the customer. Because our customers rely on our products, services and maintenance support to manage a wide range of operations, the incorrect or improper use of our products, our failure to properly train customers on how to efficiently and effectively use our products, or our failure to properly provide implementation or maintenance services to our customers may result in negative publicity or legal claims against us. Also, as we continue to expand our customer base, any failure by us to properly provide these services will likely result in lost opportunities for follow-on sales of our products and services. 17 Table of Contents In addition, if there is substantial turnover of customer personnel responsible for implementation and use of our products, or if customer personnel are not well trained in the use of our products, customers may defer the deployment of our products, may deploy them in a more limited manner than originally anticipated or may not deploy them at all. Further, if there is substantial turnover of the customer personnel responsible for implementation and use of our products, our ability to make additional sales may be substantially limited. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our professional services and technical support services and the support of our partners, and the failure of us or our partners to offer high-quality professional services or technical support services could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services to new customers and renew our licenses to existing customers. If we or our system integration providers do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. Once our products are deployed and integrated with our customers existing information technology investments and data, our customers may depend on our technical support services and/or the support of system integrators or internal resources to resolve any issues relating to our products. High-quality support is critical for the continued successful marketing and sale of our products. In addition, as we continue to expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. Many enterprise customers require higher levels of support than smaller customers. If we fail to meet the requirements of our larger customers, it may be more difficult to increase our penetration with larger customers, which is key to the growth of our revenues and profitability. As we rely more on system integrators to provide deployment and on-going support, our ability to ensure a high level of quality in addressing customer issues is diminished. Our failure to maintain high-quality implementation and support services, or to ensure that system integrators provide the same, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. If we are unable to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage. Our success depends on our continued ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products to meet evolving customer requirements. However, we cannot assure that this process can be maintained. If we fail to develop new products or enhancements to our existing products, our business could be adversely affected, especially if our competitors are able to introduce products with enhanced functionality. We plan to continue our investment in product development in future periods. It is critical to our success for us to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards and customer requirements and to successfully introduce new, enhanced and competitive products to meet our customers and prospective customers needs on a timely basis. However, we cannot assure that revenues will be sufficient to support the future product development that is required for us to be competitive. Although we may be able to release new products in addition to enhancements to existing products, we cannot assure that our new or upgraded products will be accepted by the market, will not be delayed or canceled, will not contain errors or bugs that could affect the performance of the products or cause damage to users data, or will not be rendered obsolete by the introduction of new products or technological developments by others. If we fail to develop products that are competitive in technology and price and fail to meet customer needs, our market share will decline and our business and results of operations could be harmed. We may be subject to significant liability claims if our core system software fails and the limitation of liability provided in our license agreements may not protect us, which may adversely impact our financial condition. The license and support of our core system software creates the risk of significant liability claims against us. Our license agreements with our customers contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in such license agreements may not be enforced as a result of international, federal, state and local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. Breach of warranty or damage liability or injunctive relief resulting from such claims could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to retain our personnel and hire and integrate additional skilled personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals and our business will suffer. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to attract, train, integrate and retain highly skilled employees, particularly our management team, sales and marketing personnel, professional services personnel and software engineers. Each of our executive officers and other key employees could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. The loss of any member of our senior management team might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business or 18 Table of Contents development objectives and could materially harm our business. In addition, many of our senior management personnel are substantially vested in their stock option grants or other equity compensation. While we periodically grant additional equity awards to management personnel and other key employees to provide additional incentives to remain employed by us, employees may be more likely to leave us if a significant portion of their equity compensation is fully vested, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly appreciated in value. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, may seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous software and other technology companies. In addition, competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located. Often, significant amounts of time and resources are required to train technical, sales and other personnel. We have a limited number of sales people. The loss of some of these sales people in a short period of time could have a negative impact on our sales efforts. Further, qualified individuals are in high demand. We may incur significant costs to attract and retain them, and we may lose new employees to our competitors or other technology companies before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting and training them. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing technical, operational and managerial requirements, on a timely basis or at all, and we may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. Because of the technical nature of our products and services and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to attract, integrate and retain qualified direct sales, professional services and product development personnel, as well as our contract workers, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate sales or successfully develop new products, customer and consulting services and enhancements of existing products. Also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. Our ability to effectively use equity compensation to help attract and retain qualified personnel may be limited by our stockholders, and equity compensation arrangements may negatively impact our results of operations. We intend to continue to issue stock options and restricted stock units as key components of our overall compensation and employee attraction and retention efforts. We may face pressure from stockholders, who must approve extraordinary increases in our equity compensation pool, to limit the use of equity-based compensation so as to minimize its dilutive effect on stockholders. In addition, we are required under GAAP to recognize compensation expense in our results of operations for employee share-based equity compensation under our equity grants, which may negatively impact our results of operations and may increase the pressure to limit equity-based compensation. These factors may make it more difficult or unlikely for us to continue granting attractive equity-based compensation packages to our employees, which could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain key employees. If we lose any senior executive or other key employee, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to manage our rapid growth effectively could harm our business. We have recently experienced rapid growth, and expect to continue to experience growth, in our number of employees and in our international operations that has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our operational and financial resources and our personnel. To manage our anticipated future growth effectively, we must continue to maintain and may need to enhance our information technology infrastructure, financial and accounting systems and controls and manage expanded operations and employees in geographically distributed locations. We also must attract, train and retain a significant number of additional qualified sales and marketing personnel, professional services personnel, software engineers, technical personnel and management personnel. Our failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of new services or product enhancements. For example, since it may take as long as six months to hire and train a new member of our professional services staff, we make decisions regarding the size of our professional services staff based upon our expectations with respect to customer demand for our products and services. If these expectations are incorrect, and we increase the size of our professional services organization without experiencing an increase in sales of our products and services, we will experience reductions in our gross and operating margins and net income. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our revenues could decline or grow more slowly than expected and we may be unable to implement our business strategy. We also intend to continue to expand into additional international markets which, if not technologically or commercially successful, could harm our financial condition and prospects. 19 Table of Contents Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We sell our products and services to customers located outside the United States and Canada, and we are continuing to expand our international operations as part of our growth strategy. In fiscal years 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , 28% , 30% and 34% of our revenues, respectively, were derived from outside of the United States and Canada. Our current international operations and our plans to expand our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: increased management, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with having multiple international operations; unique terms and conditions in contract negotiations imposed by customers in foreign countries; longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable; the need to localize our products and licensing programs for international customers; lack of familiarity with and unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; increased exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and legal standards; compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption regulations, particularly in emerging market countries; import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; weaker protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; multiple and possibly overlapping tax regimes; and political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Any of these risks could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Because our customer contracts are highly negotiated, they often include unique terms and conditions that require judgment with respect to revenue recognition. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the New York Stock Exchange, impose additional requirements on public companies, including specific corporate governance practices. During fiscal year 2013, we were required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and incurred costs to implement additional internal controls as well as to obtain an independent auditors report on our internal control over financial reporting. Additionally, the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange require that we satisfy numerous corporate governance requirements. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. We may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, including to: hire additional personnel; develop new or enhance existing products and services; enhance our operating infrastructure; acquire businesses or technologies; or otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we incur additional funds through debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, thus limiting funds available for our business activities. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, when we desire them, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products and services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Any of these factors could harm our results of operations. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. Preparing our consolidated financial statements involves a number of complex manual and automated processes, which are dependent upon individual data input or review and require significant management judgment. One or more of these elements may result in errors that may not be detected and could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that as a publicly-traded company we disclose whether our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure