Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements may include statements concerning, among other things, our business strategy (including anticipated trends and developments in, and management plans for, our business and the markets in which we operate), financial results, results of operations, revenue, gross margins, operating expenses, products, projected costs and capital expenditures, research and development programs, sales and marketing initiatives, and competition. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words, such as will, may, might, should, could, estimate, expect, suggest, believe, anticipate, intend, plan and continue, the negative or plural of these words and other comparable terminology. Actual events or results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors, including but not limited to the matters discussed below, in the section titled Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Many of the forward-looking statements are located in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements regarding: growth prospects of the property & casualty (P&C) insurance industry and our company; the developing market for subscription services and uncertainties attendant on emerging sales and delivery models, including the migration of our existing term license customers to subscription services; trends in and timing of future sales, including the mix between license and subscription revenue and seasonality; our competitive environment and changes thereto; competitive attributes of our software applications and delivery models; the timing and number of professional services engagements and the billing rates and utilization of our professional services employees and contractors; challenges to further increase sales both in the United States and internationally; our research and development and cloud operations investment and efforts; expenses to be incurred, and benefits to be achieved, from our acquisitions; our gross and operating margins and factors that affect such margins; including costs related to operating, securing and enhancing our subscription services; our provision for tax liabilities, judgments related to revenue recognition, and other critical accounting estimates; the impact of new regulations and laws, including tax laws and accounting standards; our exposure to market risks, including geographical and political events that may negatively impact our customers, partners, and vendors or our business operations; the effect of uncertainties related to the global COVID-19 pandemic and U.S. presidential election on U.S. and global economies, our business, our employees, results of operations, financial condition, demand for our products, sales and implementation cycles, and the health of our customers' and partners' businesses; our ability to successfully defend litigation brought against us; and our ability to satisfy future liquidity requirements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on information available to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our current expectations about future events, which are inherently subject to change and involve risks and uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this report or in any of our other communications, except as required by law. All such forward-looking statements should be read as of the time the statements were made and with the recognition that these forward-looking statements may not be complete or accurate at a later date. _________________________________________________________ Unless the context requires otherwise, we are referring to Guidewire Software, Inc. together with its subsidiaries when we use the terms Guidewire, the Company, we, our or us. Table of Contents Item 1. Business Overview Guidewire delivers the platform Property and Casualty (P&C) insurers trust to engage, innovate, and grow efficiently. Guidewires platform combines core operations, digital engagement, analytics, and artificial intelligence (AI) applications delivered as a cloud service or self-managed software. As a partner to our customers, we continually evolve to enable their success, and assist them in navigating a rapidly changing insurance market. Our core operational products are InsuranceSuite via Guidewire Cloud, InsuranceNow, and InsuranceSuite for self-managed installations. These products are core transactional systems of record that support the entire insurance lifecycle, including insurance product definition, distribution, underwriting, policyholder services, and claims management. InsuranceSuite via Guidewire Cloud is a highly configurable and scalable product, delivered as a service and primarily comprised of three core applications (PolicyCenter, BillingCenter, and ClaimCenter) that can be subscribed to separately or together. These applications are optimized for our Guidewire Cloud Platform (GWCP) architecture and leverage our in-house Guidewire Cloud operations team. InsuranceSuite via Guidewire Cloud is designed to support multiple releases a year to ensure that cloud customers remain on the latest version and gain rapid access to our innovation efforts. Additionally, InsuranceSuite via Guidewire Cloud has the ability to embed digital and analytics capabilities natively into our platform. Most new sales and implementations are for InsuranceSuite via Guidewire Cloud. InsuranceNow is a complete, cloud-based application that offers policy, billing, and claims management functionality to insurers that have limited IT resources. InsuranceSuite for self-managed is comprised of three core applications (PolicyCenter, BillingCenter, and ClaimCenter) that can be licensed separately or together and can be deployed and updated by our customers and their implementation partners. Our digital engagement applications enable digital sales, omni-channel service, and enhanced claims experiences for policyholders, agents, vendor partners, and field personnel. Our Guidewire Analytics and AI offerings enable insurers to manage data more effectively, gain insights into their business, drive operational efficiencies, and underwrite new and evolving risks. To support P&C insurers globally, we have localized, and will continue to localize, our platform for use in a variety of international regulatory, language, and currency environments. Our customers range from some of the largest global insurance companies or their subsidiaries to predominantly national or local insurers that serve specific states and/or regions. Our customer engagement is led by our direct sales team and supported by our system integrator (SI) partners. We maintain and continue to grow our sales and marketing efforts globally, and maintain regional sales centers throughout the world. We sell our cloud-delivered offerings through subscription services and our self-managed products through term licenses. We generally price our products and services based on the amount of direct written premium (DWP) that will be managed by our platform. Our subscription, term license, and support fees are typically invoiced annually in advance. Subscription services are generally sold with an initial term of between three and five years with optional annual renewals commencing after the initial term. Subscription revenue is recognized on a ratable basis over the committed term, once all revenue recognition criteria is met including providing access to the service. Term licenses are primarily sold with an initial two-year committed term with optional annual renewals commencing after the initial term. We may enter into term license arrangements with our customers that have an initial term of more than two years or may renew license arrangements for longer than one year. A small portion of our revenue is derived from perpetual licenses. Term and perpetual license revenue are typically recognized when software is made available to the customer, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. We also offer professional services, both directly and through partners, to help our customers deploy, migrate, and utilize our products and platform. Substantially all of our services revenue is billed on a time and materials basis. We began our principal business operations in 2001. Industry Background The P&C insurance industry is large, fragmented, highly regulated, and complex. It is also highly competitive, with insurers competing primarily on product differentiation, pricing options, customer service, marketing and advertising, affiliate programs, and channel strategies. P&C insurers modernize their transactional core systems to manage key functional areas of P&C insurance, including product definition, underwriting and policy administration, claims management, and billing. Product definition specifies the insurance coverage, pricing, and financial and legal terms of insurance policies. Underwriting and policy administration includes collecting information from potential policyholders, determining appropriate coverages and terms, pricing policies, issuing policies, and updating and maintaining policies over their lifetimes. Claims management includes loss intake, Table of Contents investigation and evaluation of incidents, settlement negotiation, vendor management, litigation management, and payment processing. Billing includes policyholder invoicing, payment collection, and agent commission calculation. We believe insurers that adopt modern core systems can enhance customer experience, operate more efficiently, and introduce innovative products more rapidly. We believe the P&C insurance industry is experiencing accelerating change in how insurers engage with, sell to, and manage relationships with individual and business customers. Today, P&C insurers are striving to respond to significant changes in their competitive marketplace and the character of the risks they underwrite. The most significant changes include: an industry rapidly going through change that requires agility and efficiency from its core systems; a rise in customer expectations for digital, omni-channel interaction rather than the traditional agent model; a need for 100% digital engagement capabilities; a growth in demand for personalized products and services; an increase in technology and market-driven changes in vehicular risk; demand for coverage of emerging risks such as terrorism, cybersecurity, pandemic, and reputational risk; a wealth of data and desire to harness data to improve and grow business; advances in the use of data and analytics to better market to and engage with customers, price policies, and manage claims; development of opportunities to compete or partner with non-traditional players that offer disruptive technology-based value propositions; established industry leaders are facing increased competition from new entrants in the market, including insurtech companies; and the introduction and leveraging of new technologies, such as drones, artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things, chatbots, and telematics. Many of these trends have been accelerated as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. In response to these trends, changes, challenges, and opportunities, we believe that the P&C insurance industry is entering a phase of increasing investment in technology, characterized by investments in systems that increase agility and the growing adoption of new digital engagement and analytics offerings. While each insurer may have different goals and priorities when pursuing new technology investments, there are several major themes that we believe guide these investments: Legacy System Modernization . A significant portion of the market continues to rely on legacy systems. We believe new claims, policy management, and billing systems will continue to be adopted as insurers that rely on legacy systems seek to gain operating efficiencies, expand into new markets and lines of business, and introduce new digital and data offerings. Digital Engagement Models . We believe that insurers will need to provide a more intuitive, digital user experience to reduce the risk of customer dissatisfaction and loss. Investment in digital user experience will allow insurers to deepen their engagement with customers and transition from passive and transactional customer interactions to active and advisory relationships. This transition will require investments in software products and services that are designed to model user journeys and enable more frequent, informed, and dynamic interactions between insurers and their customers. We believe these efforts can improve financial performance for insurers through increased lead conversions and lower customer churn. Cloud-Delivered Solutions . We believe that increased recognition of the compelling economic benefits of deploying software solutions on public infrastructure combined with increased confidence in the security and reliability of such platforms will cause more insurers to consider cloud-deployed solutions. Insurers benefit from an optimized division of labor and risk, allowing third parties to manage their infrastructure as they focus on competitively differentiating activities. Data Driven Decision-Making . Insurers are seeking to explore, visualize, and analyze proprietary and third-party data to optimize decision-making across the insurance lifecycle. We believe that such predictive analytical solutions are most effective when they provide predictive scores and other analytical insights to insurers employees as they perform their underwriting and claims management activities. Insurers may also apply data and machine learning to automate certain tasks whenever possible, thereby enabling efficiencies, such as straight-through processing, that lessen the burden on subject matter experts. Table of Contents Innovation . Insurers are under pressure to innovate across their product lifecycle in order to grow their business and improve service quality. Examples of focus areas include creating products to target under-insured risks such as cyber, supply chain disruption, and reputational risk and partnering with insurtech providers to streamline operations and improve service to policyholders and agents. Products Guidewire is designed to be the platform insurers trust in order to engage, innovate, and grow efficiently. Our platform combines core operations, digital engagement, analytics, and AI applications, so that insurers can increase revenue, reduce operational costs and losses, improve pricing, and engage with a customer base that increasingly demands mobile and automated forms of self-service and communication. We are investing in research and development to accelerate improvements in our products, cloud platform, and marketplace to serve our customers. Core Operational Products We offer the following core operational products: Guidewire InsuranceSuite via Guidewire Cloud, Guidewire InsuranceNow, and Guidewire InsuranceSuite for Self-Managed. Guidewire InsuranceSuite via Guidewire Cloud Guidewire InsuranceSuite via Guidewire Cloud is comprised of three primary applications (PolicyCenter, BillingCenter, and ClaimCenter) optimized for our Guidewire Cloud Platform (GWCP) architecture, including some multi-tenant cloud-native services. We offer several complementary applications designed to work seamlessly with these primary applications. InsuranceSuite via Guidewire Cloud is managed by our internal cloud operations team. Guidewire PolicyCenter is our flexible underwriting and policy administration application that serves as a comprehensive system-of-record supporting the entire policy lifecycle, including product definition, underwriting, quoting, binding, issuance, endorsements, audits, cancellations, and renewals. Guidewire BillingCenter automates the billing lifecycle, enables the design of a wide variety of billing and payment plans, manages agent commissions, and integrates with external payment systems. Guidewire ClaimCenter is a complete end-to-end claims management solution that offers core claims functionality. These primary applications also include predictive analytics that drive smart decisions, digital engagement, and an ecosystem of partners and insurtechs. GWCP is a Guidewire-developed architecture layer built on top of Amazon Web Services (AWS) that provides specialized cloud services for enterprise applications and analytics. The Guidewire Data Platform is a P&C insurance-specific data repository, built on GWCP, which collects data from internal and external sources to provide analytical insights across the insurance lifecycle for our customers. The Guidewire Data Platform powers all analytical applications. Additionally, we provide tools to automate routine tasks and make tasks self-service to increase our customers agility while providing enterprise-grade performance, availability, privacy, and security. In fiscal year 2020, we introduced a number of multi-tenant, cloud-native services that integrate digital experiences and analytics. We expect these cloud-native capabilities to grow and improve over time. Given the specialized needs of the P&C insurance industry, we have developed a scalable cloud architecture that enables isolating each customers system of record and database instances. This approach provides our customers with the benefits of cloud-native infrastructure and services and the flexibility to provide differentiated services to their customers. Subscriptions to cloud services include regular updates to Guidewire software to ensure that Guidewire Cloud customers can easily access our latest innovations. New capabilities are often toggled-off so that customers can activate them at the right time for their businesses. This capability enables our customers to deliver improvements at a steady pace, optimized for their employees and customers. We take full responsibility for operating our cloud services. Subscriptions include Guidewire Cloud Assurance Services, which provides for review of all configurations and integrations to ensure they follow published standards, best practices and required security methodologies. Furthermore, we monitor application performance and optimize user adoption and experience. Guidewire InsuranceNow Guidewire InsuranceNow is a complete, cloud-based platform for P&C insurers in the United States with limited technology resources, that offers policy, billing, and claims management functionality to insurers that increases agility without adding complexity. Guidewire InsuranceSuite for Self-Managed Guidewire InsuranceSuite for Self-Managed is comprised of three primary applications (PolicyCenter, BillingCenter, and ClaimCenter) that can be licensed separately or together and can be deployed and updated by our customers and their implementation partners on their premises or in a third-party cloud infrastructure. Table of Contents Guidewire InsuranceSuite: Complementary Applications We offer several complementary applications designed to work seamlessly with our core operational products, including: Guidewire Rating Management Guidewire Rating Management enables P&C insurers to manage the pricing of their insurance products. Guidewire Reinsurance Management Guidewire Reinsurance Management enables P&C insurers to use rules-based logic to execute their reinsurance strategy through their underwriting and claims processes. Guidewire Client Data Management Guidewire Client Data Management helps P&C insurers capitalize on customer information more coherently, overcoming traditional siloed practices that impair efficiency and customer service. Guidewire Product Content Management Guidewire Product Content Management provides software tools and standards-based, line-of-business templates to enable insurers to more rapidly introduce and modify products by reducing product configuration and maintenance efforts. Any such product introduction or modification must connect to and incorporate regulatory or industry-standard data and content, such as Insurance Services Office (ISO) or National Council on Compensation Insurance (NCCI) content. Guidewire Underwriting Management Guidewire Underwriting Management is a cloud-based, integrated business application designed for commercial and specialty line insurers to drive premium growth and profit from better underwriting. This feature-rich workstation delivers straight-through processing, exception-based underwriting, real-time collaboration, and knowledge management in one integrated solution. Guidewire Underwriting Management is typically sold alongside Guidewire PolicyCenter, although it functions with other policy administration systems as well. Guidewire AppReader Guidewire AppReader is a submission intake management solution that enables P&C insurers to process Association for Cooperative Operations Research and Development (ACORD) forms faster and more accurately than with manual processes or traditional upload solutions. AppReader is available for both Guidewire Underwriting Management and Guidewire PolicyCenter. Guidewire ClaimCenter Package for the London Market Guidewire ClaimCenter Package for the London Market supports the claims workflow used by London Market insurers and brokers. Integration of London Market Electronic Claims File (ECF) Write-Back lets insurers perform tasks and interact with the central industry market Claims Loss and Advice Settlement system directly from Guidewire ClaimCenter through message queues. Digital Engagement Guidewire Digital Engagement Applications Our Digital Engagement Applications enable insurers to provide digital experiences to customers, agents, vendors, and field personnel through their device of choice. As consumers increasingly use self-service functions on the internet and on mobile devices, we believe that many of them prefer to interact with their insurance providers digitally and that they expect to have a consistent and efficient transactional experience through multiple channels, whether online, in-person or by phone. Our Digital Engagement Applications also benefit agents and brokers who are seeking to automate business processes with insurers to improve customer service and productivity. In order to provide a holistic experience, Digital Applications are unified with InsuranceSuite. Guidewire for Salesforce Guidewire for Salesforce integrates Guidewire core systems with Salesforce for insurance carrier agents and service representatives. It provides customer information regarding their policies and claims. Analytics and Artificial Intelligence We offer a variety of applications that allow insurers to uncover hidden opportunities and write more profitable business by enabling a seamless path from data to value. Table of Contents Guidewire Predictive Analytics Guidewire Predictive Analytics is a set of cloud-native applications that allow insurers to deliver better business outcomes throughout the insurance lifecycle. By building (or importing) predictive models built from multiple data sets, designing comprehensive solutions, and operationalizing the predictive insights in core platforms, Predictive Analytics enables a smart core system. Applications include Predictive Analytics for Claims and Predictive Analytics for Profitability. Guidewire Risk Insights Guidewire Risk Insights is a set of cloud-native applications that allows insurers to assess new and evolving risks. Through a process called data listening, Guidewire Risk Insights collects technical and behavioral data from a variety of sources (including public, open-source, proprietary, and third-party) to quantify risk losses and probabilities. Applications include Cyence for Cyber Risk Management, Cyence for Small Business, and Cyence for Personal Cyber. Guidewire Business Intelligence Guidewire Business Intelligence is a set of cloud-native applications that allows insurers to measure business performance consistently and accurately. It enables claims, underwriting, sales, and service teams to collaborate and make informed decisions. It also provides P&C insurance industry context around performance measures with comparable peer-insurer benchmarks. Applications include Explore and Compare. Guidewire DataHub and InfoCenter Guidewire DataHub is an operational data store that unifies, standardizes, and stores data from the patchwork of insurers systems as well as from external sources. It is available for self-managed customers as this functionality is replaced by Cloud Data Platform for InsuranceSuite Cloud customers. Guidewire DataHub also enables insurers to accelerate legacy system replacement. Guidewire InfoCenter is a business intelligence warehouse for P&C insurers that provides information in easy-to-use formats for business intelligence, analysis, and enhanced decision making. With Guidewire InfoCenter, insurers gain flexible operational insights as well as the ability to optimize their business. Guidewire Marketplace The Guidewire Marketplace is where insurers find trusted applications and content that complement the Guidewire platform from our PartnerConnect partners, as well as from Guidewire product and services teams. These applications and content help insurers to rapidly innovate and differentiate their businesses, helping them to build out an ecosystem that best meets their needs. As of July 31, 2020, the Guidewire Marketplace has over 140 partner developed integrations and hundreds of Guidewire developed resources available for download. Technology Our platform is designed to assist P&C insurers to grow their business, improve customer and agent engagement, lower operating costs, and improve decision making. We have increased the scope of our platform and business through internal development and acquisitions. This growing scope has required greater investment in the development of application interfaces and shared services necessary to unify the operations and user experience across our applications. To meet the anticipated increased demand for cloud-delivered solutions, we have increased investments to leverage the growing number of technology services provided by Amazon through AWS. The shift to cloud-delivered solutions has also required significant focus in improving our ability to manage and operate our applications since our cloud-based deployments, unlike our self-managed implementations, shift many operational responsibilities to us. Finally, we continue to improve the scalability of our service, which performs millions of complex, business-critical transactions daily. This accuracy must be maintained not only during normal business operations, but also during extraordinary events such as catastrophes, which may result in extremely high transaction volume in a short period of time. Services We provide implementation and integration services to help our customers realize the benefits of our software products and cloud-based services. Our implementation teams assist customers in building implementation plans, integrating our software with their existing systems, and defining business rules and specific requirements unique to each customer. We also partner with leading system integration consulting firms, certified on our software, to achieve scalable, cost-effective implementations for our customers. Table of Contents Customers We market and sell our products to a wide variety of global P&C insurers ranging from some of the largest global insurers to national and regional companies. We believe strong customer relationships are a key driver of our success given the long-term nature of our customer engagements and importance of customer references for new sales. We focus on developing and maintaining our customer relationships through customer service and account management. As of July 31, 2020, we had more than 340 customers representing over 400 insurance brands, also referred to as insurers, using one or more of our products in 35 countries. We updated our definition of a customer in fiscal year 2020, and it is now defined as entities that have placed orders for our products and services. In some instances, an entity can have multiple insurance brands. Using our updated customer definition, we had approximately the same number of customers as of July 31, 2019. Strategic Relationships We have extensive relationships with system integration (SI), consulting, technology, and industry partners. Our network of partners has expanded as interest in and adoption of our platform has grown. We encourage our partners to co-market, pursue joint sales initiatives, and drive broader adoption of our technology, helping us grow our business more efficiently and enabling us to focus our resources on continued innovation and further enhancement of our solutions. We work closely with our network of third-party SI partners to facilitate new sales and implementations of both our self-managed products and subscription services. Our partnerships with leading SI partners allow us to increase efficiency and scale while reducing customer implementation costs. We continue to invest time and resources to increase the number of qualified consultants employed by our SI partners, develop relationships with new partners in existing and new markets, and ensure that all SI partners are qualified to assist with implementing our products. We believe this model will continue to serve us well, and we intend to continue to expand our network of partners and the number of certified consultants with whom we work so we can leverage our SI partners more effectively, especially for future subscription implementations. As part of our PartnerConnect alliance program, we have a community of Solution Partners developing integrations that enable software and insurance business solutions to interoperate with our products. As of July 31, 2020, more than 140 of these partner-developed integrations have been validated by us and awarded Ready for Guidewire branding. The Guidewire Marketplace provides our customers with an online forum to learn about and download Ready for Guidewire integrations for use with our products. These integrations help customers reduce implementation risk and effort, and lower the total cost of implementation and operation. The Guidewire Marketplace also empowers customers pursuing innovation initiatives by providing access to a curated collection of insurtech applications. We anticipate expanding the reach of the Guidewire Marketplace. Sales and Marketing Consistent with our industry focus and the mission-critical needs our products address, our sales and marketing efforts are tailored to communicate effectively to senior executives within the P&C insurance industry. Our sales, marketing, and executive teams work together to cultivate long-term relationships with current and prospective customers in each of the geographies in which we are active. Our direct sales team serves as both our exclusive sales channel and our account management function and is organized by geographic region across the Americas, EMEA, and APAC. We augment our sales professionals with a pre-sales team possessing insurance domain and technical expertise, who engage customers to understand their specific business needs and then represent our products through demonstrations tailored to address those needs. Our marketing team supports sales with competitive analysis and sales tools, while investing to strengthen our brand name and reputation. We participate at industry conferences, are published frequently in the industry press, and have active relationships with all of the major industry analysts. We also host Connections, our annual user conference where customers both participate in and deliver presentations on a wide range of Guidewire and insurance technology topics. We invite potential customers and partners to our user conference, as we believe customer references are a key component of driving new sales. Our strong relationships with leading system integrators enhance our direct sales through co-marketing efforts and by providing additional market validation of the distinctiveness and quality of our offerings. Research and Development Our research and development efforts focus on enhancing our products to meet the complex requirements of P&C insurers with a focus on capabilities, operational efficiency, security, and privacy in the cloud. These efforts are intended to help our customers improve their operations; drive greater digital engagement with their customers, agents, and brokers; and gather, store and analyze data to improve business decisions. We also invest significantly in developing our products and services and necessary integrations to meet the market requirements, including regulations, language, currency, and local Table of Contents terminology, of each country or state in which our customers operate. This market-segment specific functionality must be updated regularly in order to stay current with regulatory changes in each market. We rely on a multi-national engineering team, which has grown organically and through acquisitions. Competition The software market that caters to the P&C insurance industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Increased spending by insurers on software solutions and the emergence of new platforms that have broadened from core system modernization to new digital engagement and data and analytics solutions have generated significant interest among investors and entrepreneurs. Increased capital allows market participants, or potential market participants such as insurtech companies, to adopt more aggressive go-to-market strategies, improve existing products, introduce new products, develop innovative solutions that disrupt the market, and consolidate with other vendors. This market is also subject to changing technology preferences, shifting customer needs, and the introduction of cloud deployed solutions. These factors create an environment of increasing competition. Our current and future competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services they offer. As we expand our product portfolio, we may begin to compete with software and service providers we have not traditionally competed against. Our current competitors include, but are not limited to, internally developed proprietary solutions; P&C insurance software vendors such as Duck Creek, Insurity, Majesco, Prima Solutions, RGI, and Sapiens; and horizontal software vendors such as SAP and Salesforce, who recently acquired Vlocity. Competitive factors in our industry depend on the product being offered and the size, geographic market, and line of business of potential customers. The principal competitive factors include product functionality, performance, customer references, total cost of ownership, solution completeness, implementation track record, and in-depth knowledge of the P&C insurance industry. We typically compete favorably on the basis of these factors in most geographies. Intellectual Property The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, to establish and adequately protect our intellectual property rights, and to protect against third-party claims and litigation related to intellectual property. To accomplish these objectives, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements and other contractual protections. We own or have pending patents and patent applications, which generally apply to our software. Our owned patents have expiration dates starting in 2025. We also rely on several registered and unregistered trademarks, as well as pending applications for such registrations, in order to protect our brand both in the United States and internationally. Our investments in services and partners are designed to ensure customer success by committing additional resources to both cloud-based and self-managed implementation projects. Our investments in cloud operations are focused on managing the infrastructure for our cloud-based customers in a secure, efficient, and cost-effective manner. Employees As of July 31, 2020, we had 2,690 employees, including 758 in professional services, 378 in cloud operations and technical support, 809 in research and development, 399 in sales and marketing, and 346 in general and administrative roles. As of July 31, 2020, we had 1,748 employees in the United States and 942 employees internationally. Our employees in the United States are not represented by a labor union, however, in certain foreign locations, there are workers councils that represent our employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Note 2 and Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Seasonality We have experienced seasonal variations in our license revenue and, to a lesser extent, in our subscription revenue as a result of increased customer orders in our fourth fiscal quarter. We generally see significantly increased orders in our fourth fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ending July 31, due to efforts by our sales team to achieve annual incentives. Additionally, the adoption of new revenue recognition guidance in fiscal year 2019, also referred to as ASC 606, could continue to heighten or change the seasonal impact on us as our new term licenses and multi-year renewals recognize more revenue upfront based on the length of the committed term. Any quarter in which a significant multi-year term license or multi-year term license renewal Table of Contents or non-renewal occurs may be impacted. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we experienced license revenue growth due to a 10-year term license deal under which revenue was recognized upfront, which overshadowed the usual positive seasonal impact in our second quarter of fiscal year 2019 and set up a challenging comparable period for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. On an annual basis, our support revenue, which is recognized ratably, may also be impacted in the event that seasonal patterns change significantly. Additionally, as subscriptions increase as a percentage of total sales, the revenue we can recognize in the initial fiscal year of an order will be reduced, deferred revenue will increase, and our reported revenue growth will be adversely affected in the near term due to the ratable nature of these arrangements. The concentration of our sales in our fiscal fourth quarter increases this impact. Our services revenue is also subject to seasonal fluctuations, though to a lesser degree than our license revenue and subscription revenue. Our services revenue is impacted by the number of billable days in a given fiscal quarter. The quarter ending January 31 usually has fewer billable days due to the impact of the Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Years holidays. The fiscal quarter ending July 31 usually has fewer billable days due to the impact of vacations taken by our professional staff. Because we pay our services professionals the same amount throughout the year, our gross margins on our services revenue are usually lower in these quarters. This seasonal pattern, however, may be absent in any given year. WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION The following filings are available to view and download free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and our Proxy Statement for our annual meeting of stockholders. Our website is located at www.guidewire.com , and our investor relations website is located at http://ir.guidewire.com /. We also provide a link to the section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov that has all of our public filings, including periodic reports, proxy statements and other information. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases as part of our investor relations website. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds. Corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines and code of business conduct and ethics, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Corporate Governance. The contents of our websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Table of Contents Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this report, and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. Risks Related to our Business The recent global COVID-19 outbreak, as well as periods of increases or spikes in the number of COVID-19 cases, or future mutations or related strains of the virus in areas in which we operate, could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global pandemic. This contagious disease outbreak, which has continued to spread, and the related adverse public health developments, including orders to shelter-in-place, have adversely affected workforces, organizations, economies, and financial markets globally, leading to an economic downturn and increased market volatility. It has also disrupted the normal operations of many businesses, including our business, our customers' businesses, and our SI partners' businesses. This outbreak, as well as intensified measures undertaken to contain the spread of COVID-19 has affected and could further affect the ability to travel to customers and prospects, resulting in delays in services delivery, delays in implementations, and interruptions or modifications in our sales and marketing activities, including Connections, our annual user conference, and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The related impact on the global economy could also decrease technology spending and adversely affect demand for our products. Further, our sales and implementation cycles have increased and could continue to increase, which has resulted in and could result in providing contract terms more favorable to customers and a potentially longer delay between incurring operating expenses and the generation of corresponding revenue, if any, or in difficulty accurately forecasting our financial results. Additionally, our customers may be unable to pay or request amended payment terms for their outstanding invoices due to the economic impacts from COVID-19. As a result of these containment measures and the related economic impact to our business, we may be required to record impairment related to our operating lease assets, investments, long-lived assets, or goodwill. The outbreak also presents operational challenges as our entire workforce is currently working remotely and shifting to assisting customers who are also generally working remotely. It is not possible for us to predict the duration or magnitude of the adverse results of the outbreak and its effects on our business, results of operations, or financial condition at this time. Further, to the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business, results of operations, or financial condition, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. We may experience significant quarterly and annual fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors. Our quarterly and annual results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as investors and research analysts respond to quarterly fluctuations. In addition, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis, particularly on a sequential quarterly basis, may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that may affect our results of operations include: the impact of economic downturns and related market volatility caused by the COVID-19 pandemic or the upcoming U.S. presidential election on our business and the businesses of our customers, partners and vendors; our ability to attract new domestic and international customers and renew existing customers; seasonal buying patterns of our potential customers and our ability to sell additional software and services to existing customers; the proportion and timing of subscription sales as opposed to term or perpetual software licenses, and the variations in revenue recognition between these contract types; changes in contract durations of term software licenses and renewals; increases in costs related to cloud operations, product development, and services; Table of Contents our ability to develop and achieve market adoption of cloud-based services, including the impact of our customers transitioning from term software licenses to subscription services; erosion in services margins or significant fluctuations in services revenue caused by changing customer demand, negotiated professional services billing rates, or fixed fee contracts; our ability to enter into contracts on favorable terms, including terms related to price, payment timing, service levels, acceptance, and product delivery, especially with customers and prospects that possess substantial negotiating leverage and procurement expertise; the incurrence of penalties for failing to meet certain contractual obligations, including service levels, product features, and implementation times; future accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting rules and our related accounting policies and interpretations; our ability to realize expected benefits from our acquisitions; reductions in our customers budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; the timing of hiring personnel and employee related expenses; the impact of a recession or any other adverse global economic condition on our business, including pandemics, trade tariffs, trade agreements, and other uncertainties that may cause a delay in entering into or a failure to enter into significant customer agreements or the fulfillment of professional service arrangements; adverse litigation judgments, other dispute-related settlement payments, or other litigation-related costs; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and the effects of inflation or deflation in the economies in which we operate and its impact on our revenues given the multi-year term of most customer agreements. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our quarterly and annual results of operations. Further, due to multi-year term licenses and multi-year term license renewals, increased cloud-based subscription services, and other ongoing changes to our business, it is challenging to forecast our quarterly and annual results. We believe our ability to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a potential revenue shortfall is very limited and our inability to do so could magnify the adverse impact of a potential revenue shortfall on our results of operations. If we fail to achieve our quarterly forecasts, if our forecasts fall below the expectations of investors or research analysts, or if our actual results fail to meet the expectations of investors or research analysts, our stock price may decline. Seasonal sales patterns may cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows and may prevent us from achieving our quarterly or annual forecasts, which may cause our stock price to decline. We generally see increased new orders in our fourth fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ended July 31, due to efforts by our sales team to achieve annual incentives. As a result, a significantly higher percentage of our annual license revenue has historically been recognized in our fourth fiscal quarter. Since a substantial majority of our license revenue has annual renewals after the initial term of the contract, we expect to continue to experience this seasonality effect in subsequent years. Generally, accounting under ASC 606 for revenue recognition has and may continue to heighten or change the seasonal impact on our new term licenses and multi-year term license renewals due to license revenue for the entire committed term being recognized at the beginning of the agreement. Because of the upfront nature of revenue recognition for new multi-year term licenses and multi-year term license renewals, any quarter in which a significant deal of this nature is signed, renewed, cancelled or not renewed when scheduled to do so may be impacted. We currently anticipate that sales of, and revenue from, subscription services will continue to increase in the future. Subscriptions are recognized ratably over the term of the agreement after provisioning of the service. Over time, this may reduce the impact of our historic revenue seasonality, but in the near term the introduction of proportionally more subscription services into our revenue stream, together with their delayed and ratable recognition, will likely impact quarter over quarter and year-over-year revenue growth comparisons and cash flow because of the ramped nature of the annual installments of these multi-year arrangements. Additionally, Annual Recurring Revenue, or ARR, which reflects the annualized recurring value of active customer contracts at the end of a reporting period, will be impacted by the seasonality of new sales orders, even if the revenue is recognized ratably. Our quarterly growth in revenue or ARR also may not coincide with new orders or cash flows in a given quarter, which could mask the impact of seasonal variations. This mismatch is primarily due to the following reasons: our subscription arrangements are recognized ratably and only a portion of the revenue from an order is recognized in the same fiscal period of the order; subscription arrangements generally have ramped invoicing schedules over the initial term but revenue is recognized ratably over the initial term; Table of Contents our term license agreements and multi-year term license renewals generally have annual billing arrangements even though revenue is recognized upfront for the entire committed term; as customers transition from term license to subscription agreements or as we invest in certain cloud implementations to assist our customers with their migration to our cloud services, the timing of revenue recognition may be impacted by the allocation of revenue between different performance obligations; we may enter into license agreements with future product delivery requirements, specified terms for product upgrades or functionality, acceptance terms, or unconditional return rights, which may require us to delay revenue recognition for a period of time; and revenue recognition may not occur in the period when the order is placed due to certain revenue recognition criteria not being met, such as delivery of the software or providing access to the subscription services. Additionally, seasonal patterns may be affected by the timing of particularly large transactions and the large number of renewals that occur in the first fiscal quarter. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we achieved higher revenue growth due to the delivery of a single license agreement with a term of ten years and resulted in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 lacking comparability to the prior year period. Seasonal and other variations may cause significant fluctuations in our revenues, ARR, results of operations and cash flows, may make it challenging for an investor to predict our performance on a quarterly basis and may prevent us from achieving our quarterly or annual forecasts or meeting or exceeding the expectations of research analysts or investors, which in turn may cause our stock price to decline. If we fail to successfully manage our transition to a business model focused on delivering cloud-based offerings on a subscription basis or fail to meet stipulated service levels with our subscription services, our results of operations could be harmed. To address demand trends in the P&C insurance industry, we offer customers the use of our software products through a cloud-based offering sold on a subscription basis in addition to our self-managed offering. This change to our business model requires a considerable investment of technical, operational, financial, legal, and sales resources. Our software and cloud services involve the storage and transmission of customer data, including in some cases, personal data, and security breaches could result in the loss of this information, which in turn could result in litigation, breach of contract claims, indemnity obligations, harm to our reputation, and other liabilities for us. Our transition to cloud offerings will continue to be the focus of existing resources, require us to hire additional resources, and increase costs, especially in cost of subscription and support revenue and research and development, in any given period. We may not be able to efficiently scale such investments to meet customer demand and expectations, which may impact our long-term growth and results of operations. Further, the increase in some costs associated with our cloud services, such as the cost of public infrastructure on which we rely to host our subscription services, may be difficult to predict over time, especially in light of our limited experience with the costs of delivering cloud-based versions of our applications. Furthermore, we may assume greater responsibilities for implementation related services related to subscription services due to our operating and maintaining the cloud environment for our customers. As a result, we may face risks associated with new and complex implementations, the cost of which may differ from original estimates. Our subscription contracts also contain penalty clauses, for matters such as failing to meet stipulated service levels or other contractual provisions, which represent new risks we are not accustomed to managing. Should these penalties be triggered, our results of operations may be adversely affected. These penalties and costs could take the form of monetary credits for current or future service engagements, reduced fees for additional products or services, and a customers refusal to pay its contractually-obligated subscription or service fees. Revenue under our cloud-based subscription model will generally be recognized ratably over the term of the contract. The transition to ratable revenue recognition will result in lower revenue we otherwise would have recognized in the initial period of the customer agreement than under term license agreements. This effect on recognized revenue may be magnified in any fiscal year due to the concentration of our orders in the fourth fiscal quarter. A combination of increased costs and delayed recognition of revenue would adversely impact our gross and operating margins compared to prior periods. Additionally, the change in our business model and transition of our customers from self-managed licenses to cloud-based subscription services could negatively affect our ability to forecast the timing and amount of our revenues in any period. Table of Contents In addition, market acceptance of our cloud-based offerings may be affected by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, price, security, reliability, performance, customer preference, public concerns regarding privacy, and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations. We are in the early stages of re-architecting our existing products and developing new products in an effort to offer customers greater choices on how they utilize our software. As our business practices in this area develop and evolve over time, we may be required to revise our current subscription agreements, which may result in revised terms and conditions that impact how we recognize revenue and the costs and risks associated with these offerings. Whether our product development efforts or business model transition will prove successful and accomplish our business objectives is subject to numerous uncertainties and risks, including, but not limited to, customer demand, our ability to further develop, manage, and scale infrastructure, our ability to include functionality and usability in such offerings that address customer requirements, tax, and accounting implications, and our costs. Further, the metrics we and our investors use to gauge the status of our business model transition may evolve over the course of the transition as significant trends emerge. It may be difficult, therefore, to accurately determine the impact of this transition on our business on a contemporaneous basis, or to clearly communicate the appropriate metrics to our investors. If we are unable to successfully establish these new cloud offerings and navigate our business model transition in light of the foregoing risks and uncertainties, our reputation could suffer and our results of operations could be harmed, which may cause our stock price to decline. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on orders from a relatively small number of customers in the P&C insurance industry for a substantial portion of our revenue and ARR, and the loss of any of these customers would significantly harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our revenue and ARR is dependent on orders from customers in the P&C insurance industry, which may be adversely affected by worldwide economic, environmental, public health, and political conditions. A relatively small number of customers have historically accounted for a significant portion of our revenue. While the composition of our individual top customers has and will vary from year to year, in each of fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018, our ten largest customers accounted for 31% of our revenue. Additionally, our ten largest customers based on ARR accounted for 29% of total ARR in fiscal year 2020. Customers for these metrics is calculated at the parent corporation level, while our total customer count is based on entities that have placed orders for our products and services. While we expect this reliance to decrease over time as our revenue, customer base and subscription services as a percentage of revenue grows, we expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, if we fail to successfully sell our products and services to one or more of these anticipated customers in any particular period or fail to identify additional potential customers or such customers purchase fewer of our products or services, defer or cancel orders, fail to renew their license or subscription agreements or otherwise terminate or reduce their relationship with us, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be harmed. Additionally, if our sales to one or more of these anticipated customers in any particular period are ratable in nature, or if we fail to achieve the required performance or acceptance criteria for one or more of these relatively small number of customers, our quarterly and annual results of operations may fluctuate significantly. If our products or cloud-based services experience data security breaches, and there is unauthorized access to our customers data, we may lose current or future customers and our reputation and business may be harmed. If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our cloud services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may reduce the use of or stop using our services, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our software and cloud services involve the storage and transmission of customer data, including in some cases, personal data, and security breaches could result in the loss of this information, which in turn could result in litigation, breach of contract claims, indemnity obligations, and other liabilities for our company. While we have taken and are continually updating our steps to protect the confidential information and customer data to which we have access, including confidential information we may obtain through our customer support services or customer usage of our cloud-based services, our security measures or the security measures of companies we rely on, such as AWS, could be breached. We rely on third-party technology and systems for a variety of services, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions, and our ability to control or prevent breaches of any of these systems may be beyond our control. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer data and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third-party vendor, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new customers or to increase engagement by existing customers, could cause existing customers to elect not to renew their term licenses or subscription agreements, or could subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Table of Contents Failure of any of our established products or services to satisfy customer demands or to maintain market acceptance could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects. We derive a significant majority of our revenue and cash flows from our established product offerings, including Guidewire InsuranceSuite via Guidewire Cloud, Guidewire InsuranceSuite for self-managed, Guidewire InsuranceNow, and our digital and data products. We expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenue from these sources. As such, continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our growth and success. Demand for our products is affected by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the successful implementation of our products, the timing of development and release of new products by us and our competitors, the cost and effort to migrate from self-managed products to subscription services, the ease of integrating our software to third-party software and services, technological advances that reduce the appeal of our products, changes in the regulations that our customers must comply with in the jurisdictions in which they operate, and the growth or contraction in the worldwide market for technological solutions for the P&C insurance industry. If we are unable to continue to meet customer demands, to achieve and maintain a technological advantage over competitors, or to maintain market acceptance of our products, our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects may be adversely affected. We face intense competition in our market, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition and cause our market share to decline. The market for our software and services is intensely competitive. The competitors we face in any sale opportunity may change depending on, among other things, the line of business purchasing the software, the application being sold, the geography in which the customer is operating, and the size of the insurance carrier to which we are selling. For example, we are more likely to face competition from small independent firms when addressing the needs of small insurers. These competitors may compete on the basis of price, the time and cost required for software implementation, custom development, or unique product features or functions. Outside of the United States, we are more likely to compete against vendors that may differentiate themselves based on local advantages in language, market knowledge, and pre-built content applicable to that jurisdiction. We also compete with vendors of horizontal software products that may be customized to address needs of the P&C insurance industry. Additionally, many of our prospective customers operate firmly entrenched legacy systems, some of which have been in operation for decades. Our implementation cycles may be lengthy, variable, and require the investment of significant time and expense by our customers. These expenses and associated operating risks attendant on any significant process of re-engineering and technology implementation, may cause customers to prefer maintaining legacy systems. Also, maintaining these legacy systems may be so time consuming and costly for our customers that they do not have adequate resources to devote to the purchase and implementation of our products. We also compete against technology consulting firms that either helped create such legacy systems or may own, in full or in part, subsidiaries that develop software and systems for the P&C insurance industry. As we expand our product portfolio, we may begin to compete with software and service providers we have not competed against previously. Such potential competitors offer data and analytics tools that may, in time, become more competitive with our offerings. We expect the intensity of competition to remain high in the future, as the amount of capital invested in current and potential competitors, including insurtech companies, has increased significantly in recent years. As a result, our competitors or potential competitors may develop improved product or sales capabilities, or even a technology breakthrough that disrupts our market. Continuing intense competition could result in increased pricing pressure, increased sales and marketing expenses, and greater investments in research and development, each of which could negatively impact our profitability. In addition, the failure to increase, or the loss of, market share would harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, and/or future prospects. Our larger current and potential competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products than we can devote to ours, which could allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new technologies and changes in customer needs, thus leading to their wider market acceptance. We may not be able to compete effectively and competitive pressures may prevent us from acquiring and maintaining the customer base necessary for us to increase our revenue and profitability. In addition, the insurance industry is evolving rapidly and we anticipate the market for cloud-based solutions will become increasingly competitive. If our current and potential customers move a greater proportion of their data and computational needs to the cloud, new competitors may emerge that offer services either comparable or better suited than ours to address the demand for such cloud-based solutions, which could reduce demand for our offerings. To compete effectively we will likely be required to increase our investment in research and development, as well as the personnel and third-party services required to improve reliability and lower the cost of delivery of our cloud-based solutions. This may increase our costs more than we anticipate and may adversely impact our results of operations. Table of Contents Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to further enhance their resources and offerings. Current or potential competitors may be acquired by other vendors or third parties with greater available resources. As a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be more able than we are to adapt quickly to new technologies and customer needs, to devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, to initiate or withstand substantial price competition, or to take advantage of emerging opportunities by developing and expanding their product and service offerings more quickly than we can. Additionally, they may hold larger portfolios of patents and other intellectual property rights as a result of such relationships or acquisitions. If we are unable to compete effectively with these evolving competitors for market share, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our sales and implementation cycles are lengthy and variable, depend upon factors outside our control, and could cause us to expend significant time and resources prior to generating revenue. The typical sales cycle for our products and services is lengthy and unpredictable, requires pre-purchase evaluation by a significant number of employees in our customers organizations, often involves a significant operational decision by our customers, and could be affected by factors outside of our control. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use and benefits of our products, including the technical capabilities of our products and the potential cost savings achievable by organizations deploying our products. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process, which frequently involves not only our products, but also those of our competitors. We spend substantial time, effort, and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce sales, and our customers have significant negotiating power during the sales process which may result in a lengthy sales cycle and significant contractual complexity. Additionally, we may be unable to predict the size and terms of the initial contract until very late in the sales cycle, which affects our ability to accurately forecast revenue. In addition, we sometimes commit to include specific functions in our base product offering at the request of a customer or group of customers and are unable to recognize revenue until the specific functions have been added to our products. Providing this additional functionality may be time consuming and may involve factors that are outside of our control. Customers may also insist that we commit to certain time frames in which systems built around our products will be operational or that once implemented our products will be able to meet certain operational requirements. Our ability to meet such timeframes and requirements may involve factors that are outside of our control, and failure to meet such timeframes and requirements could result in us incurring penalties and costs and/or making additional resource commitments, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. The implementation and testing of our products by our customers typically lasts 6 to 24 months or longer and unexpected implementation delays and difficulties can occur. Implementing our products typically involves integration with our customers and third parties systems, as well as adding customer and third-party data to our platform. This process can be complex, time consuming, and expensive for our customers and can result in delays in the implementation and deployment of our products. Failing to meet the expectations of our customers during the implementation of our products could result in a loss of customers and negative publicity about us and our products and services. Such failure could result from deficiencies in our product capabilities or inadequate service engagements by us, our SI partners, or our customers employees, the latter two of which are beyond our direct control. The consequences of such failure could include, and have included, monetary credits for current or future service engagements, reduced fees for additional product or services sales or upon renewals of existing licenses, potential reversals of previously recognized revenue, and a customers refusal to pay their contractually-obligated license, support, or service fees. In addition, time-consuming and delayed implementations may also increase the amount of services personnel we must allocate to each customer, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Furthermore, our sales and implementation cycles could be interrupted or affected by other factors outside of our control. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused sales and implementation cycles to lengthen and has also had other impacts on our business. We currently have formal restrictions on travel in place, which are in accordance with recommendations by the U.S. government and The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and our customers, SI partners, and prospects are likewise enacting their own preventative policies and travel restrictions. Widespread restrictions on travel and in-person meetings have affected and could continue to affect services delivery, delay implementations, and interrupt sales activity. We cannot predict whether, for how long, or the extent to which the COVID-19 outbreak may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Revenue mix, as well as declines in our subscription and support gross margin or our services gross margin, could adversely affect our overall gross margin and profitability. Our subscription and support revenue was 27% and 21% of total revenue for fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our subscription and support revenue produces lower gross margins than our license revenue. The gross margin of our subscription and support revenue was 42% and 51% for fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively, while the gross margin for Table of Contents license revenue was 97% and 98% for fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. As our cloud transition continues, we expect that subscription revenue will continue to increase as a percentage of total revenue as we contract with new cloud customers and existing customers migrate from term licenses to subscription services. Additionally, we are incurring significant expenses to develop our cloud services and scale our cloud operations which may result in erosion of our subscription and support gross margin. These trends, along with other factors, some of which may be beyond our control, may adversely affect our overall gross and operating margins. These other factors include the percentage of new customers that enter into subscription services agreements as compared to term license agreements, the revenue impact of allocating total contract consideration between license revenue and subscription and support revenue when existing customers transition from term license to subscription services agreements, investments in certain cloud implementations to assist our customers with their migration to our cloud services, continued growth and efficiency of our cloud operations and technical support teams, and the impact on the global economy as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic or other disasters. Further, our services revenue was 28% and 35% of total revenue for fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our services revenue produces lower gross margin than either our license revenue or our subscription and support revenue. The gross margin of our services revenue was less than 3% for both fiscal years 2020 and 2019. If we experience an increase in the percentage of total revenue represented by services revenue, like we did in fiscal year 2018 due to acquisitions and other factors, such increase could reduce our overall gross and operating margins. Fluctuation in our services revenue can result from several factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including the pace of our customers migration from term license to subscription services as we continue our cloud transition, change in customer demand for our services teams involvement in the implementation of new products and services, the rates we charge for our services, our ability to bill our customers for all time incurred to complete a project, the extent and quality of implementations and migrations provided by our SI partners, and the impact on the global economy as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic or other disasters. Additionally, the failure to improve, or the erosion of, our services margin, particularly in combination with any increase in services revenue, could adversely affect our overall gross and operating margins. Services margin may erode if we hire and train additional services personnel to support cloud-based services or markets prior to having customer engagements, if we make investments in customer migrations from self-managed term licenses to subscription services, if we enter into fixed fee services arrangements, if our services personnel are underutilized, or if we require additional personnel on unexpectedly difficult projects to ensure customer success, perhaps without commensurate compensation. Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that result in increased cost of sales, decreased revenue, and lower average selling prices and gross margins, all of which could harm our results of operations. Some of our customers include the worlds largest P&C insurers. These customers have significant bargaining power when negotiating new licenses or subscriptions or renewals of existing agreements, and have the ability to buy similar products from other vendors or develop such systems internally. These customers have and may continue to seek advantageous pricing and other commercial and performance terms that may require us to develop additional features in the products we sell to them or add complexity to our customer agreements. We have been required to, and may continue to be required to, reduce the average selling price of our products in response to these pressures. If we are unable to avoid reducing our average selling prices, our results of operations could be harmed. Our business depends on customers renewing and expanding their license, support, and subscription contracts for our products. A decline in our customer renewals and expansions could harm our future results of operations. Our customers have no obligation to renew their term licenses or subscriptions after their contract period expires, and these licenses and subscriptions, if renewed, may be done so on less favorable terms. Moreover, under certain circumstances, our customers have the right to cancel their licenses or subscriptions before they expire. We may not accurately predict future trends in customer renewals. In addition, our perpetual license customers have no obligation to renew their support arrangements after the expiration of the initial contractual period. Our customers renewal rates may fluctuate or decline because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors, reductions in our customers spending levels due to the macroeconomic environment or other factors, or the sale of their operations to a buyer that is not a current customer. Also, in some cases, our customers have a right to exercise a perpetual buyout of their term licenses at the end of the initial contract term, which if exercised would eliminate future term license revenue. If our customers do not renew their term licenses or subscriptions for our solutions or renew on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline or grow more slowly than expected and our profitability may be harmed. Table of Contents Privacy concerns could result in regulatory changes and impose additional costs and liabilities on us, limit our use of information, and adversely affect our business. As adoption of our cloud-based services occurs, the amount of customer data, including customer personal information, that we manage, hold, and/or collect continues to increase. In addition, a limited number of our products and services may collect, process, store, and use transaction-level data aggregated across insurers using our common data model. We anticipate that over time we will continue to expand the use and collection of personal information as greater amounts of such personal information may be transferred from our customers to us and we recognize that personal privacy has become a significant issue in the United States, Europe, and many other jurisdictions where we operate. Many federal, state, and foreign legislatures and government agencies have imposed or are considering imposing restrictions and requirements about the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information. Changes to laws or regulations affecting privacy could impose additional costs and liabilities, including fines, on us and could limit our use of such information to add value for customers, including for example, the California Consumer Privacy Act or the invalidation of the Privacy Shield framework. If we were required to change our business activities or revise or eliminate services, or to implement burdensome compliance measures, our business and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties, and potential litigation if we fail to comply with applicable privacy and/or data security laws, regulations, standards, and other requirements. The costs of compliance with and other burdens imposed by privacy-related laws, regulations, and standards may limit the use and adoption of our products and services and reduce overall demand. Furthermore, concerns regarding data privacy and/or security may cause our customers customers to resist providing the data and information necessary to allow our customers to use our products and services effectively. Even the perception that the privacy and/or security of personal information is not satisfactorily managed, or does not meet applicable legal, regulatory, and other requirements, could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our solutions, resulting in a negative impact on our sales and results from operations. Privacy concerns in the European Union are evolving and we may face fines and other penalties if we fail to comply with these evolving standards, and compliance with these standards may increase our expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. On April 27, 2016 the European Union (EU) adopted the General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR), that took effect on May 25, 2018. The GDPR applies to any company established in the European Economic Area (EEA) and the U.K. as well as to those outside the EEA and the U.K. if they carry out processing of personal data of individuals in the EEA or the U.K. that is related to the offering of goods or services to them or the monitoring of their behavior. The GDPR has enhanced data protection obligations for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal data is to be used, limitations on retention of personal data, mandatory data breach notification requirements and onerous new obligations on data processors. Non-compliance with the GDPR can trigger fines of up to 20 million, or 4% of total worldwide annual revenues, whichever is higher. Given the breadth and depth of changes in data protection obligations, complying with GDPR requirements has caused us to expend significant resources and such expenditures are likely to continue into the near future as we respond to new interpretations and enforcement actions and as we continue to negotiate data processing agreements with our customers and business partners. In addition, the GDPR restricts transfers of personal data outside of the EEA and the U.K. to third countries deemed to lack adequate privacy protections, including the U.S., unless an appropriate safeguard specified by the GDPR is implemented, such as the Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) approved by the European Commission and, until July 16, 2020, the Privacy Shield for EUU.S. data transfers. We are currently certified to the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield. On July 16, 2020, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) invalidated the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield, but it deemed that the SCCs are valid. However, the ECJ ruled that transfers made pursuant to SCCs and other alternative transfer mechanisms need to be analyzed on a case-by-case basis to ensure EU standards of data protection are met in the jurisdiction where the data importer is based, and there continue to be concerns about whether the SCCs and other mechanisms will face additional challenges. Moreover, on September 8, 2020, the Swiss Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner announced that it no longer considers the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield to provide adequate protections for transfers of Swiss personal data to the U.S., following the invalidation of the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield by the ECJ. We are currently certified to the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield. Until the remaining legal uncertainties regarding how to legally continue transfers pursuant to the SCCs and other mechanisms are settled, we will continue to face uncertainty as to whether our efforts to comply with our obligations under European and Swiss privacy laws will be sufficient. We may experience hesitancy, reluctance, or refusal by European or multi-national customers to continue to use our services due to the potential risk exposure to such customers as a result of such developments and the current data protection obligations imposed on them by certain data protection authorities. Such customers may also view any alternative approaches to Table of Contents the transfer of any personal data as being too costly, too burdensome, or otherwise objectionable, and therefore may decide not to do business with us. Given our current transition to more cloud-based services and the current data protection landscape in the EU, we may be subject to greater risk of potential inquiries and/or enforcement actions. We may find it necessary to establish alternative systems to maintain EEA personal data within the EEA, which may involve substantial expense and may cause us to need to divert resources from other aspects of our business, all of which may adversely affect our results from operations. Further, any inability to adequately address privacy concerns in connection with our cloud-based services, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations, and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, including fines and harm to our reputation, and adversely affect our ability to offer cloud-based services. In addition, further to Brexit, the GDPR will continue to apply in the U.K. until the end of the transition period on December 31, 2020. Unless the transitional period is extended, as of January 1, 2021 the GDPR will be brought into U.K. law as the U.K. GDPR, but there may be further developments about the regulation of particular issues such as U.K.-EU data transfers. We may be required to take steps to ensure the lawfulness of our data transfers, particularly if by the end of the transition period there will not be an European Commissions adequacy decision regarding the U.K. Anticipated further evolution of European Union regulations on this topic, including the impact of Brexit on these regulations in the U.K. and any related changes to the regulatory framework in the U.K., may increase substantially the penalties to which we could be subject in the event of any non-compliance. We may incur substantial expense in complying with the new obligations to be imposed by new regulations and we may be required to make significant changes to our software applications and expanding business operations, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in securities class action litigation against us. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this report, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us and research analyst coverage about our business. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes, or international currency fluctuations, have and may continue to affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. In July 2020, one of our stockholders filed a putative securities class action complaint in the federal court for the Northern District of California, against us and certain of our current or former officers and directors, alleging misstatements and omissions in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) and SEC Rule 10b-5. Although we believe these allegations are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend against the lawsuit, this matter, and any other similar matters, could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business, and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Furthermore, we may become the target of additional complaints of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. If we are unable to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage. Our success depends on our continued ability to develop, introduce, and market new and enhanced versions of our products to meet evolving customer requirements. Because some of our products are complex and require rigorous testing, new features, new functionality, and updates to our existing products and services can take us multiple years to develop and bring to market. As we expand internationally, our products and services must be modified and adapted to comply with regulations and other requirements of the countries in which our customers do business. Additionally, market conditions may dictate that we change the delivery method of our products or the technology platform underlying our existing products or that new products be developed on different technology platforms, potentially adding material time and expense to our development cycles. The nature of these development cycles may cause us to experience delays between the time we incur expenses associated with research and development and the time we generate revenue, if any, from such expenses. If we fail to develop new products, enhance our existing products, or migrate our products to the cloud, our business could be adversely affected, especially if our competitors are able to introduce products with enhanced functionality in the cloud. It is critical to our success for us to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards, and customer requirements and Table of Contents to successfully introduce new, enhanced, and competitive products to meet our customers and prospective customers needs on a timely basis. We have invested and intend to increase investments in research and development and cloud operations to meet these challenges. Revenue may not be sufficient to support the future product development that is required for us to remain competitive. If we fail to develop products in a timely manner that are competitive in technology and price or develop products that fail to meet customer demands, our market share will decline and our business and results of operations could be harmed. If our research and development efforts do not develop products or features that our customers find valuable, then we might incur impairment charges related to our capitalized software development costs. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our professional services and technical support services and the support of our SI partners, and the failure of us or our SI partners to offer high-quality professional services or technical support services could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services to new customers and renew agreements with our existing customers. If we or our SI partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, successfully help our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, assist our customers in migrating from self-managed licenses to subscription services, and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to renew existing agreements and sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. Once our products are deployed and integrated with our customers existing information technology environment, our customers may depend on our technical support services and/or the support of SI partners or internal resources to resolve any issues relating to our products. High-quality support is critical for the continued successful marketing and sale of our products. In addition, as we continue to expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training, and documentation in languages other than English. Many enterprise customers require higher levels of support than smaller customers. If we fail to meet the requirements of our larger customers, it may be more difficult to sell additional products and services to these customers or to transition existing license customers to subscription services, a key strategy for the growth of our revenue and profitability. In addition, as we further expand our cloud-based products, our professional services and support organization will face new challenges, including hiring, training, and integrating a large number of new professional services personnel with experience in delivering high-quality support for cloud-based offerings. Further, as we continue to rely on SI partners to provide deployment, migration, and on-going services, our ability to ensure a high level of quality in addressing customer issues and providing a maintainable and efficient cloud environment could be diminished as we may be unable to control the quality or timeliness of the implementation of our products and services by our SI partners. Our failure to maintain high-quality implementation and support services, or to ensure that SI partners provide the same, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects. Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violation by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the software industry own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims against us. From time to time, third parties holding such intellectual property rights, including leading companies, competitors, patent holding companies, and/or non-practicing entities, may assert patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property claims against us, our customers and partners, and those from whom we license technology and intellectual property. Although we believe that our products and services do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, we cannot assure that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to current or future products or services, or that any such assertions will not require us to enter into royalty arrangements, result in costly litigation, or result in us being unable to use certain intellectual property. We cannot assure that we are not infringing or otherwise violating any third-party intellectual property rights. Infringement assertions from third parties may involve patent holding companies or other patent owners who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore our own issued and pending patents may provide little or no deterrence to these patent owners in bringing intellectual property rights claims against us. If we are forced to defend against any infringement or misappropriation claims, whether they are with or without merit, are settled out of court or are determined in our favor, we may be required to expend significant time and financial resources on the defense of such claims. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a partys intellectual property; cease making, licensing, or using our products or services that are alleged to infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to redesign our products or services; enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or works; and to indemnify our partners, Table of Contents customers, and other third parties. Any of these events could seriously harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our customers may defer or forego purchases of our products or services in the event of weakened global economic conditions, political transitions, and industry consolidation. General worldwide economic conditions remain unstable and prolonged economic uncertainties or downturns could harm our business operations or financial results. In particular, pursuant to a decision by referendum in June 2016, the United Kingdom (U.K.) voted to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit). The U.K. subsequently withdrew from the European Union on January 31, 2020, subject to a transition period that is set to end on December 31, 2020. Brexit has caused significant volatility in global stock markets and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Brexit has also caused, and may continue to cause, delays in purchasing decisions by our potential and current customers affected by this transition due to the considerable political and economic uncertainty created by Brexit and uncertainty as to the nature of the U.K.s long-term relationship with the European Union. Brexit may further result in new regulatory and cost challenges to our U.K. and global operations, particularly with respect to data protection. Depending on the market and regulatory effects of Brexit, it is possible that there may be adverse practical or operational implications on our business, and prolonged economic uncertainties or downturns caused by Brexit could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, the upcoming U.S. presidential election could lead to changes in economic conditions or economic uncertainties in the United States and globally. Further, other global events such as the imposition of various trade tariffs by the United States and China and the COVID-19 pandemic, have created and may continue to create global economic uncertainty, including inflationary pressures, in regions in which we have significant operations. These conditions may make it difficult for our customers and us to forecast and plan future business activities accurately, and they could cause our customers to reevaluate their decision to purchase our products, which could delay and lengthen our sales cycles or result in cancellations of planned purchases. Moreover, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues in gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may not receive amounts owed to us and may be required to record an allowance for doubtful accounts, which would adversely affect our financial results. A substantial downturn in the P&C insurance industry may cause firms to react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures, reducing their spending on information technology, delaying or canceling information technology projects, or seeking to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. Negative or worsening conditions in the general economy both in the United States and abroad, including conditions resulting from financial and credit market fluctuations, could cause a decrease in corporate spending on enterprise software in general, and in the insurance industry specifically, and negatively affect the rate of growth of our business. Furthermore, the increased pace of consolidation in the P&C insurance industry may result in reduced overall spending on our products. Acquisitions of customers or potential customers can delay or cancel sales cycles and because we cannot predict the timing or duration of such acquisitions, our results of operations could be materially impacted. We may expand through acquisitions or partnerships with other companies, which may divert our managements attention and result in unexpected operating and technology integration difficulties, increased costs, and dilution to our stockholders. Our business strategy includes the potential acquisition of shares or assets of companies with software, cloud-based services, technologies, or businesses complementary to ours. Our strategy also includes alliances with such companies. For example, we have made several acquisitions in the past, including Cyence, a Software-as-a-Service company that applies data science and risk analytics to enable P&C insurers to underwrite 21st century risks such as terrorism, cybersecurity, and reputational risk, in November 2017. Each of our prior acquisitions was initially dilutive to earnings. Acquisitions and alliances may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may not result in the benefits anticipated by such corporate activity. In particular, we may fail to assimilate or integrate the businesses, technologies, services, products, personnel, or operations of the acquired companies, retain key personnel necessary to favorably execute the combined companies business plan, or retain existing customers or sell acquired products to new customers. Acquisitions and alliances may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources, and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our current business. In addition, we may be required to make additional capital investments or undertake remediation efforts to ensure the success of our acquisitions, which may reduce the benefits of such acquisitions. We also may be required to use a substantial amount of our cash or issue debt or equity securities to complete an acquisition or realize the potential of an alliance, which could deplete our cash reserves and/or dilute our existing stockholders. Following an acquisition or the establishment of an alliance offering new products, the timing of revenue from the sale of products that we acquired or that result from the alliance, or from the sale of a bundle of products that includes such new products, may be different than the timing of revenue from existing products. In addition, our ability to maintain favorable pricing of new products may be challenging if we bundle such products with existing products. A delay in the recognition of revenue from Table of Contents sales of acquired or alliance products, or reduced pricing due to bundled sales, may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results, may adversely affect our operating margins, and may reduce the benefits of such acquisitions or alliances. Additionally, competition within the software industry for acquisitions of businesses, technologies, and assets has been, and may continue to be, intense. As such, even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to pursue, the target may be acquired by another strategic buyer or financial buyer such as a private equity firm, or we may otherwise not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Moreover, in addition to our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, including our revenue or return on investment assumptions, we may be exposed to unknown liabilities or impairment charges to acquired intangible assets and goodwill as a result of acquisitions we do complete. Real or perceived errors or failures in our products or implementation services may affect our reputation, cause us to lose customers and reduce sales and renewal rates which may harm our business and results of operations and subject us to liability for breach of warranty claims. Because we offer complex products, undetected errors or failures may exist or occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. Despite testing by us, we may not identify all errors, failures, or bugs in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial sales or installation. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in some of our product offerings after their introduction. Additionally, our Guidewire Cloud offerings rely on third-party hosting services. Any material disruption or slowdown in these services or the systems of third parties who we depend upon could cause outages or delays in our services, which could harm our brand and adversely affect our operating results. We provide our customers with upfront estimates regarding the duration, resources, and costs associated with the implementation or migration of our products. Failure to meet these upfront estimates and the expectations of our customers could result from our product capabilities or service engagements performed by us, our SI partners, or our customers employees, the latter two of which are beyond our direct control. The consequences could include, and have included, monetary credits for current or future service engagements, reduced fees for additional product or services sales or upon renewals of existing licenses, potential reversals of previously recognized revenue, or a customers refusal to pay its contractually-obligated fees. In addition, time-consuming implementations may also increase the amount of services personnel we must allocate to each customer, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The license, subscription, and support of our software creates the risk of significant liability claims against us. Our license and subscription agreements with our customers contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in such agreements may not be enforced as a result of international, federal, state, and local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. Breach of warranty or damage liability, or injunctive relief resulting from such claims, could harm our results of operations, and financial condition. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and could cause us to change our business practices. The nature of our business requires the application of accounting guidance that requires management to make estimates and assumptions. Additionally, changes in accounting guidance may cause us to experience greater volatility in our quarterly and annual results. If we are unsuccessful in adapting to the requirements of new guidance, or in clearly explaining to stockholders how new guidance affects reporting of our results of operations, our stock price may decline. We prepare our consolidated financial statements to conform to United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC, FASB, and various bodies formed to interpret and create accounting rules and regulations. New accounting standards, such ASC 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers adopted in fiscal year 2019 or ASC 842 - Leases adopted in fiscal year 2020, or the guidance relating to interpretation and adoption of standards could have a significant effect on our financial results and could affect our business. Additionally, the FASB and the SEC are focused on the integrity of financial reporting, and our accounting policies are subject to scrutiny by regulators and the public. We cannot predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles or our accounting policies on our financial statements going forward. For example, the Emerging Issues Task Force of the FASB is considering changes that may impact the revenue guidance for the migration from term licenses to subscription services. In addition, were we to change our accounting estimates, including those related to the timing of revenue recognition and those used to allocate revenue between various performance obligations, our reported revenue and results of operations could be significantly impacted. For example, the adoption of ASC 606 introduced many risks, including the following: Table of Contents investors misunderstanding of our business and underlying trends and what they could mean for the underlying success of our business; misinterpretation of historic and future trends; a divergence between revenue and ARR trends; and mistakes by us in explaining our historical results or new known trends. If we are unsuccessful in adapting to the requirements of the new revenue standard, or if changes to our go-to-market strategy create new risks, then we may experience greater volatility in our quarterly and annual results, which may cause our stock price to decline. In addition, GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue, and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Further, revenue recognition standards require significant judgment and estimates that impact our reported revenue and results of operations. Additionally, reported revenue has and will vary from the ARR and cash flow associated with each customer agreement. This potential difference and variability in the trends of reported amounts may cause volatility in our stock price. The restatement of our financial statements may lead to additional risks and uncertainties, including regulatory, stockholder or other actions, loss of investor and counterparty confidence and negative impacts on our stock price. Our audit committee, after consultation with management and discussion with our independent registered public accounting firm, concluded that our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2018 and 2017 should be restated for the reasons described in the Explanatory Note preceding Part I, Item 1 and Note 1 The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Restatement of Annual Consolidated Financial Statements of the Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of Part II of our 2018 Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018, filed on June 3, 2019. As a result of the restatement and associated non-reliance on our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, we incurred a number of additional costs and are subject to additional risks, including unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in connection with or related to the restatement. In addition, the attention of our management team was diverted by these efforts. We could also be subject to regulatory, stockholder, or other actions in connection with the restatement, which would, regardless of the outcome, consume managements time and attention and may result in additional legal, accounting, and other costs. If we do not prevail in any such proceedings, we could be required to pay damages or settlement costs. In addition, the restatement and related matters could impair our reputation or could cause our customers, stockholders, or other counterparties to lose confidence in us. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future or identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner could be adversely affected, investor confidence in our company could diminish, and the value of our common stock may decline. Preparing our consolidated financial statements involves a number of complex manual and automated processes, which are dependent upon individual data input or review and require significant management judgment. One or more of these processes may result in errors that may not be detected and could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) requires, among other things, that as a publicly-traded company we disclose whether our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure