Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements may include statements concerning, among other things, our business strategy (including anticipated trends and developments in, and management plans for, our business and the markets in which we operate), financial results, results of operations, revenue, gross margins, operating expenses, products, projected costs and capital expenditures, research and development programs, sales and marketing initiatives, and competition. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words, such as will, may, might, should, could, estimate, expect, suggest, believe, anticipate, intend, plan and continue, the negative or plural of these words and other comparable terminology. Actual events or results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors, including but not limited to the matters discussed below, in the section titled Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements regarding: growth prospects of the property & casualty (P&C) insurance industry and our company; the developing market for subscription services and uncertainties attendant on emerging sales and delivery models; trends in future sales, including the mix of licensing and subscription arrangements and seasonality; our competitive environment and changes thereto; competitive attributes of our software applications and delivery models; challenges to further increase sales outside of the United States; our research and development investment and efforts; expenses to be incurred, and benefits to be achieved, from our acquisitions; our gross and operating margins and factors that affect such margins; our provision for tax liabilities and other critical accounting estimates; the impact of new accounting standards and any contractual changes we have made in anticipation of such changes; the impact of restating our financial statements due to a material misstatement and the related identification of a material weakness in our system of internal controls; our exposure to market risks, including geographical and political events that may negatively impact our customers; and our ability to satisfy future liquidity requirements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on information available to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our current expectations about future events, which are inherently subject to change and involve risks and uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this report or in any of our other communications, except as required by law. All such forward-looking statements should be read as of the time the statements were made and with the recognition that these forward-looking statements may not be complete or accurate at a later date. _________________________________________________________ Unless the context requires otherwise, we are referring to Guidewire Software, Inc. together with its subsidiaries when we use the terms Guidewire, the Company, we, our or us. 2 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Overview We provide a technology platform, composed of software, services, and a partner ecosystem, for the global Property and Casualty (P&C) insurance industry. Guidewire InsurancePlatform TM consists of cloud and on-premise applications to support core operations, data management and analytics, and digital engagement, and is connected to numerous data sources and third-party applications. Our applications are designed to work together to strengthen our customers ability to adapt and succeed in a rapidly changing market. Guidewire InsuranceSuite and Guidewire InsuranceNow TM provide core transactional systems of record that support the entire insurance lifecycle, including product definition, distribution, underwriting, policy-holder services, and claims management. Guidewire InsuranceSuite is a highly configurable and scalable system primarily comprised of three applications (PolicyCenter, BillingCenter, and ClaimCenter) that can be licensed separately or together and can be deployed on-premise or in the cloud. Guidewire InsuranceNow is a cloud-based system that offers policy, billing, and claims management functionality to insurers that prefer an all-in-one solution. Our data and analytics applications enable insurers to manage data more effectively, gain insights into their business, and underwrite new and evolving risks. Our digital engagement applications enable digital sales, omni-channel service, and enhanced claims experiences for policyholders, agents, vendor partners and field personnel. To support P&C insurers globally, we have localized, and will continue to localize, our software for use in a variety of international regulatory, language, and currency environments. Guidewire delivers Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) via Guidewire Cloud on a subscription basis. Guidewires cloud products enable insurers to focus on business agility while transferring undifferentiating IT responsibilities to Guidewire. All Guidewire products are available via Guidewire Cloud and certain products are only available via Guidewire Cloud. Our customers range from some of the largest global insurance carriers or their subsidiaries, such as Aviva, AXA, and Zurich to predominantly national carriers such as Basler Versicherung (Switzerland), Direct Line Group (U.K.), Farmers Insurance (U.S.), IAG (Australia), MS&AD (Japan), Nationwide (U.S.), PZU (Poland), and San Cristobal Seguros S.A. (Argentina) and carriers that serve specific states and/or regions such as Automobile Club of Southern California (California), Canadian Automobile Association Insurance Company (Ontario), Kentucky Farm Bureau (Kentucky), and Vermont Mutual Insurance Group (Vermont). Our customer engagement is led by our direct sales team and supported by our system integrator (SI) partners. We maintain and continue to grow our sales and marketing efforts globally, and maintain regional sales centers in the Americas, Europe, and Asia. We began our principal business operations in 2001. To date, we have primarily licensed our software under term license contracts. We generally price our licenses based on the amount of direct written premiums (DWP) that will be managed by our solutions. Our term license and maintenance fees are typically invoiced annually in advance. Substantially all term licenses are sold with an initial two-year committed term with optional annual renewals commencing after the initial term. A small portion of our revenue is derived from perpetual licenses. Term and perpetual license revenue are typically recognized when software is made available to the customer, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. We also offer cloud-based subscriptions. These subscriptions generally have an initial term of three to five years, and are typically billed annually in advance, although in some instances additional fees may be assessed in arrears as customers increase their DWP. Revenue derived from these subscriptions is recognized ratably over the contractual term beginning after the subscription is effectively provisioned, which is the date our software service is made available to customers. We anticipate that subscriptions will increase as a percentage of annual new sales and revenue as we sell more cloud-based services. Services revenue is primarily derived from implementation and training services performed for our customers. Substantially all of our services revenue is billed on a time and materials basis. Industry Background The P&C insurance industry is large, fragmented, highly regulated, and complex. It is also highly competitive, with carriers competing primarily on the following factors: product differentiation, pricing options, customer service, marketing and advertising, affiliate programs, and channel strategies. P&C insurers continue to actively modernize the transactional systems that support the key functional areas of P&C insurance: product definition, underwriting and policy administration, claims management, and billing. Product definition specifies the insurance coverage, pricing, and financial and legal terms of insurance policies. Underwriting and policy administration includes 1 Table of Contents collecting information from potential policyholders, determining appropriate coverages and terms, pricing policies, issuing policies, and updating and maintaining policies over their lifetimes. Claims management includes loss intake, investigation and evaluation of incidents, settlement negotiation, vendor management, litigation management and payment processing. Billing includes policyholder invoicing, payment collection, and agent commission calculation. We believe insurers that adopt modern infrastructures can enhance customer experience, operate more efficiently and introduce innovative products more rapidly. We believe the P&C industry is experiencing accelerating change in how insurers engage with, sell to, and manage relationships with individual and business customers. Today, P&C insurers are striving to respond to significant changes in their competitive marketplace and the character of the risks they underwrite. The most significant changes include: a rise in customer expectations for digital, omni-channel interaction; a growth in demand for personalized products and services; an increase in technology-driven changes in vehicular risk; demand for coverage of 21 st century risks such as terrorism, cybersecurity, and reputational risk; advances in the use of data to better market to and engage with customers, price policies, and manage claims; development of opportunities to compete or partner with non-traditional players that offer disruptive technology-based value propositions; and the introduction and leveraging of new technologies, such as drones, artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things, and blockchain technology. In response to these challenges and opportunities, we believe that the P&C insurance industry is entering a phase of increasing investment in technology, characterized by a moderated pace of core modernization programs, and growing adoption of new digital engagement and data analytics offerings. While each insurer may have different goals and priorities when pursuing new technology investments, there are several major themes that we believe guide these investments: Legacy Modernization . A significant portion of the market continues to rely on legacy systems. We believe new claims, policy management, and billing systems will continue to be adopted as insurers that rely on legacy systems seek to gain operating efficiencies, expand into new markets and lines of business, and introduce new digital and data offerings. New Digital Engagement Models . We believe that insurers will need to provide a more intuitive, digital user experience to reduce the risk of customer dissatisfaction and loss. Investment in digital user experience will allow insurers to deepen their engagement with customers and transition from passive and transactional customer interactions to active and advisory relationships. This transition will require investments in software products that are designed to model user journeys and enable more frequent, informed, and dynamic interactions between insurers and their customers. We believe these efforts can improve financial performance for insurers through increased lead conversions and lower customer churn. Cloud-Delivered Solutions . We believe that increased recognition of the compelling economic benefits of deploying software solutions on public infrastructure combined with reduced concerns about the security and reliability of such platforms will cause more insurers to consider cloud-deployed solutions. Insurers benefit from an optimized division of labor and risk, allowing third parties to manage their infrastructure as they focus on competitively differentiating activities. Smarter Decision-Making . Insurers are seeking to explore, visualize, and analyze operational and third-party data to optimize decision-making across the insurance lifecycle. We believe that such predictive analytical solutions are most effective when they provide predictive scores and other analytical insights to insurers employees as they perform their underwriting and claims management activities. Insurers may also apply data and machine learning to automate certain tasks whenever possible, thereby enabling efficiencies, such as straight-through processing, that lessen the burden on subject matter experts. Innovation . Insurers are under pressure to innovate across their product lifecycle in order to grow their business and improve service quality. Examples of focus areas include creating products to target under-insured risks such as cyber, supply chain disruption, and reputational and partnering with InsurTech providers to streamline operations and improve service to policyholders and agents. 2 Table of Contents Products Guidewire InsurancePlatform is designed to offer insurers the ability to adapt and succeed in meeting these challenges and capitalize on new opportunities. We believe that the proliferation of modern back-office infrastructures has significantly increased the ability of insurers to utilize new solutions to grow revenue, reduce costs and losses, improve pricing and engage more deeply and in more intuitive ways with a customer base that is increasingly comfortable with mobile and automated forms of self-service and communication. We anticipate that we will continue to invest in research and development and strategic investments so that we may further assist insurers in reaching their business goals. Core Operational Platforms We offer two core operational platforms: Guidewire InsuranceSuite and Guidewire InsuranceNow. Guidewire InsuranceSuite Guidewire InsuranceSuite is comprised of three primary applications: PolicyCenter, BillingCenter, and ClaimCenter. We offer several add-on products designed to work seamlessly with these primary applications. InsuranceSuite is built on a unified technology platform that provides enhanced functionality and a common data model across applications, and is available on-premise and via the Guidewire Cloud. Guidewire PolicyCenter is our flexible underwriting and policy administration application that serves as a comprehensive system-of-record supporting the entire policy lifecycle, including product definition, underwriting, quoting, binding, issuances, endorsements, audits, cancellations and renewals. Guidewire BillingCenter automates the billing lifecycle, enables the design of a wide variety of billing and payment plans, manages agent commissions, and integrates with external payment systems. Guidewire ClaimCenter offers end-to-end claims lifecycle management, including product definition, distribution, underwriting, policy holder services, and claims management. Guidewire InsuranceNow Guidewire InsuranceNow is a cloud-based platform for P&C insurers that offers policy, billing, and claims management functionality to insurers that prefer to subscribe to a cloud-based, all-in-one solution. Guidewire InsuranceSuite: Add-on Applications We offer a number of additional add-on applications for Guidewire InsuranceSuite. Guidewire Underwriting Management Guidewire Underwriting Management is a cloud-based, integrated business application designed for commercial and specialty line insurers to drive premium growth and profit from better underwriting. This feature-rich workstation delivers straight-through processing, exception-based underwriting, real-time collaboration, and knowledge management in one integrated solution. Guidewire Underwriting Management is typically sold alongside Guidewire PolicyCenter, although it functions with other policy administration systems as well. Guidewire Rating Management Guidewire Rating Management enables P&C insurers to manage the pricing of their insurance products. Guidewire Reinsurance Management Guidewire Reinsurance Management enables P&C insurers to use rules-based logic to execute their reinsurance strategy through their underwriting and claims processes. Guidewire Client Data Management Guidewire Client Data Management helps P&C insurers capitalize on customer information more coherently, overcoming traditional siloed practices that impair efficiency and customer service. Guidewire Product Content Management Guidewire Product Content Management provides software tools and standards-based, line-of-business templates to enable insurers to more rapidly introduce and modify products by reducing product configuration and maintenance efforts. Any such product introduction or modification must connect to and incorporate regulatory or industry-standard data and content, such as ISO content. Guidewire AppReader Guidewire AppReader is a submission intake management solution that enables P&C insurers to process Association for Cooperative Operations Research and Development (ACORD) forms faster and more accurately than with manual processes or traditional upload solutions. AppReader is available for both Guidewire Underwriting Management and Guidewire PolicyCenter. 3 Table of Contents Guidewire London Market Messaging Guidewire London Market Messaging provides a message-processing and action framework with enhanced configuration to manage claims and settlement messages covering the Lloyds of London market and the London Company Market, as well as subscription business multi-currency reserving. Guidewire London Market Messaging is a specialized add-on for Guidewire ClaimCenter customers. Data Management and Analytics We offer a variety of applications that allow insurers to consolidate, explore and analyze the data that is generated from their own operations and the data they capture from third-party sources. Guidewire DataHub Guidewire DataHub is an operational data store that unifies, standardizes and stores data from the patchwork of an insurers systems as well as from external sources. DataHub enables carriers to accelerate legacy system replacement. Guidewire InfoCenter Guidewire InfoCenter is a business intelligence warehouse for P&C insurers that provides information in easy-to-use formats for business intelligence, analysis and enhanced decision making. With InfoCenter, customers gain flexible operational insights as well as the ability to optimize their business. Guidewire Live Analytics Guidewire Live Analytics is a cloud analytics platform that streams data from core systems and other sources into a scalable data infrastructure to enable smart business decisions. Guidewire Live Analytics applications are designed to complement Guidewires operational systems, combining data from many different sources, core systems, anonymized benchmarks, and third-party data to enable real-time exploration and visualization for more precise decision-making. Guidewire Live Analytics applications include: Explore, Claim Canvas, Compare, and Spotlight. Guidewire Predictive Analytics Guidewire Predictive Analytics is a cloud-based tool which allows insurers to make data-driven decisions throughout the insurance lifecycle. By building predictive models from multiple data sets, analyzing model output, and deploying predictive models, insurers can realize significant reductions in loss ratio and expenses. Guidewire Cyence Risk Analytics Guidewire Cyence Risk Analytics is a cloud-native economic cyber risk modeling solution built to help the insurance industry quantify cyber risk and other underwriting exposures. It enables insurers to manage portfolio exposure accumulations and develop new products. Through a process called data listening, Guidewire Cyence Risk Analytics collects technical and behavioral data from a variety of sources, including public data, open-source data, proprietary data, and third-party data. Digital Engagement Guidewire Digital Engagement Applications Our Digital Engagement Applications enable insurers to provide digital experiences to customers, agents, vendors and field personnel through their device of choice. As consumers increasingly use self-service functions on the Internet and on mobile devices, we believe that many of them prefer to interact with their insurance providers digitally and that they expect to have a consistent and efficient transactional experience through multiple channels, whether online, in-person or by phone. Our Digital Engagement Applications also benefit agents and brokers who are seeking to automate business processes with insurers to improve customer service and productivity. Technology Our applications are designed to assist P&C insurers to grow their business, improve customer and agent engagement, lower operating costs and improve decision making. We have increased the scope of Guidewire InsurancePlatform through internal development and acquisitions. This growing scope has required greater investment in the development of application interfaces and shared services necessary to unify the operations and user experience across our applications. To meet the anticipated increased demand for cloud-delivered solutions, we have increased investments to leverage the growing number of technology services provided by on-demand infrastructure vendors such as Amazon with Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Microsoft with Azure. The shift to cloud-delivered solutions has also required significant focus in improving our ability to manage and operate our applications since our cloud-based deployments, unlike our on-premise implementations, shift many operational responsibilities to us. Finally, we continue to improve the scalability of our applications, which are required to perform millions of complex transactions that must balance on a daily basis. This accuracy must be maintained not only during normal business operations, but 4 Table of Contents also during extraordinary events such as catastrophes, which may result in extremely high transaction volume in a short period of time. Services Implementation Services We provide implementation and integration services to help our customers realize the benefits of our software products and cloud-based services. Our implementation teams assist customers in building implementation plans, integrating our software with their existing systems, and defining business rules and specific requirements unique to each customer. We also partner with leading system integration consulting firms, certified on our software, to achieve scalable, cost-effective implementations for our customers. Guidewire Production Services Customers that contract with us for a cloud-based version of any Guidewire InsurancePlatform application receive access to our software, 24x7 technical management, monitoring and, in some cases, version upgrades. Customers may also receive additional services, such as defect fixes, regulatory updates, and minor platform delivery enhancements. Customers We market and sell our products to a wide variety of global P&C insurers ranging from some of the largest global insurers to national and regional carriers. We believe strong customer relationships are a key driver of our success given the long-term nature of our customer engagements and importance of customer references for new sales. We focus on developing and maintaining our customer relationships through customer service and account management. As of July 31, 2019 , we had approximately 380 customers using one or more of our products in 34 countries. Strategic Relationships We have extensive relationships with system integration, consulting, technology, and industry partners. Our network of partners has expanded as interest in and adoption of our products has grown. We encourage our partners to co-market, pursue joint sales initiatives and drive broader adoption of our technology, helping us grow our business more efficiently and enabling us to focus our engineering resources on continued innovation and further enhancement of our solutions. As part of our PartnerConnect alliance program, we have a community of Solution Partners developing integration accelerators that enable their on-premise and cloud-based software solutions to interoperate with our products. As of July 31, 2019 , more than 105 of these partner-developed integrations have been validated by us and awarded Ready for Guidewire branding. Guidewire Marketplace provides our customers with an online forum to learn about and download Ready for Guidewire integration accelerators for use with our products. These accelerators help customers reduce implementation risk and effort, and lower the total cost of implementation and operation. We anticipate expanding the reach of Guidewire Marketplace. In fiscal year 2019, we launched DevConnect, our new developer environment that makes it easier for our partners to build integrations to InsurancePlatform and easier for our customers to adopt Insurtech innovations through InsurancePlatform. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019, our Solution Partners published the first four add-ons built with DevConnect to the Guidewire Marketplace. Sales and Marketing Consistent with our industry focus and the mission-critical needs our products address, our sales and marketing efforts are tailored to communicate effectively to senior executives within the P&C industry. Our sales, marketing, and executive teams work together to cultivate long-term relationships with current and prospective customers in each of the geographies in which we are active. Our direct sales team serves as both our exclusive sales channel and our account management function and is organized by geographic region across the Americas, EMEA, and APAC. We augment our sales professionals with a presales team possessing insurance domain and technical expertise, who engage customers in sessions to understand their specific business needs and then represent our products through demonstrations tailored to address those needs. Our marketing team supports sales with competitive analysis and sales tools, while investing to strengthen our brand name and reputation. We participate at industry conferences, are published frequently in the industry press and have active relationships with all of the major industry analysts. We also host Connections, our annual user conference where customers both participate in and deliver presentations on a wide range of Guidewire and insurance technology topics. We invite potential customers and partners to our user conference, as we believe customer references are a key component of driving new sales. Our strong relationships 5 Table of Contents with leading system integrators enhance our direct sales through co-marketing efforts and by providing additional market validation of the distinctiveness and quality of our offerings. Research and Development Our research and development efforts focus on enhancing our products to meet the increasingly complex requirements of P&C insurers by broadening the capabilities and delivery options of Guidewire InsurancePlatform and its associated applications. These efforts are intended to help our customers improve their operations; drive greater digital engagement with their customers, agents and brokers; and gather, store and analyze data to improve business decisions. We also invest significantly in developing the product definitions and integrations necessary to have our applications meet the market requirements of each country or state in which we sell our software. This market-segment specific functionality must be updated regularly in order to stay current with regulatory changes in each market. We rely on a multi-national engineering team, which has grown organically and through acquisitions. Competition The software market that caters to the P&C insurance industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Increased spending by carriers on software solutions and the emergence of new platforms that have broadened from core system modernization to new digital engagement and data and analytics solutions have generated significant interest among investors and entrepreneurs. Increased capital allows market participants to adopt more aggressive go-to-market strategies, improve existing products, introduce new ones, and consolidate with other vendors. This market is also subject to changing technology preferences, shifting customer needs, and the introduction of cloud deployed solutions. These factors create an environment of increasing competition. Our current and future competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services they offer. As we expand our product portfolio, we may begin to compete with software and service providers we have not traditionally competed against. Our current competitors include, but are not limited to, internally developed proprietary solutions; P&C insurance software vendors such as Duck Creek, Insurity, Majesco, Prima Solutions, RGI, and Sapiens; and horizontal software vendors such as SAP. Competitive factors in our industry depend on the product being offered and the size, geographic market, and line of business of potential customers. The principal competitive factors include product functionality, performance, customer references, total cost of ownership, solution completeness, implementation track record, and in-depth knowledge of the P&C insurance industry. We typically compete favorably on the basis of these factors in most geographies. Intellectual Property The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, to establish and adequately protect our intellectual property rights, and to protect against third-party claims and litigation related to intellectual property. To accomplish these objectives, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements and other contractual protections. We own or have pending patents and patent applications, which generally apply to our software. Our owned patents have expiration dates starting in 2025. We also rely on several registered and unregistered trademarks, as well as pending applications for such registrations, in order to protect our brand both in the United States and internationally. Employees As of July 31, 2019 , we had 2,355 employees, including 781 in professional services, 198 in technical support and licensing operations, 724 in research and development, 354 in sales and marketing, and 298 in general and administrative roles. As of July 31, 2019 , we had 1,472 employees in the United States and 883 employees internationally. Our employees in the United States are not represented by a labor union, however, in certain foreign locations, there are workers councils that represent our employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Seasonality We have historically experienced seasonal variations in our license and subscription revenue as a result of increased customer orders in our second and fourth fiscal quarters. We generally see a modest increase in orders in our second fiscal quarter, which 6 Table of Contents is the quarter ending January 31, due to customer buying patterns. We also see significantly increased orders in our fourth fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ending July 31, due to efforts by our sales team to achieve annual incentives. This seasonal pattern, however, may be absent in any given year. Additionally, the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, referred to as Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue Recognition (ASC 606), has and could further heighten or change the seasonal impact on our new term licenses that are multi-year in nature with license revenue for the entire initial term recognized upfront upon delivery of our software. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we experienced license revenue growth due to the earlier timing of revenue recognition under ASC 606 for certain customer renewals and for a 10-year term license deal under which revenue was recognized upfront, which overshadowed the usual positive seasonal impact in our second quarter of fiscal year 2019. Additionally, as subscriptions increase as a percentage of total sales, the revenue we can recognize in the initial fiscal year of an order will be reduced, deferred revenue will increase, and our reported revenue growth will be adversely affected due to the ratable nature of these arrangements. The seasonal nature of our sales and the concentration of such sales in our fiscal fourth quarter increases this impact. Our services revenue is also subject to seasonal fluctuations, though to a lesser degree than our license revenue. Our services revenue is impacted by the number of billable days in a given fiscal quarter. The quarter ending January 31 usually has fewer billable days due to the impact of the Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Years holidays. The fiscal quarter ending July 31 usually has fewer billable days due to the impact of vacations taken by our professional staff. Because we pay our services professionals the same amount throughout the year, our gross margins on our services revenue are usually lower in these quarters. This seasonal pattern, however, may be absent in any given year. WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION The following filings are available to view and download free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and our Proxy Statement for our annual meeting of stockholders. Our website is located at www.guidewire.com , and our investor relations website is located at http://ir.guidewire.com /. We also provide a link to the section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov that has all of our public filings, including periodic reports, proxy statements and other information. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases as part of our investor relations website. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds. Further corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines and code of business conduct and ethics, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Corporate Governance. The contents of our websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 7 Table of Contents Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this report, and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. Risks Related to our Business We may experience significant quarterly and annual fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors. Our quarterly and annual results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as investors and research analysts respond to quarterly fluctuations. In addition, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis, particularly on a sequential quarterly basis, may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that may affect our results of operations include: our ability to attract new domestic and international customers and renew existing customers; seasonal buying patterns of our customers and our ability to sell additional software and services to existing customers; the proportion and timing of subscription sales as opposed to term or perpetual software licenses, and the variations in revenue recognition between these contract types; changes in contract durations of term software licenses; introduction of cloud-based licensing models that feature ratable revenue recognition; increases in costs related to cloud operations, product development, and services costs; our ability to develop and achieve market adoption of cloud-based services, including the impact of customers transitioning from term software licenses to subscription services; increases in cloud-related development and services costs; erosion in services margins or significant fluctuations in services revenue caused by changing customer demand or negotiated professional services billing rates; the structure of our licensing contracts, including acceptance terms and escalating payments over multi-year periods; our ability to enter into contracts on favorable terms, including terms related to price, payment timing, service levels, and product delivery, especially with customers and prospects that possess substantial negotiating leverage and procurement expertise; the incurrence of penalties for failing to meet certain contractual obligations, including service levels and implementation times; future accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting rules and our related accounting policies and interpretations; our ability to realize expected benefits from our acquisitions; reductions in our customers budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; the timing of hiring personnel and employee related expenses; the impact of a recession or any other adverse global economic conditions on our business, including trade tariffs, trade agreements, and other uncertainties that may cause a delay in entering into or a failure to enter into significant customer agreements; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our quarterly and annual results of operations. Further, in light of the transition to ASC 606 for revenue recognition, our recent changes to the length of license agreements, and our increased cloud-based subscription services, among other ongoing changes to our business, it is challenging to forecast our quarterly and annual results. 8 Table of Contents We believe our ability to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a potential revenue shortfall is very limited and our inability to do so could magnify the adverse impact of a potential revenue shortfall on our results of operations. If we fail to achieve our quarterly forecasts, if our forecasts fall below the expectations of investors or research analysts, or if our actual results fail to meet the expectations of investors or research analysts, our stock price may decline. Seasonal sales patterns may cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows and may prevent us from achieving our quarterly or annual forecasts, which may cause our stock price to decline. We have historically signed a higher percentage of software license orders in the second and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. We generally see increased new orders in our second fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ended January 31 st , due to customer buying patterns, and in our fourth fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ended July 31 st , due to efforts by our sales team to achieve annual incentives. As a result, a significantly higher percentage of our annual license revenue has historically been recognized in our second and fourth fiscal quarters. Since a substantial majority of our license revenue has annual renewals after the initial term of the contract, we expect to continue to experience this seasonality effect in subsequent years. Further, the adoption of ASC 606 for revenue recognition has and may continue to heighten or change the seasonal impact on our new term licenses that are multi-year in nature with more revenue recognized upfront upon delivery of our software. We currently anticipate that sales of, and revenue from, subscription services will continue to increase in the future. Subscriptions are recognized ratably over the term of the agreement after provisioning of the service, which may take up to 90 days from the date of the agreement. Over time, this may reduce the impact of our historic seasonality, but in the near term the introduction of proportionally more subscription services into our revenue stream, together with their delayed and ratable recognition, will likely impact quarter over quarter and year-over-year revenue growth comparisons and cash flow because of the ramped nature of the annual installments of these multi-year arrangements. The concentration of sales in the second and fourth fiscal quarters, including sales of subscription services, may exacerbate this effect. Our quarterly growth in license revenue also may not coincide with new orders or invoicing activity in a given quarter, which could mask the impact of seasonal variations. This mismatch is primarily due to the following reasons: revenue recognition may not occur in the period when the order is placed due to certain revenue recognition criteria not being met; we may enter into license agreements with future product delivery requirements, specified terms for product upgrades or functionality, acceptance terms, or unconditional return rights, which may require us to delay revenue recognition for the initial period; our subscription arrangements are recognized ratably and only a portion of the revenue from an order is recognized in the same fiscal period of the order; and our term license agreements generally have annual billing arrangements over the initial term even though revenue is recognized upon delivery of the product, Additionally, seasonal patterns may be affected by the timing of particularly large transactions and the large number of renewals that occur in the first fiscal quarter due to the timing of customer renewals, which were amended in anticipation of the transition to ASC 606. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we achieved higher revenue growth due to the delivery of a single license agreement with a term of ten years. Seasonal and other variations related to our revenue recognition may cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows, may make it challenging for an investor to predict our performance on a quarterly basis and may prevent us from achieving our quarterly or annual forecasts or meeting or exceeding the expectations of research analysts or investors, which in turn may cause our stock price to decline. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on orders from a relatively small number of customers in the P&C insurance industry for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of any of these customers would significantly harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our revenue is dependent on orders from customers in the P&C insurance industry, which may be adversely affected by economic, environmental, and world political conditions. A relatively small number of customers have historically accounted for a significant portion of our revenue. While the composition of our individual top customers will vary from year to year, in fiscal years 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , our ten largest customers accounted for 31%, 31%, and 26% of our revenue, respectively. Customers for this metric are measured at the parent corporation level, while our total customer count is measured at the purchasing entity level. While we expect this reliance to decrease over time as our revenue and customer base grows, we expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, if we fail to successfully sell our products and services to one or more of these anticipated customers in any particular period or fail to identify additional potential customers or such customers purchase fewer of our products or services, defer or cancel orders, fail to renew their license or subscription agreements or otherwise terminate their relationship with us, our business, results 9 Table of Contents of operations, and financial condition would be harmed. Additionally, if our sales to one or more of these anticipated customers in any particular period are ratable in nature, or if we fail to achieve the required performance or acceptance criteria for one or more of these relatively small number of customers, our quarterly and annual results of operations may fluctuate significantly. If we fail to successfully manage our transition to a business model focused on delivering cloud-based offerings on a subscription basis, our results of operations could be harmed. To address demand trends in the P&C insurance industry, we now offer customers the use of our software products through a cloud-based offering sold on a subscription basis in addition to our on-premises offering. This adjustment to our business model requires a considerable investment of technical, operational, financial, legal, and sales resources. Our software and cloud services involve the storage and transmission of customer data, including in some cases, personal data, and security breaches could result in the loss of this information, which in turn could result in litigation, breach of contract claims, indemnity obligations, harm to our reputation, and other liabilities for us. Our transition to cloud offerings will continue to divert resources, require us to hire additional resources, and increase costs, especially in cost of license and subscription revenue and research and development, in any given period. We may not be able to efficiently scale such investments to meet customer demand and expectations, which may impact our long-term growth and results of operations. Further, the increase in some costs associated with our cloud services, such as the cost of public infrastructure, may be difficult to predict over time, especially in light of our lack of historical experience with the costs of delivering cloud-based versions of our applications. Our subscription contracts also contain penalty clauses, for matters such as failing to meet stipulated service levels, which represent new risks we are not accustomed to managing. Should these penalties be triggered, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Furthermore, we may assume greater responsibilities for implementation related services during this transition. As a result, we may face risks associated with new and complex implementations, the cost of which may differ from original estimates. As with our stated history, penalties and cost could take the form of monetary credits for current or future service engagements, reduced fees for additional product sales, and a customers refusal to pay its contractually-obligated subscription or service fees. Revenue under our cloud-based subscription model will generally be recognized ratably over the term of the contract. The transition to ratable revenue recognition will result in lower license revenue we otherwise would have recognized in the initial period of the customer agreement in those periods in which the portion of our revenue attributable to ratable subscription contracts grows. This effect on recognized revenue may be magnified in any fiscal year due to the concentration of our orders in the fourth fiscal quarter. A combination of increased costs and delayed recognition of revenue would adversely impact our gross and operating margins during those periods. Additionally, the change in our business model and transition of our customers from on-premise licenses to cloud-based subscription services could negatively affect our ability to forecast the timing and amount of our revenues in any period. In addition, market acceptance of our cloud-based offerings may be affected by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, price, security, reliability, performance, customer preference, public concerns regarding privacy, and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations. We are in the early stages of re-architecting our existing products and developing new products in an effort to offer customers greater choices on how they utilize our software. As our business practices in this area develop and evolve over time, we may be required to revise the subscription agreements we initially develop in connection with this transition, which may result in revised terms and conditions that impact how we recognize revenue and the costs and risks associated with these offerings. Whether our product development efforts or business model transition will prove successful and accomplish our business objectives is subject to numerous uncertainties and risks, including, but not limited to, customer demand, our ability to further develop, manage, and scale infrastructure, our ability to include functionality and usability in such offerings that address customer requirements, tax, and accounting implications, and our costs. In addition, the metrics we and our investors use to gauge the status of our business model transition may evolve over the course of the transition as significant trends emerge. It may be difficult, therefore, to accurately determine the impact of this transition on our business on a contemporaneous basis, or to clearly communicate the appropriate metrics to our investors. If we are unable to successfully establish these new cloud offerings and navigate our business model transition in light of the foregoing risks and uncertainties, our reputation could suffer and our results of operations could be harmed, which may cause our stock price to decline. Increases in services revenue as a percentage of total revenue or lower services margins could adversely affect our overall gross margins and profitability. Our services revenue was 35% , 41% , and 34% of total revenue for fiscal years 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively. Our services revenue produces lower gross margins than our license and subscription revenue. The gross margin of our services revenue was 2% , 7% , and 7% for fiscal years 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively, while the gross margin for license and subscription revenue was 83% , 89% , and 94% for fiscal years 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively. An increase in the percentage of total revenue represented by services revenue, like we experienced in fiscal year 2018 due to acquisitions and the recognition of revenue on certain cloud-based implementations that were completed in prior years, or lower services margins could reduce our overall gross 10 Table of Contents margins and operating margins. Such a trend can be the result of several factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including increased customer demand for our service team involvement in new products and services, the rates we charge for our services, our ability to bill our customers for all time incurred to complete a project, and the extent to which system integrators are willing and able to provide services directly to customers. Erosion in our services margins would also adversely affect our gross and operating margins. Services margins may erode for a period of time as we work to grow our business and overall revenue; for instance, services margins may erode if we hire and train additional services personnel to support new products including cloud-based services, if we require additional service personnel to support entry into new markets, or if we require additional personnel on unexpectedly difficult projects to ensure customer success, perhaps without commensurate compensation. Services margins may also decline if we are required to defer services revenue in connection with an engagement. This may happen if our term license and services are considered a combined performance obligation. In fiscal year 2017, for example, we deferred a significant amount of revenue and direct costs associated with one project, which reduced margins and reported services revenue during fiscal year 2017, and increased margins and services revenue during fiscal year 2018 when certain amounts of this deferred revenue and direct costs were recognized. If our products or cloud-based services experience data security breaches, and there is unauthorized access to our customers data, we may lose current or future customers and our reputation and business may be harmed. If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our cloud services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may reduce the use of or stop using our services, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our software and cloud services involve the storage and transmission of customer data, including in some cases, personal data, and security breaches could result in the loss of this information, which in turn could result in litigation, breach of contract claims, indemnity obligations, and other liabilities for our company. While we have taken steps to protect the confidential information and customer data to which we have access, including confidential information we may obtain through our customer support services or customer usage of our cloud-based services, our security measures could be breached. We rely on third-party technology and systems for a variety of services, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions, and our ability to control or prevent breaches of any of these systems may be beyond our control. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer data and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third-party vendor, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new customers or to increase engagement by existing customers, could cause existing customers to elect not to renew their term licenses or subscription agreements, or could subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. We face intense competition in our market, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition and cause our market share to decline. The market for our software and services is intensely competitive. The competitors we face in any sale opportunity may change depending on, among other things, the line of business purchasing the software, the application being sold, the geography in which we are operating, and the size of the insurance carrier to which we are selling. For example, we are more likely to face competition from small independent firms when addressing the needs of small insurers. These competitors may compete on the basis of price, the time and cost required for software implementation, custom development, or unique product features or functions. Outside of the United States, we are more likely to compete against vendors that may differentiate themselves based on local advantages in language, market knowledge, and pre-built content applicable to that jurisdiction. We also compete with vendors of horizontal software products that may be customized to address needs of the P&C insurance industry. Additionally, many of our prospective customers operate firmly entrenched legacy systems, some of which have been in operation for decades. Our implementation cycles may be lengthy, variable, and require the investment of significant time and expense by our customers. These expenses and associated operating risks attendant on any significant process of re-engineering and technology implementation, may cause customers to prefer maintaining legacy systems. Also, maintaining these legacy systems may be so time consuming and costly for our customers that they do not have adequate resources to devote to the purchase and implementation of our products. We also compete against technology consulting firms that either helped create such legacy systems or may own, in full or in part, subsidiaries that develop software and systems for the P&C insurance industry. As we expand our product portfolio, we may begin to compete with software and service providers we have not competed against previously. Such potential competitors offer data and analytics tools that may, in time, become more competitive with our offerings. 11 Table of Contents We expect the intensity of competition to remain high in the future, as the amount of capital invested in current and potential competitors has increased significantly in recent years, and this may lead to improved product or sales capabilities, which in turn could lead to new or expanded partnerships with systems integrators. Continuing intense competition could result in increased pricing pressure, increased sales and marketing expenses, and greater investments in research and development, each of which could negatively impact our profitability. In addition, the failure to increase, or the loss of, market share would harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, and/or future prospects. Our larger current and potential competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products than we can devote to ours, which could allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new technologies and changes in customer needs, thus leading to their wider market acceptance. We may not be able to compete effectively and competitive pressures may prevent us from acquiring and maintaining the customer base necessary for us to increase our revenue and profitability. In addition, our industry is evolving rapidly and we anticipate the market for cloud-based solutions will become increasingly competitive. If our current and potential customers move a greater proportion of their data and computational needs to the cloud, new competitors may emerge that offer services either comparable or better suited than ours to address the demand for such cloud-based solutions, which could reduce demand for our offerings. To compete effectively we will likely be required to increase our investment in research and development, as well as the personnel and third-party services required to improve reliability and lower the cost of delivery of our cloud-based solutions. This may increase our costs more than we anticipate and may adversely impact our results of operations. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to further enhance their resources and offerings. Current or potential competitors may be acquired by other vendors or third parties with greater available resources. As a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be more able than we are to adapt quickly to new technologies and customer needs, to devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, to initiate or withstand substantial price competition, or to take advantage of emerging opportunities by developing and expanding their product and service offerings more quickly than we can. Additionally, they may hold larger portfolios of patents and other intellectual property rights as a result of such relationships or acquisitions. If we are unable to compete effectively with these evolving competitors for market share, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violation by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the software industry own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims against us. From time to time, third parties holding such intellectual property rights, including leading companies, competitors, patent holding companies, and/or non-practicing entities, may assert patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property claims against us, our customers and partners, and those from whom we license technology and intellectual property. Although we believe that our products and services do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, we cannot assure that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to current or future products or services, or that any such assertions will not require us to enter into royalty arrangements, result in costly litigation, or result in us being unable to use certain intellectual property. We cannot assure that we are not infringing or otherwise violating any third-party intellectual property rights. Infringement assertions from third parties may involve patent holding companies or other patent owners who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore our own issued and pending patents may provide little or no deterrence to these patent owners in bringing intellectual property rights claims against us. If we are forced to defend against any infringement or misappropriation claims, whether they are with or without merit, are settled out of court or are determined in our favor, we may be required to expend significant time and financial resources on the defense of such claims. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a partys intellectual property; cease making, licensing, or using our products or services that are alleged to infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to redesign our products or services; enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or works; and to indemnify our partners, customers, and other third parties. Any of these events could seriously harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may expand through acquisitions or partnerships with other companies, which may divert our managements attention and result in unexpected operating and technology integration difficulties, increased costs, and dilution to our stockholders. 12 Table of Contents Our business strategy includes the potential acquisition of shares or assets of companies with software, technologies, or businesses complementary to ours. Our strategy also includes alliances with such companies. For example, in March 2016, we acquired EagleEye Analytics Inc., a provider of cloud-based predictive analytics products designed for P&C insurers; in August 2016, we acquired FirstBest Systems, Inc., a provider of an underwriting management system for P&C insurers; in February 2017, we acquired ISCS, Inc., a provider of a cloud-based, all-in-one platform that offers policy, billing, and claims management functionality for P&C insurers; and in November 2017, we acquired Cyence, a Software-as-a-Service company that applies data science and risk analytics to enable P&C insurers to underwrite 21st century risks such as terrorism, cybersecurity, and reputational risk. Each of these acquisitions was initially dilutive to earnings. Acquisitions and alliances may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may not result in the benefits anticipated by such corporate activity. In particular, we may fail to assimilate or integrate the businesses, technologies, services, products, personnel, or operations of the acquired companies, retain key personnel necessary to favorably execute the combined companies business plan, or retain existing customers or sell acquired products to new customers. Acquisitions and alliances may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our current business. In addition, we may be required to make additional capital investments or undertake remediation efforts to ensure the success of our acquisitions, which may reduce the benefits of such acquisitions. We also may be required to use a substantial amount of our cash or issue debt or equity securities to complete an acquisition or realize the potential of an alliance, which could deplete our cash reserves and/or dilute our existing stockholders. Following an acquisition or the establishment of an alliance offering new products, the timing of revenue from the sale of products that we acquired or that result from the alliance, or from the sale of a bundle of products that includes such new products, may be different than the timing of revenue from existing products. In addition, our ability to maintain favorable pricing of new products may be challenging if we bundle such products with sales of existing products. A delay in the recognition of revenue from sales of acquired or alliance products, or reduced pricing due to bundled sales, may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results, may adversely affect our operating margins, and may reduce the benefits of such acquisitions or alliances. Additionally, competition within the software industry for acquisitions of businesses, technologies, and assets has been, and may continue to be, intense. As such, even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to pursue, the target may be acquired by another strategic buyer or financial buyer such as a private equity firm, or we may otherwise not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Moreover, in addition to our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, including our revenue or return on investment assumptions, we may be exposed to unknown liabilities or impairment charges to acquired intangible assets and goodwill as a result of acquisitions we do complete. The nature of our business requires the application of revenue and expense recognition guidance that requires management to make estimates and assumptions. Additionally, changes in accounting guidance on revenue recognition, such as the recent adoption of ASC 606, have caused and may cause us to experience greater volatility in our quarterly and annual results. If we are unsuccessful in adapting to the requirements of the new guidance, or in clearly explaining to stockholders how new guidance affects reporting of our results of operations, our stock price may decline. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue, and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. While we believe that our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we cannot predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles or our accounting policies on our financial statements going forward. In addition, were we to change our critical accounting estimates, including those related to the timing of revenue recognition and those used to allocate revenue between various performance obligations, our reported revenue and results of operations could be significantly impacted, as they were by the adoption of ASC 606. The accounting rules and regulations that we must comply with are complex. Additionally, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) and the SEC have focused on the integrity of financial reporting, and many companies' accounting policies are being subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the public. Further, the accounting rules and regulations are continually changing in ways that could materially impact our financial statements. The FASB issued ASC 606, accounting guidance on revenue recognition, that became effective for us on August 1, 2018. The standard permits the use of either the full retrospective or modified retrospective method. We selected the modified retrospective method, and we recorded a net increase to opening retained earnings of $44.3 million as of August 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method. This amount primarily represents revenue that would have been recognized in fiscal year 2019 under old guidance but would have been recognized prior to fiscal year 2019 under new guidance. The implementation of ASC 606 could cause the following risks: 13 Table of Contents investors misunderstanding of our business and underlying trends and what they could mean for the underlying success of our business; misinterpretation of historic and future trends; and mistakes by us in explaining our historical results or new known trends under ASC 606. In order to reduce the risk of financial statement volatility, we revised our contracting practices primarily by shortening the initial non-refundable term of our licenses. If we are unsuccessful in adapting our business to the requirements of the new revenue standard, or if changes to our go-to-market strategy create new risks, then we may experience greater volatility in our quarterly and annual results, which may cause our stock price to decline. In addition to greater volatility, the application of this new guidance may result in a material adverse effect on our recognized revenue and net income, despite no change in associated cash flows. Further, under ASC 606, more judgment and estimates will be required within the revenue recognition process than was required under previous GAAP. We currently anticipate that this standard could create additional volatility in our reported revenue and results of operations, which could negatively impact our stock price. The restatement of our financial statements may lead to additional risks and uncertainties, including regulatory, stockholder or other actions, loss of investor and counterparty confidence and negative impacts on our stock price. Our audit committee, after consultation with management and discussion with our independent registered public accounting firm, concluded that our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2018 and 2017 should be restated for the reasons described in the Explanatory Note preceding Part I, Item 1 and Note 1 The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Restatement of Annual Consolidated Financial Statements of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018 under Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018, filed on June 3, 2019. As a result of the restatement and associated non-reliance on our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, we have become subject to a number of additional costs and risks, including unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in connection with or related to the restatement. In addition, the attention of our management team has been diverted by these efforts. We could also be subject to regulatory, stockholder, or other actions in connection with the restatement, which would, regardless of the outcome, consume managements time and attention and may result in additional legal, accounting, and other costs. If we do not prevail in any such proceedings, we could be required to pay damages or settlement costs. In addition, the restatement and related matters could impair our reputation or could cause our customers, stockholders, or other counterparties to lose confidence in us. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future or identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner could be adversely affected, investor confidence in our company could diminish, and the value of our common stock may decline. Preparing our consolidated financial statements involves a number of complex manual and automated processes, which are dependent upon individual data input or review and require significant management judgment. One or more of these processes may result in errors that may not be detected and could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) requires, among other things, that as a publicly-traded company we disclose whether our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure