Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Hewlett Packard Enterprise") may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. The words "believe", "expect", "anticipate", "intend", "will", "estimates", "may", "likely", "could", "should" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to the scope and duration of the novel coronavirus pandemic ("COVID-19"), other outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises, and the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, our actions in response thereto, and their impacts on our business, operations, liquidity and capital resources, employees, customers, partners, supply chain, financial results, and the world economy; any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, investments, effective tax rates, interest rates, the impact of tax law changes (including those in the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022) and related guidance and regulations, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, liquidity and capital resources, inventory, goodwill, impairment charges, hedges and derivatives and related offsets, order backlog, benefit plan funding, deferred tax assets, share repurchases, currency exchange rates, repayments of debts including our asset-backed debt securities, or other financial items; recent amendments to accounting guidance and any potential impacts on our financial reporting therefrom; any projections of the amount, execution, timing, and results of any transformation or impact of cost savings, restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions related to the anticipated benefits, cost savings, or charges of implementing such transformation and restructuring plans; any statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations, as well as the execution of corporate transactions or contemplated acquisitions, research and development expenditures, and any resulting benefit, cost savings, charges, or revenue or profitability improvements; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share, or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements concerning technological and market trends, the pace of technological innovation, and adoption of new technologies, including products and services offered by Hewlett Packard Enterprise; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its financial performance; any statements regarding future regulatory trends and the resulting legal and reputational exposure, including but not limited to those relating to environmental, social, and governance issues; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims, or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties, and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing Hewlett Packard Enterprise's businesses; the competitive pressures faced by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's businesses; risks associated with executing Hewlett Packard Enterprise's strategy; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events, including but not limited to supply chain constraints, the inflationary environment, the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and the relationship between China and the U.S.; the need to effectively manage third-party suppliers and distribute Hewlett Packard Enterprise's products and services; the protection of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties and intellectual property shared with its former parent; risks associated with Hewlett Packard Enterprise's international operations (including from pandemics and public health problems, such as the outbreak of COVID-19, and geopolitical events, such as those mentioned above); the development of and transition to new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its suppliers, customers, clients, and partners, including any impact thereon resulting from macroeconomic or geopolitical events; the hiring and retention of key employees; the execution, integration, and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the impact of changes to privacy, cybersecurity, environmental, global trade, and other governmental regulations; changes in our product, lease, intellectual property, or real estate portfolio; the payment or non-payment of a dividend for any period; the efficacy of using non-GAAP, rather than GAAP, financial measures in business projections and planning; the judgments required in connection with determining revenue recognition; impact of company policies and related compliance; utility of segment realignments; allowances for recovery of receivables and warranty obligations; provisions for, and resolution of, pending investigations, claims, and disputes; the impacts of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 and related guidance or regulations; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the items discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part I of this report and that are otherwise described or updated from time to time in Hewlett Packard Enterprise's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hewlett Packard Enterprise assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable law. 1 Table of Conten t PART I ITEM 1. Business We are a global technology leader focused on developing intelligent solutions that allow customers to capture, analyze and act upon data seamlessly from edge to cloud. We enable customers to accelerate business outcomes by driving new business models, creating new customer and employee experiences, and increasing operational efficiency today and into the future. Our customers range from small-and-medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") to large global enterprises and governmental entities. Our legacy dates back to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard, and we strive every day to uphold and enhance that legacy through our dedication to providing innovative technological solutions to our customers. We use the terms "Hewlett Packard Enterprise", "HPE", "the Company", "we", "us", and "our" to refer to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. COVID-19 Pandemic Update While great progress has been made in the fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic ("COVID-19" or "pandemic"), there remain global challenges from the pandemic's lasting effects. In fiscal 2022 and 2021, due to an unprecedented demand for electronic devices and related industry-wide supply constraints, the global economy encountered a challenging supply chain environment. At the end of fiscal 2022, the supply chain challenges we experienced as a result of the pandemic eased, but we are currently unable to predict the extent to which they may adversely impact our future business operations, financial performance and results of operations. For a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and actions taken in response to COVID-19, see risks identified in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A. In 2021, HPE adopted vaccination policies to protect the health and safety of our team members and customers. We monitored the situation, including pandemic-related case data and broader government health guidelines, in order to update these policies as the situation evolved. During most of fiscal 2022, our team members in the U.S. were required to be vaccinated in order to enter our sites, work at customer and third-party sites, and for travel to attend work-related events, unless the team member had an approved exemption granted by our human resources organization and underwent routine testing. Given the effectiveness and broad access of v accines, along with their acceptance by a high percentage of our U.S. workforce, as of September 6, 2022, we lifted our vaccination requirement for access to sites, travel, and work-related events in the U.S. However, any team member or contingent worker working at or visiting customer or third-party sites must continue to comply with those parties' rules and provide proof of vaccination or a negative test. Outside of the U.S., sites are open at varying capacities based on local pandemic conditions and risk mitigation strategies enacted by country leadership. We maintain compliance with all local laws and regulations with respect to office attendance and safety protocols. Our Strategy Over the last several years, new megatrends around edge, cloud, and data have emerged to shape customer expectations for enterprise technology. First, data at the edge is increasing exponentially, driven by the proliferation of devices that require secure connectivity to enable reliable digital experiences. Second, enterprises need a cloud experience everywhere to manage data and workloads wherever they live across a distributed enterprise. Third, data growth is creating countless new opportunities to generate meaningful business insights. Customer response to these megatrends has been accelerated by the pandemic and the increasing pace of technological innovation. In concert with these trends, enterprises are consuming their technology differently. Increasingly, customers want to digitally transform while preserving capital and eliminating operating expense by paying only for the information technology ("IT") they use. The megatrends are ushering in long-lasting changes to IT, including accelerating hybrid multi-cloud adoption. Customers across industry verticals are interested in unifying all the applications and data with a consistent cloud experience. Customers also want to better extract value from their growing stores of rapidly evolving data, knowing that actionable insights from data are critical to deliver business outcomes. Data is becoming more unstructured, more time-sensitive and more distributed. Frequently, data is siloed and spread across different multi-gen IT systems, often trapped in critical legacy architecture. Many organizations cannot adequately gain insights from their data at the edge or face cloud migration challenges because of their legacy applications. Customers need a data-first modernization approach across edge to data center to cloud. HPE has deployed an edge-to-cloud strategy that capitalizes on emergent megatrends and delivers a data-first modernization approach for customers. Our vision to be the edge-to-cloud company has led us to innovate our solutions across connectivity, cloud, and data. We have shifted our mix of products and services, and how we deliver that mix to customers. 2 Table of Conten t HPE has evolved to a platform-based model, fueled by a portfolio richer in software and services. Our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform is a centerpiece of our strategy; it accelerates multi-generation IT transformation through a unified cloud services experience that empowers customers to access, analyze, and extract value from their data across public clouds, data centers, colocation facilities, and at the edge. Our solutions across connectivity, cloud and data are delivered as-a-service through the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform across our Intelligent Edge, Compute, High Performance Computing & Artificial Intelligence ("HPC & AI"), and Storage business segments. Financial Services complements our solution offerings by helping customers unlock financial capacity. Human Capital Resources At HPE we are united by our purpose, which is to advance the way people live and work. We believe technologys greatest promise lies in its potential for positive change. This is the guidepost for each decision we make at HPE. We believe it not only helps guide our contribution to society, but also makes good business sense. Our company has always been an engine of innovation, and our approximately 60,200 employees as of October 31, 2022, are proud of the ways our technology enables our customers to achieve meaningful outcomes like curing disease, modernizing farming to cure world-hunger and democratizing transportation through autonomous vehicles. Our Culture: We recognize the critical importance of talent and culture to the success of HPE and our ability to fulfill our purpose. We are passionate about the values that drive our success, which is why we believe in investing in our team members and in the communities where we live and work. HPE has intensified its focus on embedding these values into a vibrant culture that creates a superior team member experience and a highly engaged workforce, driving improvements across our communications, our reward programs, and our work environment. Through such efforts, we aim to foster a collaborative, inclusive and inspiring experience for all our team members. Our most recent global engagement survey shows how these intentional efforts are making a difference, with our overall Employee Engagement Index measuring 83%. More than 84% of team members would recommend HPE as a great place to work, and 88% say they are proud to work for HPE. Building a Vibrant Culture: We have identified four key cultural beliefs that guide how we lead on a daily basis: belief in accelerating whats next, bold moves, the power of yes we can, and being a force for good. We embed these beliefs in a deep-rooted DNA that puts customers first, enabling us to partner, innovate and act with integrity. Our empowered and engaging culture is making HPE a destination for talent while driving innovation and excellence for our customers. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: We are committed to being unconditionally inclusive to capture the ideas and perspectives that advance the way we live and work by enabling our workforce, customers, and communities to succeed in the digital age. This is because, by harnessing the potential of our technologies and our team members, we can be a force for good. Annual goals are set to increase the representation of both worldwide female employees and worldwide female executives by at least 1 percentage point year-over-year. Aspirational goals are also set to double our U.S. Black and Hispanic executive headcounts by 2027, from 2020 levels. At the close of fiscal 2022, the representation of worldwide female executives in our workforce had increased 1.5 percentage points since the prior year, with increased representation at every level worldwide. We also increased our representation of all underrepresented minorities in the U.S. by 1.3 percentage points overall. We are committed to delivering on our focus on equity, as well, by taking a data-led approach at various points across the team member lifecycle to evaluate and improve our diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts. In the U.S., the HPE Voice of the Workforce Employee Engagement Index is 81%. All HPE Employee Engagement Indexes for U.S. ethnically diverse talent groups were the same or better, some by as much as 8 percentage points. The leadership standards clearly articulate that all people leaders are expected to continuously develop their inclusive leadership capabilities. Our Board, CEO, and Executive Committee model high standards for diversity, equity, and inclusion and are leading sustainable change, with strong governance and oversight via our Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Council. We have also been committed to advancing transparency, by publicly disclosing further information and data on diversity, equity, and inclusion at HPE, including the Equal Employment Opportunity report (EEO-1) data, since 2018. Talent: We invest in attracting, developing, and retaining the best talent. We do this by communicating a clear purpose and strategy, setting transparent goals, driving accountability, continuously assessing, developing, and advancing talent, and advancing a leadership-driven talent strategy. The dynamism of our industry and our company enables team members to grow in their current roles and build new skills. Over the past year, our approximately 60,200 team members completed over 665,000 online and instructor-led courses across a broad range of categories leadership; inclusion and diversity; professional skills; technical; and compliance. HPE is deeply committed to identifying and developing the next generation of top tier leadership with a special focus on diverse and technical talent. We conduct an in-depth annual talent and succession review with our CEO and Executive Committee members. The process focuses on accelerating talent development, strengthening succession pipelines, and advancing diversity representation for our most critical roles. 3 Table of Conten t Pay Equity: We believe people should be paid equitably for what they do and how they do it, regardless of their gender, race, or other personal characteristics. We maintain policies to promote equal pay, and we regularly review our global pay practices with an aim to ensure that team members in similar roles and locations are paid commensurately with their experience and responsibilities. We partner with independent third-party experts to conduct annual pay assessments and identify unexplained gaps between our present state and our goal of equitable pay treatment for all team members. Where these reviews identify such gaps at a country-wide level, we adjust compensation to eliminate the gap. As a result of our efforts, we are proud to report that our 2021 pay equity review demonstrated that we have achieved pay parity for base compensation and bonus targets between male and female team members in the U.S. (including among underrepresented ethnicities), U.K., and India, when accounting for job title, time-in-role, experience, and location. We conduct a number of compensation analyses in other countries to provide competitive and equitable pay and, where permissible, we intend to incorporate similar third-party pay assessments into our existing processes. Work That Fits Your Life: This global initiative, which was launched in 2019, is an important example of how HPE is investing in our culture and creating a team member experience that makes HPE a destination of choice for the best talent in the industry. It includes an industry-leading paid parental leave program (minimum 6 months), part-time work opportunities for new parents or team members transitioning to retirement, and "Wellness Fridays" encouraging team members to leave work early one Friday per month to focus on their well-being. The HPE Global Wellness Program is a comprehensive program that promotes overall health and well-being by providing team members with programs and resources that offer flexibility built around team member needs while continuing to deliver on critical business results. The program consists of four pillars: physical health, financial well-being, mental and emotional health, and community well-being. Additionally, we offer a hybrid work environment for the majority of our team members, allowing them substantial flexibility to determine the number of days in the office that work best for them. Total Rewards: HPE requires a uniquely talented workforce and is committed to providing total rewards that are market-competitive and performance based, driving innovation and operational excellence. Our compensation programs, practices, and policies reflect our commitment to reward short- and long-term performance that aligns with, and drives stockholder value. Total direct compensation is generally positioned within a competitive range of the market median, with differentiation based on tenure, skills, proficiency, and performance to attract and retain key talent. Board Oversight: Our Board of Directors plays an active role in overseeing our human capital management strategy and programs. Our HR and Compensation Committee provides oversight of our human resources and workforce management programs, including but not limited to those related to corporate culture; compensation plans and policies; diversity and inclusion; and talent acquisition, development, and retention. HPEs strong and healthy culture is critical to accelerating whats next for our customers and partners and the success of our company. Our team is energized and more engaged than ever and will enable our ability to pivot and grow, which will, in turn, power the next chapter at Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Our Business Segments, Products and Services Our operations are organized into six reportable business segments: Compute, HPC & AI, Storage, Intelligent Edge, Financial Services, and Corporate Investments and Other. The class of similar product categories within each segment which accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue in each of the past three years was as follows: Fiscal 2022 - Compute products, Compute services, Intelligent Edge products Fiscal 2021 - Compute products, Compute services, Storage products Fiscal 2020 - Compute products, Storage products, Compute services A summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments can be found in Note 2, "Segment Information", to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. A discussion of certain factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Compute Our Compute portfolio consists of both general-purpose servers for multi-workload computing and workload-optimized servers to deliver the best performance and value for demanding applications. This portfolio of products includes our secure and versatile HPE ProLiant rack and tower servers and HPE Synergy, a composable infrastructure for traditional and cloud-native applications. HPE ProLiant servers are the compute foundation for the fastest growing workloads in the industry including hyperconverged infrastructure ("HCI"), virtual workspaces, data management, transcoding and visualization. Compute offerings also include operational and support services and HPE GreenLake for Compute. HPE GreenLake for Compute provides flexible Compute as-a-service IT infrastructure on a consumption basis through the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform. 4 Table of Conten t HPC & AI Our HPC & AI business offers integrated systems comprised of software and hardware designed to address High-Performance Computing ("HPC"), Artificial Intelligence ("AI"), Data Analytics, and Transaction Processing workloads for government and commercial customers globally. Our solutions are segmented into the following categories: HPC and Data Solutions. The HPC portfolio of products includes HPE Cray, HPE Apollo, and Converged Edge Systems (formerly known as Edge Compute) hardware, software, and data management appliances that are often sold as supercomputing systems, including exascale supercomputers (systems that can process 10 18 floating point calculations per second), that support data-intensive simulations and large-scale AI applications. The Data Solutions portfolio includes the mission critical compute portfolio and HPE NonStop. The mission critical compute portfolio includes the HPE Superdome Flex and HPE Integrity product lines for critical applications, including large enterprise software applications and data analytics platforms. The HPE NonStop portfolio includes high-availability, fault-tolerant software and appliances that power applications, such as credit-card transaction processing that require large scale and high availability. As part of our systems are aligned to the convergence of HPC and AI-at-scale across our industry, HPE offers a suite of software products, including AI-powered technologies designed to play a critical role in turning data into readily available, actionable information to fuel growth and innovation for our customers. These include a software stack to train AI models using our open-source machine learning platform. HPC & AI offerings also include operational and support services, whether sold with our systems or as standalone services. We also offer most of our solutions as-a-service through the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform. With offerings that are AI-driven and built for hybrid cloud environments with HPE GreenLake consumption models, we provide the right workload optimized destinations for data and insights development for our clients. A portion of HPC & AI revenue is generated in part by sales to government entities, which are subject to the terms and rights for the convenience of the government entity. These terms and rights include in some instances a dependence on the appropriation of future funding and also termination rights contingent upon not achieving certain milestones. For a discussion of certain risks related to contracts with government entities, see Item 1A, "Risk FactorsFailure to comply with government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations". Storage HPE Storage is transforming the customer experience with storage as-a-service and cloud data services through the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform and data infrastructure to enable customers to simplify IT and unlock greater levels of agility with a cloud operational experience. The customer experience transformation also includes AI and data-driven intelligence with HPE InfoSight and HPE CloudPhysics. Customers can store and serve their data with speed and high availability to applications, secure and protect their data across hybrid clouds from ransomware and cyber threats, and gain data mobility across private cloud, public cloud, and multi-cloud environments. The Storage portfolio includes primary storage product and service offerings, which includes software-powered HCI consisting of HPE Nimble Storage Disaggregated HCI and HPE SimpliVity, cloud native primary storage with HPE Primera and HPE Alletra, our first storage as-a-service with HPE GreenLake for Block Storage, disaster recovery and ransomware recovery with Zerto, backup as-a-service with HPE Backup and Recovery Service, and big data solutions running on HPE Apollo servers. Storage also provides solutions for secondary workloads and traditional tape, storage networking, and disk products, such as HPE Modular Storage Arrays ("MSA") and HPE XP. Storage offerings also include operational and support services, software subscription services, and data infrastructure portfolio and solutions delivered as-a-service through the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform. Intelligent Edge The Intelligent Edge business is comprised of a portfolio of secure edge-to-cloud solutions operating under the Aruba brand that include wired and wireless local area network ("LAN"), campus and data center switching, software-defined wide area networking, network security, and associated services to enable secure connectivity for businesses of any size. The primary business drivers for Intelligent Edge solutions are work from anywhere environments, mobility, and internet-of-things ("IoT"). The insights from data generated at the edge are key to driving new business outcomes and experiences. The HPE Aruba product portfolio includes hardware products, such as Wi-Fi access points, switches, and gateways. The HPE Aruba software and services portfolio includes cloud-based management, network management, network access control, analytics and assurance, location services software, and professional and support services, as well as as-a-service and consumption models through the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform for the Intelligent Edge portfolio of products. 5 Table of Conten t We also offer Aruba ESP (or Edge Services Platform), which takes a cloud-native approach to helping customers meet their connectivity, security, and financial requirements across campus, branch, data center, and remote worker environments, covering all aspects of wired, wireless LAN, and wide area networking. Financial Services Financial Services ("FS") provides flexible investment solutions, such as leasing, financing, IT consumption, utility programs, and asset management services for customers that facilitate unique technology deployment models and the acquisition of complete IT solutions, including hardware, software, and services from Hewlett Packard Enterprise and others. FS also supports financial solutions for on-premise flexible consumption models, such as our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform. In order to provide flexible services and capabilities that support the entire IT life cycle, FS partners with customers globally to help build investment strategies that enhance their business agility and support their business transformation. FS offers a wide selection of investment solution capabilities for large enterprise customers and channel partners, along with an array of financial options to SMBs and educational and governmental entities. Corporate Investments and Other Corporate Investments and Other includes the Advisory and Professional Services ("A & PS") business, which primarily offers consultative-led services, HPE and partner technology expertise and advice, implementation services, and complex solution engagement capabilities; the Communications and Media Solutions ("CMS") business, which primarily offers software and related services to the telecommunications industry; the HPE Software business, which offers the HPE Ezmeral Container Platform and HPE Ezmeral Data Fabric; and Hewlett Packard Labs, which is responsible for research and development. Our Strengths We believe that we possess a number of competitive advantages that distinguish us from our competitors, including: Edge-to-cloud strategy and solutions uniquely solve customer challenges. As data grows and evolves and enterprises become increasingly distributed, HPEs edge-to-cloud strategy is uniquely designed to enable customers to securely access, control, and maximize the value of all their workloads and data assets to accelerate business outcomes. The HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform is an open, secure, fully integrated platform that brings a unified experience across the edge, data center, colocation, and cloud. It is automated and easy to consume with capacity available to scale up and down on demand. It offers true pay per use consumption so customers only pay for what they use, and they can have the entire hybrid cloud experience managed for them through our HPE GreenLake managed services offering. Comprehensive portfolio. We have a distinctive and industry leading portfolio of edge-to-cloud solutions and unique capabilities to help accelerate our customers' digital transformations. We combine our software-defined infrastructure and services capabilities to provide what we believe is the strongest portfolio of enterprise solutions in the IT industry. Our ability to deliver a comprehensive IT strategy and connect our customers' data from edge to cloud, through our high-quality products and high-value consulting and support services in a single package, is one of our principal differentiators. Differentiated consumption-based IT solutions for a growing opportunity. Enterprises of all sizes are looking to digitally transform in order to develop next-generation cloud-native applications, create actionable insights from their data, and drive business growth, but they face many challenges including lack of in-house IT skills, limited budgets and options for financing, and lack of flexibility to choose the technology foundation that best meets their needs. Consumption-based IT offers solutions to these challenges by providing greater agility, which empowers people to shift from managing infrastructure to driving innovation by leveraging insights from their data, while also eliminating capital and operating expenses tied to infrastructure over-provisioning. HPE is distinctly differentiated in delivering a true consumption-based IT experience. Open platforms. The world is shifting from centralized and closed approaches in large data centers to a future of centers of data everywhere, which are highly decentralized and distributed. This shift demands a unified cloud platform that can put the agility and intelligence close to customers data sources to create real-time insights everywhere. We believe the cloud experience should be open and seamless across all our customers' clouds, rather than requiring customers to be locked into a cloud stack. Multi-year innovation roadmap and strong balance sheet. We have been in the technology and innovation business for over 80 years. Our vast intellectual property portfolio and global research and development capabilities are part of a broader innovation roadmap designed to help organizations take advantage of the expanding amount of data available and leverage the latest technology developments such as cloud, artificial intelligence, supercomputing, and cybersecurity to drive business outcomes now and in the future. We also have a strong balance sheet and liquidity profile that provide the financial flexibility and speed to take advantage of acquisition opportunities. 6 Table of Conten t Global distribution and partner ecosystem. We are experts in delivering innovative technological solutions to our customers in complex multi-country, multi-vendor and/or multi-language environments. We have one of the largest go-to-market capabilities in our industry, including a large ecosystem of channel partners, which enables us to market and deliver our product offerings to customers located virtually anywhere in the world. Our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform provides open cloud application programming interfaces ("APIs") to our partners, enabling them to better offer their unique solutions to customers. Custom financial solutions. Through our Financial Services segment, we help customers create investment capacity to accelerate their transformations by helping them free up capital, capture value from older assets, achieve sustainability goals, invest in new technologies as-a-service, and weather financial volatility. FS is also an enabler of our consumption-based IT models by helping spread our upfront solution costs over the duration of the customer contract. Through Financial Services' Technology Renewal Centers, we are helping customers achieve their own sustainability goals by recovering over 3 million IT assets in fiscal 2021 and refurbishing more than 85% for reuse. Experienced leadership team. Our management team has an extensive track record of performance and execution. We are led by our President and Chief Executive Officer, Antonio Neri, who has proven experience in developing transformative business models, building global brands, and driving sustained growth and expansion in the technology industry. Mr. Neri's experience includes more than 25 years combined at HPE and Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP Co.") in various leadership positions. Our senior management team has many years of experience in our industry and possesses extensive knowledge of and experience in the enterprise IT business and the markets in which we compete. Sales, Marketing and Distribution We manage our business and report our financial results based on the segments described above. Our customers are organized by commercial and large enterprise groups, including business and public sector enterprises, and purchases of our products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by us or indirectly through a variety of partners, including: resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer groups; distribution partners that supply our solutions to resellers; original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products and services with their own products and services, and sell the integrated solution; independent software vendors that provide their clients with specialized software products and often assist us in selling our products and services to clients purchasing their products; systems integrators that provide expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions and often partner with us to extend their expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and typically partner with us on client solutions that require our unique products and services. The mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts accordingly. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our coverage, in addition to identifying efficiencies and productivity gains, in both our direct and indirect businesses. This has resulted in a combined go-to-market model, in which we have a direct sales presence in a number of countries, while we sell and deliver our products, solutions, and services through a channel-only model in the remaining countries. In those countries where we have a direct sales presence, we typically assign an account manager to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers as well as with large public sector accounts. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise. For other customers, our businesses collaborate to manage relationships with commercial resellers targeting smaller accounts, both in the commercial and public sector space. Manufacturing and Materials We utilize a significant number of outsourced and contract manufacturers around the world to manufacture products that we design. The use of outsourced and contract manufacturers is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for our products as well as create manufacturing flexibility in our supply chain and processes. In some circumstances, third-party OEMs produce products that we purchase and resell under our brand. In addition to our use of outsourced and contract manufacturers, we currently manufacture a limited number of finished products from components and subassemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. Historically, we have utilized two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing 7 Table of Conten t high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customer's particular hardware and software customization requirements. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing shortly before the sale or distribution of products to our customers. We purchase materials, supplies, and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such alternate sources of supply are readily available. However, we do rely on single-source suppliers for certain customized parts (although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations in the event of a disruption) and a disruption or loss of a single-source supplier could delay production of some products. In some instances, our single-source suppliers (e.g., Intel and AMD as suppliers of certain x86 processors) are also the single-source suppliers for the entire market; disruptions with these suppliers would result in industry-wide dislocations and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. Like other participants in the IT industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our demand requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources due to certain events taking place where our suppliers are geographically concentrated. When necessary, we are often able to obtain scarce components for somewhat higher prices on the open market, which may have an impact on our gross margin, but does not generally disrupt production. We also acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints, or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price, and availability of supply. See "Risk FactorsWe depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our supplier relationships properly" in Item 1A. As a result of the pandemic, worldwide demand for electronic components spiked in many different technology sectors, causing industry-wide shortages for many electronic components. While availability for many components are now recovering, some shortages are nevertheless anticipated to persist. HPE continues to rely on proactive inventory buffering measures in order to position ourselves well for availability of those components. We will take additional inventory actions as appropriate in alignment to the market demand, and will continue to leverage strong partnerships and long-term agreements with our suppliers. Backlog Backlog represents the price of orders related to current or prior periods for which work has not been performed or goods have not been delivered as of the reporting period. The global pandemic resulted in an unprecedented demand for electronic devices, which, coupled with related industry-wide supply constraints and inflationary pressures, has led to a challenging supply chain environment. Additionally, the lasting effects of the pandemic have continued to play a role with ongoing delays to the global logistics environment. During fiscal 2022, while the demand for our products remained strong, we continued to experience a shortage of certain key components, logistics timing issues, and a challenging global economic environment. At the same time, in the second half of fiscal 2022, certain supply chain challenges eased in part as a result of a softening demand environment for consumer electronic devices resulting in increased supply to enterprise markets. We exited fiscal 2022 with an elevated backlog as compared to the prior fiscal year-end. We expect the supply chain environment to continue to present challenges in the near term. During the pandemic, we have viewed backlog as an indication of demand health, as governments around the world imposed restrictions on non-essential work activities and travel. As and when the pandemic subsides (particularly in non-U.S. geographies in which we operate), our focus on backlog may again become less relevant as a reliable indicator of future demand. For a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and actions taken in response to the pandemic, see risks identified in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A. International Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis for our customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset geographic economic trends, and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. A summary of our domestic and international results is set forth in Note 2, "Segment Information", to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Approximately 67% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2022 came from sales outside the United States. 8 Table of Conten t For a discussion of certain risks attendant to our international operations, see "Risk FactorsDue to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes and the laws and regulatory regimes applying to international transactions or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition," and "Risk FactorsWe are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates" in Item 1A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk" in Item 7A of Part II and Note 13, "Financial Instruments", to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Research and Development Innovation is a key element of our culture and critical to our success. Our research and development efforts ("R&D") are focused on designing and developing products, services, and solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers' experiences. Expenditures for R&D we re $2.0 billion in fiscal 2022, $2.0 billion in fiscal 2021 and $1.9 billion in fiscal 2020. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products, services, and solutions to maintain and enhance our competitive position. Included in the R&D work currently taking place at the Company are the following initiatives: In Compute, we are developing high quality next-generation compute solutions (servers, server attached options, and software) that integrate the latest industry technology, which coupled with other innovations from HPE are aligned to the requirements of our customers. In the area of software-as-a-service, we are developing cloud-native, cloud-based server management solutions to complement our existing portfolio. In HPC & AI, we offer integrated systems comprised of software and hardware designed to address high-performance computing, AI, data analytics, and transaction processing workloads for government and commercial customers globally. Our R&D investments are focused on developing new technologies in high-performance networking, artificial intelligence platforms, scalable memory systems, and high-performance storage and data solutions that underpin our differentiated offerings. We also develop high-performance computing and artificial intelligence developer tools, cloud-native and scalable cluster management software, and transaction processing software. These R&D efforts are critical to our competitive advantage and enabled our successful delivery of the first exascale supercomputer in the world. HPC & AI also hosts an applied research group, Hewlett Packard Labs, where we invest in long-term technological advancements, including artificial intelligence software, advanced systems architectures, and photonics. We also collaborate with government and commercial research institutions and co-invest in many of these areas. The work of Hewlett Packard Labs contributes to a pipeline of technologies we consider for future commercialization, including quantum computing and its relation to high performance computing. All our products are being developed with the intention to be delivered in a consumption model, including integration into our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform. In the Storage and data management domains, we continue to evolve the portfolio to simplify data management and introduce new data protection capabilities for hybrid cloud environments. HPE is focused on helping customers accelerate their data-first modernization journey and embrace hybrid cloud. By leveraging the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform for unified cloud-based management, we have transformed the way customers consume and manage storage, while offering robust data protection solutions. We have built AI-driven self-service capabilities into our as-a-service offerings that include HPE GreenLake for Block Storage, an industry-first 100% data availability guarantee for mission critical applications; HPE GreenLake for HCI, a cloud native storage and virtual machine management platform; and cloud data protection. HPE continues to power the edge-to-core-to-cloud data pipeline with embedded AI that delivers deep learning analytics across the full data lifecycle. In Intelligent Edge, we are investing in our cloud native Edge Services Platform ("ESP"), which enables simplified operation of wired and wireless networks, together with software defined wide area network ("SD-WAN") connectivity. The ESP platform complements a broad range of network devices in our unified network infrastructure layer with security capabilities that enable us to identify and authenticate users and IoT endpoints, to enforce policy, and finely segment traffic based on context to contain security threats. We are also investing in automation, machine learning and artificial intelligence-based network operations to optimize user experience and improve operator efficiency. Many of these capabilities are enabled with the Aruba Central cloud service, and we are investing to further integrate Aruba Central into our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform. In Hewlett Packard Labs, in addition to the aforementioned HPC & AI-related work, we are focused on disruptive innovation and applied research in collaboration with other HPE business groups to deliver differentiated intellectual property ("IP"). Our innovation agenda is focused on developing technologies in the areas of system architecture, networking, AI, 9 Table of Conten t accelerators, quantum computing, silicon photonics, and sustainability. We also continue to invest in our silicon design capability to accelerate the development and delivery of our technology. For a discussion of risks attendant to our R&D activities, see "Risk FactorsIf we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services, and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer" in Item 1A. Patents Our general policy is to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. As of October 31, 2022, our worldwide patent portfolio included approximately 13,000 issued and pending patents. Patents generally have a term of up to 20 years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to our company as a whole or to any of our business segments. In addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses and other rights under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. For a discussion of risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "Risk FactorsOur financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend" and "Our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties" in Item 1A. Seasonality From time to time, the markets in which we sell our products, services, and solutions experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months. However, the pandemic resulted in a temporary disruption to the seasonal fluctuation of our business. See "Risk FactorsOur uneven sales cycle and supply chain disruptions make planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable" in Item 1A. Competition We have a broad technology portfolio of enterprise IT infrastructure products, solutions, and services which includes our as-a-service offerings. We encounter strong competition in all areas of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our IT infrastructure offerings. The markets in which we compete are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. Most product life cycles are relatively short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, continuously enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above, among others. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture, and market their products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships is critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. The competitive environments in which our segments operate are described below: Compute and Storage businesses operate in the highly competitive enterprise data center infrastructure market, which is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. Our primary competitors are technology vendors, such as Dell Technologies Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Lenovo Group Ltd., International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), and NetApp Inc. In certain regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically branded or "white-box" manufacturers. Our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services, and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software, and services capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. 10 Table of Conten t HPC & AI predominantly operates in the market for data-intensive super-computing, analytics, and artificial intelligence. Our primary competitors are compute technology vendors that can design and build solutions that deliver performance scalability and connectivity necessary to handle super-compute and AI workloads, including Dell Technologies Inc., Lenovo Group Ltd., IBM, Fujitsu Network Communications, Inc., and Atos Information Technology Incorporated. Similar to the compute space, our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services, and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software, and services capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our deep expertise and capabilities designing and delivering these solutions, broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. Intelligent Edge operates in the highly competitive networking and connectivity infrastructure market, which is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. Our primary competitors are technology vendors, such as Cisco Systems, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., and Arista Networks Inc. Our strategy is to deliver superior enterprise wired and wireless local-area networking components and software, high-value technology support services, and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software, and services capabilities. Our competitive advantage includes our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. Financial Services. In our financing business, our primary competitors are captive financing companies, such as IBM Global Financing, Dell Financial Services, and Cisco Capital, as well as banks and other financial institutions. Our primary IT Asset Disposition ("ITAD") competitors are ERI, Ingram Micro, Sage Sustainable Electronics, and Sims Recycling Solutions. We believe our competitive advantage over banks, other financial institutions, and ITAD providers is our ability to bring together our investment solutions with our expertise in managing technology assets. Not only are we able to deliver investment solutions that help customers create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs, but we also help them extract value from existing IT investments while more efficiently managing the retirement of those assets. All of these solutions can help customers accelerate digital transformation, create new budget streams, and meet Circular Economy objectives. For a discussion of certain risks attendant to these competitive environments, see "Risk FactorsWe operate in an intensely competitive industry, and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance" in Item 1A. Environmental Sustainability Living Progress - Living Progress is our business strategy for creating sustainable IT solutions that meet the technology demands of the future, while advancing the way people live and work. This strategy underpins our commitment to the environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") factors most important to stakeholders. Our edge-to-cloud strategy helps our customers transform and digitize their business while reducing the environmental footprint of HPE and our customers. A legacy of ESG leadership increases our competitiveness and differentiates us in the marketplace by helping our customers achieve not only their business objectives, but also their sustainability goals. The HPE Board of Directors and all of its committees provide oversight of our ESG strategy, risks, practices, policies, and disclosures, to ensure integration with our core business strategy. Sustainable Value Creation - Sustainability performance is a core business discipline within HPE. Our Living Progress strategy and sustainability programs are key to our lasting relationships with our customers, and our sustainability credentials provide us with a competitive advantage in the market, support talent acquisition and retention, and ensure ongoing access to global markets. In 2022, we enhanced our climate ambitions and committed to becoming a net-zero enterprise by 2040, with intermediate targets set across our value chain for 2030. These climate targets are approved by the Science Based Target initiative and align with the latest climate science. In 2022, the majority of our greenhouse gas emissions ("GHG") resulted from our customers' use of our products and solutions. We recognize the opportunity to innovate technologies for a carbon-constrained world and are committed to delivering products and services that empower our customers to operate sustainably and efficiently while also gaining maximum productivity from their IT investments and reducing costs. For instance, as-a-service delivery models can drive the reduction of our climate impact and that of our customers, by eliminating IT inefficiencies and enabling sustainable digital transformations. Our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform allows customers to consume IT resources and spend capital expenditures as needed, thereby reducing the energy and resource consumption of IT infrastructure through improved utilization and provisioning. To ensure market access across the globe and aid customers in selecting more sustainable IT solutions, many of our products are certified by eco-labels such as Electronic Product Environment Assessment Tool, TCO Certified, Energy STAR, China SEPA and the China Energy Conservation Program, thus helping our customers make responsible purchasing choices. 11 Table of Conten t Supply Chain Responsibility and Human Rights We manage our supply chain to help reduce risk, improve product quality, achieve environmental and social goals, and improve overall performance and value creation for our customers, partners and suppliers. Building upon the successful launch of our supply chain data management software, we have begun sharing supplier-facing GHG emissions management tools that provide company-specific emissions data, the ability to track progress toward their publicly stated emissions reduction goals, and the ability to view their own performance against that of their peers. We also work directly with our suppliers to help them implement renewable energy projects at their manufacturing locations. Our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion extends beyond our workforce and to our suppliers, as well. We believe a diverse supply chain and equity in sourcing not only creates opportunities for underrepresented and underserved communities, but also contributes to the resiliency of our supply chain and of our communities. Human rights principles are embedded in how we do business, and we are committed to holding our entire value chain to high ethical standards that respect such principles. We have processes in place to enable the early detection of forced labor and have implemented due diligence procedures to monitor and help prevent human rights violations or abuses at our suppliers and in our operations. Additionally, through our Responsible Minerals Program, we work to advance the responsible sourcing of minerals used in our products and within our supply chain. While the HPE Board of Directors and all of its committees take an integrated, rather than siloed, approach to providing oversight of ESG matters, including environmental sustainability, supply chain responsibility, and human rights, our Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee is primarily responsible for oversight of our broader ESG strategy, initiatives, risks, policies, and disclosures. Material Government Regulations Our business activities are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and our products and services are governed by a number of rules and regulations. Costs and accruals incurred to comply with these governmental regulations are presently not material to our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future government laws applicable to our operations, services or products will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position, we do not currently anticipate material expenditures for government regulations. Nonetheless, as discussed below, we believe that global trade and certain environmental regulations could potentially materially impact our business. Environment Our products and operations are, or may in the future be, subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations concerning the environment, including, among others, laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water; the management, movement, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites; product safety, such as chemical composition, packaging and labeling; energy consumption of our products and services; and the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances. We proactively evaluate, and at times replace materials in our products and supply chain, taking into account, among other things, published lists of substances of concern, new and upcoming legal requirements, customer preferences and scientific analysis that indicates a potential impact to human health or the environment. We are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including servers and networking equipment, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). We are also subject to standards set by public and private entities related to sustainability issues such as energy consumption, carbon emissions, reusing or recycling. Finally, as climate change and other environmental-related laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. In the event our products are impacted by these laws or standards, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions or from being procured by certain governments or private companies, and we could face other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that our technology can be used to address climate change and other environmental-related issues, and to facilitate compliance with related laws, regulations and treaties. We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental and environmental-related laws applicable to our operations, products and services, and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. We support this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy; a strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide 12 Table of Conten t environmental programs and services; an extensive supply chain responsibility program; and an approach to ethical standards and strong governance that are the foundations of our business. Global Trade As a global company, the import and export of our products and services are subject to laws and regulations including international treaties, U.S. export controls and sanctions laws, customs regulations, and local trade rules around the world. Such laws, rules and regulations may delay the introduction of some of our products or impact our competitiveness through restricting our ability to do business in certain places or with certain entities and individuals, or the need to comply with domestic preference programs, laws concerning transfer and disclosure of sensitive or controlled technology or source code, unique technical standards, localization mandates, and duplicative in-country testing and inspection requirements. The consequences of any failure to comply with domestic and foreign trade regulations could limit our ability to conduct business globally. We continue to support open trade policies that recognize the importance of integrated cross-border supply chains that will continue to contribute to the growth of the global economy and measures that standardize compliance for manufacturers to ensure that products comply with safety and security requirements. For a discussion of the risks associated with government regulations that may materially impact us, see "Regulatory Risks" within "Risk Factors" in Item 1A. Additional Information Itanium is a trademark of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries. Information about our Executive Officers The following are our current executive officers: Name Age Position Antonio Neri 55 President and Chief Executive Officer Tarek Robbiati 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer John F. Schultz 58 Executive Vice President, Chief Operating and Legal Officer Alan May 64 Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer Irving H. Rothman 76 President and Chief Executive Officer, HPE Financial Services Thomas E. Black Jr. 53 Executive Vice President, General Manager of Storage Justin Hotard 48 Executive Vice President, General Manager of HPC & AI Neil B. MacDonald 54 Executive Vice President, General Manager of Compute Philip J. Mottram 54 Executive Vice President, General Manager of Intelligent Edge Jeremy K. Cox 45 Senior Vice President, Controller, Chief Tax Officer and Principal Accounting Officer Kirt P. Karros 53 Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations Antonio Neri; President and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Neri has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since June 2017 and February 2018, respectively. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of our Enterprise Group from November 2015 to June 2017. Prior to that, Mr. Neri served in a similar role for HP Co.'s Enterprise Group from October 2014 to November 2015. Mr. Neri served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Servers business unit from September 2013 to October 2014 and concurrently as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Networking business unit from May 2014 to October 2014. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Technology Services business unit from August 2011 to September 2013 and as Vice President, Customer Services for the HP Personal Systems Group from 2007 to August 2011, having first joined HP Co. in 1996. Since December 2017, Mr. Neri has served as a director of Elevance Health, Inc. (formerly Anthem, Inc.), a health insurance provider in the U.S. From March 2012 to February 2013, he served as a director of MphasiS Limited, an India-based technology company. Tarek Robbiati; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Robbiati has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since September 2018. Before joining Hewlett Packard Enterprise, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Sprint Corporation from August 2015 to February 2018 where he was responsible for all finance functions as well as mergers and acquisitions and business development. Mr. Robbiati previously served as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of FlexiGroup Limited in Australia from January 2013 to August 2015. Prior to that, from December 2009 to December 2012, he was Group Managing Director and President of Telstra 13 Table of Conten t International Group in Hong Kong and Executive Chairman of Hong Kong CSL Limited ("CSL"), a subsidiary of Telstra Corporation Limited. From July 2007 to May 2010, he served as the Chief Executive Officer of CSL in Hong Kong. Earlier in his career, he served as EVP & Head of Corporate Finance for Orange Plc and also held leadership positions at global credit insurer Atradius, investment bank Lehman Brothers and the global consultancy Arthur Andersen (now Accenture). John F. Schultz; Executive Vice President, Chief Operating and Legal Officer Mr. Schultz has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Operating and Legal Officer since July 2020. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Administrative Officer and Secretary from December 2017 to July 2020. Mr. Schultz previously served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from November 2015 to December 2017, performing a similar role at HP Co. from April 2012 to November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Schultz served as Deputy General Counsel for Litigation, Investigations and Global Functions at HP Co. from September 2008 to April 2012. Before joining HP Co., Mr. Schultz was a partner in the litigation practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, a law firm, from March 2005 to September 2008, where, among other clients, he supported HP Co. as external counsel on a variety of litigation and regulatory matters. Alan May; Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer Mr. May has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer since June 2015. At Hewlett Packard Enterprise, he leads a global HR function, driving business growth and transformation through employee engagement; diversity, equity and inclusion; talent management; rewards; and culture development. Before joining Hewlett Packard Enterprise, he served as Vice President, Human Resources at Boeing Commercial Aircraft, a division of The Boeing Company, from April 2013 to June 2015. Prior to that, Mr. May served as Vice President, Human Resources for Boeing Defense, Space and Security at Boeing from June 2010 to April 2013 and as Vice President, Compensation, Benefits and Strategy at Boeing from August 2007 to June 2010. Mr. May has also held senior human resources roles at Cerberus Capital Management and PepsiCo. He serves on the Board of Governors for the San Francisco Symphony. Irving H. Rothman; President and Chief Executive Officer, HPE Financial Services Mr. Rothman has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of our Financial Services business segment, our IT investment and financing subsidiary, since November 2015. Prior to that, he served in a similar role at HP Co. from May 2002 to November 2015. Prior to joining HP Co., Mr. Rothman was President and Chief Executive Officer of Compaq Financial Services Corporation from January 1997 to April 2002. Thomas E. Black Jr.; Executive Vice President, General Manager of Storage Mr. Black has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of our Storage business segment since March 2022 and as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the same business segment from December 2019 to March 2022. Prior to that, Mr. Black served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Switching within our Intelligent Edge business segment from October 2018 to December 2019. From January 2016 to October 2018, Mr. Black served as the Vice President and General Manager of Switching within our Intelligent Edge business. From June 2013 to January 2016, Mr. Black was the Vice President of Engineering for the Networking group at HP Co., and later, at HPE. Prior to that, Mr. Black served in various roles, including Vice President of Engineering and other engineering positions at Cisco Systems from November 1999 to May 2013. Justin Hotard; Executive Vice President, General Manager of HPC & AI Mr. Hotard has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of our HPC & AI global business group, including Hewlett Packard Enterprise Labs, our applied research group, since March 2022 and Senior Vice President and General Manager of the same group from March 2021 to March 2022. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Transformation from September 2020 to March 2021, where he led our transformation efforts to accelerate our pivot to as-a-service offerings. Prior to that, Mr. Hotard served as President and Managing Director of HPE Japan from October 2019 to September 2020, as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Compute Global Business Unit from January 2017 to October 2019 and as Vice President of Strategy, Planning and Operations in the Data Center Infrastructure Group from August 2015 to January 2017. Before joining Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Mr. Hotard was President of NCR Small Business from July 2013 to November 2014 and Vice President of Corporate Development of NCR Corporation from July 2012 to July 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Hotard served in various corporate development and operational roles at Symbol Technologies and Motorola, Inc. Neil B. MacDonald; Executive Vice President, General Manager of Compute Mr. MacDonald has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of our Compute business since March 2022 and as Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Compute business from February 2020 to March 2022. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Compute Solutions group of the then Hybrid IT business 14 Table of Conten t segment, from November 2018 to February 2020. Mr. MacDonald previously served as Vice President and General Manager of BladeSystem from August 2015 to October 2018, having first joined HP Co. in 1996. Philip J. Mottram; Executive Vice President, General Manager of Intelligent Edge Mr. Mottram has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of our Intelligent Edge business since March 2022. Previously, he served as the President of our Intelligent Edge business from June 2021 to March 2022. Prior to that, Mr. Mottram served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Communications Technology Group from April 2019 to June 2021. Before joining Hewlett Packard Enterprise, he served as the Chief Revenue Officer of Zayo Group, a communications infrastructure provider, from November 2017 to February 2019, where he was responsible for all customer-facing functions. Prior to that, Mr. Mottram served as Director of the Enterprise Business Unit of Vodafone from May 2014 to November 2017, the Chief Executive Officer of Hong Kong CSL from September 2012 to May 2014, and Executive Director of Global Sales at Telstra International from September 2010 to September 2012, as well as a variety of different operational roles at other telecommunications companies. Jeremy K. Cox; Senior Vice President, Controller, Chief Tax Officer and Principal Account Officer Mr. Cox has served as our Senior Vice President, Controller, Chief Tax Officer and Principal Accounting Officer since July 2022. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President, Global Tax and Head of Products and Services Finance from May 2021 to July 2022. Prior to that, Mr. Cox served as Senior Vice President, Global Tax, Financial Planning and Analysis, and Global Functions Finance from November 2018 to May 2021, Senior Vice President, Global Tax and Internal Audit from September 2017 to November 2018, Senior Vice President, Global Tax from September 2012 to September 2017 and Vice President and Senior Tax Counsel of HP Tax Research and Planning and APJ Taxes from 2008 to 2012. Prior to joining HP Inc. in 2008, Mr. Cox was Senior Tax Counsel for Electronic Data Systems. Kirt P. Karros; Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations Mr. Karros has served as our Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations since May 2022. Previously, he served as our Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer from November 2015 to May 2022. Prior to that, Mr. Karros served in a similar role at HP Co., leading its Treasury and Investor Relations from May 2015 to October 2015. He also has served as the Executive Chairman of H3C Technologies since August 2022. Mr. Karros previously served as a director of InnerWorkings, Inc. from August 2019 to October 2020, as a director of PMC-Sierra, a semiconductor company, from August 2013 to May 2015, and as Principal and Managing Director of Research for Relational Investors LLC, an investment fund, from 2001 to May 2015. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://investors.hpe.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors' committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Finance and Investment Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, Technology Committee, and Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee) and code of ethics entitled "Standards of Business Conduct" are also available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free printed copies of these documents from: Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company Attention: Investor Relations 1701 East Mossy Oaks Road, Spring, Texas 77389 http://investors.hpe.com/financial/requested-printed-reports Table of Conten t ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Business and Operational Risks We are unable to predict the extent to which the ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic, or other outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises may adversely impact our business operations, financial performance and results of operations. For the past two years, the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to control its spread have significantly curtailed the movement of people, goods and services worldwide, including in most or all of the regions in which we sell our products and services and conduct our business operations. The pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to or at a later time result in, a global slowdown of economic activity, including travel restrictions, prohibitions of non-essential activities in some cases, disruption and shutdown of businesses and greater uncertainty in global financial markets. Our operations have been affected by a range of external factors related to the COVID-19 pandemic that are not within our control, including the various restrictions imposed by cities, counties, states and countries on our employees, customers, partners and suppliers designed to limit the spread of COVID-19. Although the immediate impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic have been assessed and mitigated, the ultimate extent of the impact of the pandemic, including as a result of possible subsequent outbreaks of COVID-19 or of new variants thereof and measures taken in response thereto, will depend on future developments, which remain highly uncertain and cannot currently be predicted. Based on employee vaccination rates and public health guidance, we have begun a return to most HPE offices on a hybrid basis for most employees, adhering to any government requirements in effect locally. We continue to monitor the situation, including cases within our workforce, and will take action to adjust office attendance policies as circumstances warrant in order to protect the health and safety of employees, contractors, and others who visit our sites. Vaccination requirements or other risk mitigation strategies for site entry and other activities remain in effect in many countries where it is legally permissible to implement such a requirement(s), though discretion to implement such policies has been returned to local executive leadership. The pandemic and its uneven recovery have adversely affected, continue to adversely affect, and we expect may continue to adversely affect, our business, in a variety of ways, including by restricting our operations and sales, marketing and distribution efforts; and disrupting the supply chains of hardware products. In addition, as the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the operations of our customers, partners, and suppliers, there have been, and there may continue to be, delays of hardware product shipments from our vendors and out of our manufacturing and logistics operations worldwide as a result of capacity issues. While capacity shortages are beginning to show signs of recovery, they may nevertheless persist, adversely disrupting our business. Additionally, concerns over the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic have caused extreme volatility in financial and other capital markets, which has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our stock price, our ability to access capital markets, and our ability to fund liquidity needs. Outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises may in the future adversely affect, among other things, demand for our products and services; our operations and sales, marketing, and distribution efforts; the supply chains of hardware products and components; our research and development capabilities; our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes; and other important business activities. Outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises may also result in our restriction or suspension of international and/or domestic travel, prohibitions of non-essential activities in some cases, and limit our in-person activities within HPE and with customers. Such outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises may also present operational challenges, such as unanticipated disruptions in services provided through our localized physical infrastructure, which can in turn curtail the functioning of critical components of our IT systems, and adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders, provide services, respond to customer requests and maintain our worldwide business operations. The negative impacts of the global COVID-19 pandemic or other outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises on the broader global economy and related impacts on our or our customers business operations and demand for our products and services will depend on future developments and actions taken in response to such events, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Additional impacts and risks that we are not currently aware of may arise. We are similarly unable to predict the full extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or other outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises on our customers, partners, and suppliers. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic or other outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. 16 Table of Conten t Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations and supply chain could be disrupted by natural or human-induced disasters including, but not limited to, earthquakes; tsunamis; floods; hurricanes, cyclones or typhoons; fires; other extreme weather conditions; power or water shortages; telecommunications failures; materials scarcity and price volatility; terrorist acts, civil unrest, conflicts or wars; and medical epidemics or pandemics. The impacts and frequency of any of the above could furthermore be exacerbated by climate change, particularly in countries where we operate that have limited infrastructure and disaster recovery resources. We are predominantly self-insured to mitigate the impact of most catastrophic events. Although it is impossible to completely predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, forecasting disruptive events and building additional resiliency into our operations accordingly will become an increasing business imperative. The occurrence of business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain, result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Climate change serves as a risk multiplier increasing both the frequency and severity of natural disasters that may affect our worldwide business operations. Our corporate headquarters is located in Spring, Texas, which suffers from floods, hurricanes, and other extreme weather, and a portion of our research and development activities are located in California, which suffers from drought conditions and catastrophic wildfires, each affecting the health and safety of our employees. In California, to mitigate wildfire risk, electric utilities have been periodically deploying public safety power shutoffs, which affects electricity reliability to our facilities and our communities. In 2017, our principal worldwide IT data centers in Houston were flooded due to Hurricane Harvey. Since then, HPE has increased its resiliency through site selection and infrastructure technological investments to mitigate and adapt to physical risks from climate change. While we seek to mitigate our business risks associated with climate change through such efforts, we may be unsuccessful in doing so as there are inherent climate-related risks wherever business is conducted. Furthermore, climate change may reduce the availability or increase the cost of insurance for these negative impacts of natural disasters by contributing to an increase in the incidence and severity of such natural disasters. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the United States, Puerto Rico, Czech Republic, Mexico, China, Malaysia, Taiwan, and Singapore. We also rely on major logistics hubs, which are strategically located near manufacturing facilities in the major regions and in proximity to HPE's distribution channels and customers. Our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, IT system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory, or political issues. Other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near vulnerable locations is continuing to be assessed. Our transition to a software consumption-based business model may adversely affect our business, operating results and free cash flow. We are currently transitioning to an as-a-service company, providing our entire portfolio through a range of software consumption-based, pay-per-use and as-a-service offerings. We will also continue to provide our hardware and software in a capital expenditure and license-based model, ultimately giving our customers choices in consuming HPE products and services in a traditional or as-a-service offering. Such business model changes entail significant risks and uncertainties, and we may be unable to complete the transition to a software consumption-based business model or manage the transition successfully and in a timely manner, and our ability to accurately forecast our future operating results may be adversely affected. Additionally, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the software consumption transition, even if we successfully complete the transition. The transition to a software consumption-based business model also means that our historical results, especially those achieved before we began the transition, may not be indicative of our future results. Further, as customer demand for our software consumption-based business model offerings increases, we will experience differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized at the time of delivery) and our as-a-service offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement). In addition, the transition to an as-a-service company is expected to require incremental capital requirements, resulting in a negative impact to cash flows in the near term, and may require us to dedicate additional resources, including sales and marketing costs. Furthermore, we anticipate needing to continually adapt our go-to-market structure, to better align with the software consumption-based business model. We must adapt our sales processes for new sales and marketing approaches, including those required by our shift to software consumption-based services and other changes resulting from the pandemic. Changing our go-to-market structure may affect employee compensation models and ultimately our ability to retain employees. 17 Table of Conten t There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these adjustments in a timely or cost-effective manner, or that we will be able to realize all or any of the expected benefits from such adjustments. Further, our software consumption offerings could subject us to increased risk of liability related to the provision of services as well as operational, technical, legal or other costs. We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our supplier relationships properly. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' abilities to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. Given the wide variety of solutions that we offer, the large and diverse distribution of our suppliers and contract manufacturers, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain solutions, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. In addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. Furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. Other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, and contractual, relational and labor risks, each of which is described below. Component shortages. We have been and are currently experiencing delays and shortages of certain components as a result of strong demand and capacity constraints due to economic changes resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, and other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. As shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components has increased, and we may be exposed to quality issues and delivery delays. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. Accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. Excess supply. In order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into long term agreements, non-cancelable commitments, or other inventory management arrangements with vendors. In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Contractual terms. As a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. If we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. Any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Contingent workers. We also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. We have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. Our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. Single-source suppliers. We obtain certain components from single-source suppliers due to technology, availability, price, quality, scale or customization needs. Replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may initially be unable to meet demand or be subject to other output limitations. For some components, such as customized components, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. The performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity, and price of our components. The loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. 18 Table of Conten t While our restructuring plans are substantially complete, their implementation periods are ongoing, and it is possible that we may not achieve all of the expected benefits of such restructuring plans. We have announced and have been implementing, restructuring plans, including the HPE Next initiative (whereby we are simplifying our operating model and streamlining our offerings, business processes and business systems) and the cost optimization and prioritization plan, in order to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs, as well as simplify our organizational structure, upgrade our IT infrastructure and redesign business processes. While our restructuring plans are substantially complete, their implementation periods are ongoing, and it is possible that we may not be able to maintain all the cost savings and benefits that were attained in connection with our restructurings. Additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. If we fail to sustain all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For more information about our restructuring plans, the HPE Next initiative and the cost optimization and prioritization plan, see Note 3, "Transformation Programs", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions and subsequent integrations, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. As part of our strategy, we may acquire businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures, and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"), and also handle any post-closing issues, such as integration. For example, in September 2020, we acquired Silver Peak Systems, Inc., an SD-WAN industry leader and in September 2019, we acquired Cray Inc., a global supercomputer leader. In April 2017 and September 2017, we spun off our Enterprise Services and Software businesses, respectively. See also the risk factors below under the heading "Risks Related to Prior Separations." Risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our financial results, including our effective tax rate: We may not successfully combine product or service offerings or fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, which may result in (1) failure to retain employees, customers, distributors, and suppliers; (2) increase in unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations which may cause financial results to differ from expectations; and (3) significant increase in costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. We may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies or all of the factors necessary to estimate reasonably accurate costs, timing and other matters. In order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders or we may enter into financing arrangements, which could affect our liquidity and financial condition. For an acquisition or other combination, the acquisition partner may have differing or inadequate cybersecurity and data protection controls, which could impact our exposure to data security incidents and potentially increase anticipated costs or time to integrate the business. Business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. For a divestiture, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. The impact of divestitures on our revenue growth may be larger than projected, as we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected. If we do not satisfy pre-closing conditions and necessary regulatory and governmental 19 Table of Conten t approvals on acceptable terms, it may prevent us from completing the transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult or discourage an acquisition of Hewlett Packard Enterprise if our Board of Directors deems it to be undesirable. Provisions such as indemnification, meeting requirements, and blank check stock authorizations could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests, or changes in control or management of Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Management's attention or other resources may be diverted during business combination and investment transactions and further impacted if we fail to successfully complete or integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives. System security risks, data protection incidents, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or IT services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. As a leading technology firm, we are exposed to attacks from criminals, nation state actors and activist hackers (collectively, "malicious parties") who have been able to circumvent or bypass our cyber security measures. Although some of these attacks have caused disruptions or exposure of information, so far, these attacks have not resulted in material losses to HPE, nor have any of HPE's consumers, customers, or employees informed HPE that these attacks resulted in material harm to them. It is possible that future attacks may result in material misappropriation, system disruptions or shutdowns, malicious alteration, or destruction of our confidential or personal information or that of third parties. Malicious parties also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, including within our cloud-based environments and offerings. Malicious parties may compromise our manufacturing supply chain and the systems or networks of other third parties on whom we rely, and as such, may embed malicious software or hardware in our products for use in compromising our customers. Geopolitical tensions or conflicts, such as the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, may create a heightened risk of such cyberattacks or exacerbate system vulnerabilities, especially in light of our hybrid work environment. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs, and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. In addition, our business may process, store and transmit customer data, including commercially sensitive and personal data, subject to the European General Data Protection Regulation, the California Consumer Privacy Act, the California Privacy Rights Act, and other privacy laws. With our business increasingly providing as-a-service offerings, malicious parties could target such services, potentially resulting in an increased risk of compromise of customer data and regulatory exposure. Incidents involving our cyber or physical security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information, sensitive, confidential, or personal data about us, our clients, or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in regulatory fines, litigation, and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. We also could lose existing or potential customers of services or other IT solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of managing an incident and implementing further data protection measures could be significant. Portions of our IT infrastructure also have experienced, and may experience, interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. Furthermore, our data centers depend on predictable and reliable energy and networking capabilities, the cost or availability of which could be adversely affected or disrupted by a variety of factors, including but not limited to the effects of climate change. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins, or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our stock price. 20 Table of Conten t If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services, and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer. Our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our portfolio of hardware, software and services as we deliver global edge-to-cloud platform as-a-service to help customers accelerate outcomes by unlocking value from all of their data, everywhere. HPE delivers unique, open and intelligent technology solutions, including those utilizing machine learning and artificial intelligence capabilities, with a consistent experience across all clouds and edge computing platforms. To successfully execute this strategy, we must address business model shifts and optimize go-to-market execution by improving cost structure, aligning sales coverage with strategic goals, improving channel execution and strengthening our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, while continuing to pursue new product innovation that builds on our strategic capabilities in areas such as cloud and data center computing, software-defined networking, converged storage, high-performance compute, and wireless networking. Any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The process of developing and improving an edge-to-cloud platform as-a-service solution and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services, and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. For example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as-a-service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain and protect appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services, and solutions. Should such efforts fail to produce actionable insights or our products not perform as promised, our business results may be adversely affected. Any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. Our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. Having developed an edge-to-cloud platform product in HPE GreenLake, we must be able to continue to scale quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. Our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform faces competition from peer companies with their own cloud platform offerings, and to succeed, we will need to compete effectively across numerous factors. Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution, including new features of the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, could result in our offerings being late to reach the market, which could further harm our competitive position. If we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer . In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services, and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. In order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. However, the products, services, and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. If we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which could delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows, and profitability. In addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. Addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. If new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. Issues in the development and use of artificial intelligence may result in reputational harm or liability. We currently incorporate AI capabilities into certain of our offerings, and our research into and continued development of such capabilities remain ongoing. As with many innovations, AI presents risks, challenges, and unintended consequences that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. AI algorithms may be flawed. Datasets may be insufficient or contain 21 Table of Conten t biased information. Ineffective or inadequate AI development or deployment practices by us or others could result in incidents that impair the acceptance of AI solutions or cause harm to individuals or society. These deficiencies and other failures of AI systems could subject us to competitive harm, regulatory action, legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. Some AI scenarios present ethical issues, and while we aim to use AI ethically and attempt to predict and anticipate ethical issues presented by its use, we may be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving issues before they arise. If we enable or offer AI solutions that are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social, economic, or political issues, we may experience brand or reputational harm. If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including both direct and indirect (distributors and resellers) sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement. Moreover, some of our wholesale distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation, and market trends. Many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution channel partners. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. We must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. Distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. We also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop, and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop, and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing, and IT support positions. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. Certain equity-based incentive awards for certain executives contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. If the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As competition for highly skilled employees in our industry has grown increasingly intense, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, higher than anticipated levels of employee attrition. These risks to attracting and retaining the necessary talent may be exacerbated by recent labor constraints and inflationary pressures on employee wages and benefits. 22 Table of Conten t Failure to meet ESG expectations or standards or achieve our ESG goals could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, or stock price. There has been an increased focus from regulators and stakeholders on ESG matters, including greenhouse gas emissions and climate-related risks; diversity, equity, and inclusion; responsible sourcing and supply chain; human rights and social responsibility; and corporate governance and oversight. Given our commitment to ESG, we actively manage these issues and have established and publicly announced certain goals, commitments, and targets which we may refine or even expand further in the future. These goals, commitments, and targets reflect our current plans and aspirations and are not guarantees that we will be able to achieve them. Evolving stakeholder expectations and our efforts and ability to manage these issues, provide updates on them, and accomplish our goals, commitments, and targets present numerous operational, regulatory, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks, any of which may be outside of our control or could have a material adverse impact on our business, including on our reputation and stock price. Further, there is uncertainty around the accounting standards and climate-related disclosures associated with emerging laws and reporting requirements and the related costs to comply with the emerging regulations. Our failure or perceived failure to achieve our ESG goals, maintain ESG practices, or comply with emerging ESG regulations that meet evolving regulatory or stakeholder expectations could harm our reputation, adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers and talent, and expose us to increased scrutiny from the investment community and enforcement authorities. Our reputation also may be harmed by the perceptions that our stakeholders have about our action or inaction on ESG-related issues. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our products and services and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and could also reduce our stock price. Industry Risks We operate in an intensely competitive industry, and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, product range and ease of use, account relationships, customer training, service and support, and security of our offerings. If our products, services, support, and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. We have a large portfolio of products and services and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products and services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product or service lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical, and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products and services. Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. Companies with whom we have vertical relationships in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. In addition, companies with whom we have vertical relationships also may acquire or form relationships with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with vertical partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face aggressive price competition and may continue to do so. As a consequence of inflation and higher supply chain and manufacturing costs, we have been increasing the prices of many of our products and services to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products and services, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product 23 Table of Conten t decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. For example, our Storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards software defined and public cloud, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. Financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. International Risks Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes and the laws and regulatory regimes applying to international transactions or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. Our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services, and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to manage inventory and make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows, and expenses. Economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. Any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. Poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. Interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, and costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. For example, in response to increasing inflation, the U.S. Federal Reserve, along with central banks around the world, have been raising interest rates and signaled expectations of additional rate increases. It is difficult to predict the impact of such events on us, our third-party partners or customers or economic markets more broadly, which have been and will continue to be highly dependent upon the actions of governments and businesses in response to macroeconomic events, and the effectiveness of those actions. Such actions may impact our ability, desire, or the timing of seeking funding for various investment opportunities. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Further, ongoing U.S. federal government spending priorities may limit demand for our products, services, and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the U.S. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the United States, which could further reduce demand for our products, services, and solutions. Our business and financial performance also could be adversely affected by changes in U.S. trade policy, U.S. export controls and sanctions, and U.S. regulations concerning imports, as well as international laws and regulations relating to global trade. Current U.S. government trade policy includes the imposition of tariffs on certain foreign goods, including information and communication technology products. These measures have materially increased costs for certain goods imported into the United States. This in turn could require us to materially increase prices to our customers which may reduce demand, or, if we are unable to increase prices, result in lowering our margin on products sold. U.S. government trade policy has resulted in, and could result in more, U.S. trading partners adopting responsive trade policy making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. Similarly, changes in regulations relating to exports could prevent us from exporting products to certain locations or customers entirely. In addition, changes in requirements relating to making foreign direct investments could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions. Sales outside the United States constituted approximately 67% of our net revenue in fiscal 2022. Our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, including uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and the relationship between China and the U.S.; inflationary pressures, such as those the market is currently experiencing, which may increase costs for materials, supplies, and services; adverse or uncertain macroeconomic conditions, including fears of a global economic downturn or recession; 24 Table of Conten t network security, privacy, and data sovereignty concerns, which could make foreign customers reluctant to purchase products and services from U.S.-based technology companies; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and OEMs, or changes to immigration and labor law policies which may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent; managing our geographically dispersed workforce; differing technology standards or customer requirements; local content and manufacturing requirements, which could impact our ability to sell into those markets; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings in restricted countries, and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. The factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States. For example, we rely on suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture. The ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine has impacted business and financial performance in that region. HPE is proceeding with an exit of our remaining business in Russia and Belarus, while closely monitoring and analyzing the trade restrictions imposed against Russia and Belarus by the United States, the European Union (the EU), and several other jurisdictions to ensure HPEs compliance with applicable laws. We cannot provide any assurance that such exit will be efficient or uninterrupted, which may negatively impact our operational expenses due to increased relocation costs or impact service delivery in such geographies. We implement policies, procedures, and training designed to facilitate compliance with anti-corruption laws around the world, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. But in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, people may engage in business practices prohibited by anti-corruption laws. Our employees and third parties we work with may take actions in violation of our policies, and those actions could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro, the Japanese yen and British pound can have an impact on our results as expressed in U.S. dollars. Currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. From time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. The effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. We may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. In addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. Intellectual Property Risks Our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license, or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other intellectual property laws in the United States, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers, and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide, or otherwise use in our operations. However, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed, or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. 25 Table of Conten t Our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties. Much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. For example, many of our software offerings are developed using software components or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including through both proprietary and open source licenses. These third-party software components may become obsolete, defective, or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. We may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. In order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party software components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. Additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. Our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. Because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license us at all, or refuse to license us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. Consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, including patent infringement, are commonplace in the IT industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. Third parties may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Patent assertion entities frequently purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of extracting infringement settlements. If we cannot license, or replace, allegedly infringed intellectual property on reasonable terms, our operations could be adversely affected. Even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, discontinue certain product offerings, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing, or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. Financial Risks Failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs, and access to capital markets. We currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, and Fitch Ratings Services. Despite these investment grade credit ratings, any future downgrades could increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper, or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. Additionally, increased borrowing costs, including those arising from a credit rating downgrade, can potentially reduce the competitiveness of our financing business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, and access to capital markets. Our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. In addition to our current total carrying debt, we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. This collective amount of debt could have important adverse consequences to us and our investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments; making it more difficult to satisfy other obligations; increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flows available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and 26 Table of Conten t limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock. Recent quantitative tightening by the U.S. Federal Reserve, along with other central banks around the world, may affect our short-term ability or desire to incur debt. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. In addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our outstanding debt or to repay our outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt. The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. Our revenue, gross margin, and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups, and geographic markets and therefore, will likely be different in future periods than our historical results. Our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. Delays or reductions in IT spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. In addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer, and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. The conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the trade sanctions imposed by the U.S., the EU, and other countries in response have negatively impacted our operations and financial performance in both countries. There could be additional negative impacts to our net revenues, earnings, and cash flows should the situation escalate beyond its current scope, including, among other potential impacts, economic recessions in certain neighboring countries or globally, due to inflationary pressures and supply chain cost increases or the geographic proximity of the war relative to the rest of Europe. Furthermore, the relationship between China and the U.S., and any subsequent action that may be taken by either country, may negatively impact our operations and financial performance. There could be additional uncertainty surrounding the enforceability of contract obligations, as well as the timing and form of payments from China. Competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions, and other risks affecting our businesses may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. Variations in fixed cost structure and gross margins across business units and product portfolios may lead to significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, newer geographic market opportunities may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. Market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts, and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. Moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. Our uneven sales cycle and supply chain disruptions make planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. In some of our businesses, our quarterly sales have periodically reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations, and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition, and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. Alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled. Depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages, or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. Separately, supply chain shortages and constraints have, in some instances, resulted in increases to the costs of production of our hardware products that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. We have, in some instances, responded to such constraints by committing to higher inventory purchases and balances relative to our historical positions in order to secure manufacturing capacity. While these measures have been taken to shorten lead times to deliver products to customers, they may 27 Table of Conten t also result in excess or obsolete components in the future if the demand for our products is less than we anticipate, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. In connection with the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." In addition, as discussed in Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting PoliciesUse of Estimates" and Note 17, "Litigation and Contingencies," to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Regulatory Risks Our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations such as those concerning environmental protection. For example, we face increasing complexity related to product design; the use of regulated, hazardous, and scarce materials; the associated energy consumption and efficiency related to the use of products; the transportation and shipping of products; climate change regulations; and the reuse, recycling and/or disposal of products and their components at end-of-use or useful life as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to our transition to a more circular economy. A significant portion of our hardware revenues come from international sales. Any changes to current environmental legal requirements, such as the EU's Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, the EU's Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, China's regulation on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products, the EU's Lot 9 regulation on product energy efficiency, and India's regulation on e-waste collection and recycling, among others, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware revenues from the EU, China, India and/or other countries proposing or adopting similar environmental legal requirements. In addition, other ESG-related laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are being proposed, adopted, and implemented throughout the world (including, but not limited to, the European Commissions proposal on Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence). If we were to violate or become liable under environmental or certain ESG-related laws or if our products become non-compliant with such laws or market access requirements, it could result in loss of market access or limit offerings in those markets or our customers may refuse to purchase our products, and we could incur costs or face other sanctions, such as restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions, fines, and/or civil or criminal sanctions. Environmental regulations may also impact the availability and cost of energy or emissions related to energy consumption which may increase our cost of manufacturing and/or the cost of powering and cooling owned IT infrastructures. In addition, our business is subject to an ever-growing number of laws addressing privacy and information security. In particular, we face an increasingly complex regulatory environment as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the security of our offerings. The increase in as-a-service offerings may also be impacted by data localization and international data transfer requirements under various privacy laws, including those arising from the Schrems II ruling in Europe. If we were to violate or become liable under laws or regulations associated with privacy or security, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions. Our potential exposure includes regulatory fines and civil or criminal sanctions third-party claims and reputational damage. Failure to comply with government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our contracts with federal, state, provincial, and local governmental customers are subject to various government procurement laws and regulations, required contract provisions, and other requirements relating to contract formation, administration, and performance, as well as manufacturing content and security requirements. Any violation of government contracting laws and regulations or contract terms could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and fines, treble damages, and suspension from future government contracting. Such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. In addition, we will continue to be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts. If we are suspended or disbarred from government work or if our ability to compete for new government contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. 28 Table of Conten t Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding, and other items. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result. There can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. The carrying value of our deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, an international association of 34 countries including the United States, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. These proposals, if finalized and adopted by the associated countries, would impose a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15%, could increase tax complexity and uncertainty, and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. During fiscal 2019, we executed a Termination and Mutual Release Agreement which terminated our Tax Matters Agreement with HP Inc. Because we now have limited indemnity rights from HP Inc., we potentially bear more economic risk for certain potential unfavorable tax assessments. On August 16, 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the Inflation Reduction Act) into law, which includes a new corporate alternative minimum tax (the "Corporate AMT"), beginning in fiscal 2024, of 15% on the adjusted financial statement income (AFSI) of corporations with average AFSI exceeding $1.0 billion over a three-year period and an excise tax of 1% tax on the fair market value of net stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. The impact of this provision will be dependent on the extent of share repurchases made in future periods. We are evaluating the Corporate AMT and its potential impact on our future U.S. tax expense, cash taxes, and effective tax rate, as well as any other impacts the Inflation Reduction Act may have on our financial position and results of operations. Risks Related to Prior Separations The stock distribution in either or both of the completed separations of our former Enterprise Services business and our former Software segment could result in significant tax liability, and DXC Technology Company or Micro Focus International plc (as applicable) may in certain cases be obligated to indemnify us for any such tax liability imposed on us. The completed separations and mergers of our former Enterprise Services business with DXC Technology Company ("DXC") (the "Everett Transaction" or "Everett") and our Software Segment with Micro Focus International plc ("Micro Focus") (the "Seattle Transaction" or "Seattle") were conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion from outside counsel regarding the qualification of (i) the relevant distribution and related transactions as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Sections 368(a), 361 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code"); and (ii) the relevant merger as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. While the Seattle Transaction generally qualified for tax-free treatment for us, Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, the acquisition of Seattle SpinCo by Micro Focus resulted in the recognition of gain (but not loss) for U.S. persons who received Micro Focus American Depositary Shares in the Software separation. Each opinion of outside counsel was based upon and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of us, Everett SpinCo and CSC, or us, Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, as applicable. If any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if any party breaches any of its covenants in the relevant separation documents, the relevant opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. Notwithstanding the opinions of counsel, the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") could determine that either or both of the distributions should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings upon which the relevant opinion of counsel was based are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. An opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS and there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert a contrary position. If the distribution of Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the stock of Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable, in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders who receive Everett SpinCo shares or Seattle SpinCo 29 Table of Conten t shares in the relevant distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. We obtained private letter rulings from the IRS regarding certain U.S. federal income tax matters relating to the separation of our Enterprise Services business and Software Segment. Those rulings concluded that certain transactions in those separations are generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The conclusions of the IRS private letter rulings were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to the IRS. If any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, the validity of the IRS private letter rulings may be affected. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business and Software Segment, including non-U.S. tax expenses resulting from the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business and Software Segment in multiple non-U.S. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. If the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business or Software Segment (including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of those separations) are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and/or DXC and/or Micro Focus could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Under the tax matters agreements entered into by us with Everett SpinCo and CSC, and with Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, Everett SpinCo and Seattle SpinCo generally would be required to indemnify us for any taxes resulting from the relevant separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) certain actions taken by, or acquisitions of capital stock of, Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable (excluding actions required by the documents governing the relevant separation), or (ii) any breach of certain representations and covenants made by Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable. Any such indemnity obligations could be material. We continue to face a number of risks related to our separation from HP Inc., our former parent, including those associated with ongoing indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and shared use of certain intellectual property rights, which could in the future adversely impact our reputation. In connection with our separation from HP Inc. on November 1, 2015 (the "Separation"), Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. entered into several agreements that determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the Separation and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. In these agreements, HP Inc. agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify HP Inc. for certain liabilities, including cross-indemnities that are designed and intended to place financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of our business with us, and financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of HP Inc.'s business with HP Inc. We may be obligated to fully indemnify HP Inc. for certain liabilities under the Separation agreements or HP Inc. may not be able to fully cover their indemnification obligations to us under the same Separation agreements. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, the terms of the Separation also include licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the operations of both businesses. For example, through a joint brand holding structure, both Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy Hewlett-Packard and HP branding, respectively. As a result of this continuing shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of HP Inc. could also adversely affect the reputation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise. General Risks Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. Investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile and can be affected by, among other things, speculation, coverage, or sentiment in the media or the investment community; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures, or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; developments in our transformation programs or in our transition to an as-a-service business model; our quarterly financial results and comparisons to estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by us; the financial results and business strategies of our competitors; inflation; market volatility or downturns caused by outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, geopolitical tensions or conflicts, or other macroeconomic dynamics; developments relating to pending investigations, claims, and disputes; or the timing and amount of our share repurchases. General or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise's performance also may affect the price of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's stock. Volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. 30 Table of Conten t ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. ITEM 2. Properties. As of October 31, 2022, we owned or leased approximately 12 million square feet of space worldwide, which included 3 million square feet of vacated space. A summary of the Company's operationally utilized space is provided below. As of October 31, 2022 Owned Leased Total (Square feet in millions) Administration and support 2 5 7 (Percentage) 29 % 71 % 100 % Core data centers, manufacturing plants, research and development facilities, and warehouse operations 1 1 2 (Percentage) 50 % 50 % 100 % Total 3 6 9 (Percentage) 33 % 67 % 100 % We believe that our existing properties are in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. Substantially all of our properties are utilized in whole or in part by our Compute, HPC & AI, Storage, and Intelligent Edge segments. In connection with the transformation programs, we continue to anticipate changes in our real estate portfolio over the next year. These changes may include reductions in overall space. Principal Executive Offices Our principal executive offices, including our global headquarters, are located at 1701 East Mossy Oaks Road, Spring, Texas, 77389, United States of America. Product Development, Services and Manufacturing The location of our major product development, services, manufacturing, and Hewlett Packard Labs facilities are as follows: Americas Puerto Rico Aguadilla United States Alpharetta, Andover, Chippewa Falls, Colorado Springs, Fort Collins, Houston, Milpitas, Roseville, Santa Clara, Spring, Sunnyvale Europe, Middle East, Africa United Kingdom Erskine Asia Pacific China Beijing India Bangalore Japan Tokyo Singapore Singapore Taiwan Taipei ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings. Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 17, "Litigation and Contingencies", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, which is incorporated herein by reference. 31 Table of Conten t PART II ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information The common stock of Hewlett Packard Enterprise is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") with the ticker symbol "HPE". Holders As of December 1, 2022, there were 48,316 stockholders of record of Hewlett Packard Enterprise common stock. Dividends During fiscal 2022, we paid a quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share to our shareholders. On November 29, 2022 we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share, payable on January 13, 2023, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 14, 2022. The payment of any dividends in the future, and the timing and amount thereof, is within the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors' decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, restrictive covenants in our debt, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and on our access to the capital markets. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to pay a dividend in any future period. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Fourth Quarter of Fiscal 2022 Total Number of Shares Purchased and Settled Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased under the Plans or Programs In thousands, except per share amounts Month 1 (August 2022) 3,074 $ 14.47 3,074 $ 1,468,188 Month 2 (September 2022) 3,220 $ 12.96 3,220 $ 1,426,457 Month 3 (October 2022) 3,223 $ 12.85 3,223 $ 1,385,018 Total 9,517 $ 13.41 9,517 On October 13, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program with a $3.0 billion authorization, which was refreshed with additional share repurchase authorizations of $3.0 billion, $5.0 billion and $2.5 billion on May 24, 2016, October 16, 2017 and February 21, 2018, respectively. This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. The Company may choose to repurchase shares when sufficient liquidity exists and the shares are trading at a discount relative to estimated intrinsic value. As of October 31, 2022, the Company had a remaining authorization of $1.4 billion for future share repurchases. 32 Table of Conten t Stock Performance Graph and Cumulative Total Return The graph below shows a comparison of cumulative total stockholder return, the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P Information Technology Index. This graph covers the period from October 31, 2017 through October 31, 2022. This graph assumes the investment of $100 in the stock or the index on October 31, 2017 (and the reinvestment of dividends thereafter). The comparisons in the graph below are based on historical data and are not indicative of, or intended to forecast, future performance of our common stock. 10/2017 10/2018 10/2019 10/2020 10/2021 10/2022 Hewlett Packard Enterprise $ 100.00 $ 112.11 $ 124.34 $ 68.23 $ 119.68 $ 120.41 S&P 500 Index $ 100.00 $ 107.33 $ 122.70 $ 134.60 $ 192.33 $ 164.18 S&P Information Technology Index $ 100.00 $ 112.29 $ 137.63 $ 185.07 $ 271.91 $ 216.82 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 33 Table of Conten t ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For purposes of this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") section, we use the terms "Hewlett Packard Enterprise", "HPE", "the Company", "we", "us", and "our" to refer to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. References in the MD&A section to "former Parent" refer to HP Inc. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021. Discussions of fiscal 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2021, as filed with the SEC on December 10, 2021, which is available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist the reader in understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. This MD&A is organized as follows: Trends and Uncertainties. A discussion of material events and uncertainties known to management, such as the ongoing macroeconomic environment of supply chain constraints and inflationary pressures, our managed exit from Russia and Belarus, recent tax legislation, and other events. Executive Overview. A discussion of our business and a summary of our financial performance and other highlights, including non-GAAP financial measures, affecting the Company in order to provide context to the remainder of the MD&A. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. A discussion of accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. Results of Operations. A discussion of the results of operations at the consolidated level is followed by a discussion of the results of operations at the segment level. Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis and discussion of changes in our cash flows, financial condition, liquidity, and cash requirements and commitments. GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation . Each non-GAAP financial measure has been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure therein. This section also includes a discussion of the usefulness of non-GAAP financial measures, and material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. 34 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) TRENDS AND UNCERTAINTIES The overall demand environment continues to improve but remains impacted by industry-wide supply constraints, which contributed to a challenging supply chain environment, and inflationary pressures, both of which have been driving up material, logistics, and overall costs. The pandemic-related lockdowns in China we experienced in the first half of the fiscal period alleviated somewhat in the second half of the fiscal period. The challenging supply chain environment moderated our full-year revenue growth, elevated costs, and delayed certain unit shipments, resulting in part in a higher level of backlog and related inventory at the end of the current period as compared to the end of the prior-year period. To address the challenging supply chain environment, we are taking proactive measures such as guiding certain customer demand to specific products, enhancing component engineering design, and multi-sourcing with indirect procurement. We expect the supply chain environment to continue to present challenges in the near term. Additionally, we are experiencing a challenging foreign exchange environment, which has moderated our revenue and earnings growth. We expect the unfavorable foreign exchange effects and inflationary trend to continue in the longer term. We expect the substantial completion of our HPE Next and cost optimization and prioritization restructuring plans coupled with related cost reduction measures, and operational efficiencies, to moderate the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange effects and inflationary pressures in fiscal 2023. Russia/Ukraine Conflict T he conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the related sanctions imposed by the U.S., European Union ("EU"), and other countries in response have negatively impacted our operations in both countries and increased economic and political uncertainty across the world. In response to the sanctions imposed, in February 2022, we suspended all new sales and shipments to Russia and Belarus and implemented compliance measures to address the continuously changing regulatory landscape. Based on a further assessment of business risks and needs, in June 2022, we determined that it is no longer tenable to maintain operations in Russia and Belarus and have been proceeding with an orderly, managed exit of our remaining business in these countries. In fiscal 2021, our operations in Russia and Belarus accounted for approximately 2% of our total net revenue. During fiscal 2022, we recorded total pre-tax charges of $161 million primarily related to expected credit losses of financing and trade receivables, employee severance, and abandoned assets, $99 million of which was included in Financing cost, $12 million in Cost of services, and $50 million in Disaster charges in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. We will continue monitoring the social, political, regulatory, and economic environment in Russia and Ukraine, and will consider further actions as appropriate. More broadly, there could be additional adverse impacts to our net revenues, earnings, and cash flows should the situation continue or escalate geopolitical tensions and the impacts of recession, inflation, and supply chain pressures, both regionally and globally. Recent U.S. Tax Legislation On August 16, 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the Inflation Reduction Act) into law. The Inflation Reduction Act includes a new corporate alternative minimum tax (the Corporate AMT) of 15% on the adjusted financial statement income (AFSI) of corporations with average AFSI exceeding $1.0 billion over a three-year period. The Corporate AMT is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2024. We are evaluating the Corporate AMT and its potential impact on our future U.S. tax expense, cash taxes, and effective tax rate. Additionally, the Inflation Reduction Act imposes an excise tax of 1% tax on the fair market value of net stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. The impact of this provision will be dependent on the extent of share repurchases made in future periods. Other Trends and Uncertainties We are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. One set of challenges include dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the market shift of workloads to cloud-related information technology ("IT") infrastructure business models, emergence of software-defined architectures and converged infrastructure functionality, and growth in IT consumption models. Certain of our legacy hardware server and storage businesses face challenges as customers migrate to cloud-based offerings and reduce their purchases of hardware products. Therefore, the demand environment for traditional server and storage products is challenging, and lower traditional compute and storage unit volume is impacting support attach opportunities within the associated services organization. 35 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Another set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. Our major competitors are expanding their product and service offerings with integrated products and solutions, our business-specific competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors. A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. We provide our customers with a choice between traditional consumption models or software consumption-based, pay-per-use and as-a-service offerings across our entire portfolio of HPE products and services. Additionally, the global pandemic has accelerated several trends relevant to the Company. First, the exponential increase of data at the edge driven by the proliferation of devices. Second, the need for a cloud experience everywhere to manage the growth of data at the edge. Third, data growth is creating new opportunities with the need to quickly extract value from the captured data. Enterprises have embraced multi-cloud strategies, as they recognize the need for different cloud environments for different types of data and workloads. Increasingly, customers want to digitally transform, while preserving capital and eliminating operating expense, by paying only for the IT they use. In response to the aforementioned challenges, we are accelerating our development and innovation efforts in the areas of our strategic focus, including the Intelligent Edge and HPC & AI businesses, while at the same time, strengthening our core Compute and Storage businesses, by investing in key areas of growth and accelerating our as-a-service pivot to become the edge-to-cloud company for our customers and partners with our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform. During the fiscal period, we announced significant advancements to our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, our flagship hybrid offering that enables organizations to modernize all their applications and data, from edge to cloud and supports multi-cloud experiences everywhere including clouds that live on-premises, at the edge, in a colocation facility, and in a public cloud. The platform advancements included a unified operating experience with one view of all services edge to cloud along with convergence with the Aruba Central cloud service, twelve new cloud services including network as-a-service, data services, high performance computing functions, compute operations management, and availability of the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform in the online marketplaces of several leading distributors. We also launched HPE GreenLake for Private Cloud Enterprise, which is a private cloud experience for traditional and cloud-native workloads. These updates strengthen the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform and help customers drive their data modernization needs. The following Executive Overview, Results of Operations and Liquidity discussions and analysis compare fiscal 2022 to fiscal 2021, unless otherwise noted. The Capital Resources and, Cash Requirements and Commitments sections present information as of October 31, 2022, unless otherwise noted. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Net revenue of $28.5 billion represented an increase of 2.6% (increased 5.1% on a constant currency basis) as robust demand reflected by a high order backlog was moderated by a combination of unfavorable currency fluctuations, ongoing supply chain constraints, and lower revenue from Russia. The net revenue increase was led by effective pricing management in server products and strong demand for networking products. The gross profit margin of 33.4% (or $9.5 billion) represents a decrease of 0.3 percentage points and was primarily driven by a combination of supply chain constraints and related cost increases, higher costs in HPC & AI, and unfavorable currency fluctuations. Moderating the gross profit decrease was pricing discipline and strong cost management in server products. The operating profit margin of 2.7%, represents a decrease of 1.4 percentage points primarily due to goodwill impairment charges for the HPC & AI and Software businesses. The decrease in o perating profit margin was primarily moderated by lower transformation costs. We generated $4.6 billion of cash flow from operations and $1.8 billion of free cash flows primarily due to improved working capital management. 36 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Financial Results The following table summarizes our consolidated GAAP financial results: For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2022 2021 Change In millions, except per share amounts Net revenue $ 28,496 $ 27,784 2.6% Gross profit $ 9,506 $ 9,376 1.4% Gross profit margin 33.4 % 33.7 % (0.3)pts Earnings from operations $ 782 $ 1,132 (30.9)% Operating profit margin 2.7 % 4.1 % (1.4)pts Net earnings $ 868 $ 3,427 (74.7)% Diluted net earnings per share $ 0.66 $ 2.58 $(1.92) Cash flow from operations $ 4,593 $ 5,871 (21.8)% The following table summarizes our consolidated non-GAAP financial results: For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2022 2021 Change In millions, except per share amounts Net revenue adjusted for currency $ 29,213 $ 27,784 5.1% Non-GAAP gross profit $ 9,667 $ 9,424 2.6% Non-GAAP gross profit margin 33.9 % 33.9 % pts Non-GAAP earnings from operations $ 3,026 $ 2,848 6.3% Non-GAAP operating profit margin 10.6 % 10.3 % 0.3pts Non-GAAP net earnings $ 2,664 $ 2,602 2.4% Non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share $ 2.02 $ 1.96 $0.06 Free cash flow $ 1,794 $ 1,551 $243 Each non-GAAP financial measure has been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure herein. Please refer to the section "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations" included in this MD&A for these reconciliations, usefulness of non-GAAP financial measures, and material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Annualized Revenue Run-rate ("ARR") Our pivot to as-a-service continues its strong momentum with the addition of HPE GreenLake Cloud Services. Our mix of ARR is becoming more software-rich as we build our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, which is improving our margin profile. On the innovation front, we announced a transformative new data storage services platform that brings our cloud operations model to wherever data lives by unifying data operations. The platform will be available through HPE GreenLake Central and includes a new data services cloud console and a suite of software subscription services that simplifies and automates global infrastructure at scale. We will continue to invest aggressively in HPE GreenLake Cloud Services to provide a true cloud experience and operating model, whether at the edge, on-premises or across multiple clouds. ARR represents the annualized revenue of all net HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform services revenue, related financial services revenue (which includes rental income from operating leases and interest income from finance leases), and software-as-a-service, software consumption revenue, and other as-a-service offerings, recognized during a quarter and multiplied by four. We use ARR as a performance metric. ARR should be viewed independently of net revenue and is not intended to be combined with it. 37 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The following presents our ARR as of October 31, 2022 and 2021: For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2022 2021 In millions ARR $ 936 $ 796 Year-over-year growth rate 17 % 36 % The 17% year over year increase in ARR represents growth from our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform and related financial services. The growth in the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform was due to an expanding customer installed base moderated by unfavorable currency fluctuations, supply chain constraints and related installation delays. At the segment level, the growth is led by Storage as-a-service including Zerto and Intelligent Edge as-a-service activity. Returning capital to our shareholders remains an important part of our capital allocation framework, which also consists of strategic investments. We believe our existing balance of cash and cash equivalents, along with commercial paper and other short-term liquidity arrangements, are sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, dividends, debt repayments, and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations. As of October 31, 2022, our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $4.76 billion, compared to $4.33 billion as of October 31, 2021, representing an increase of $0.43 billion. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), which requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. A summary of significant accounting policies and a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Financial Statements are included in Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if the nature of the estimate or assumption it incorporates is subject to material level of judgment related to matters that are highly uncertain and changes in those estimates and assumptions are reasonably likely to materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. Estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, forecasted events, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Estimates and judgments may vary under different assumptions or conditions. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We believe the accounting policies below are critical in the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments. Revenue Recognition We enter into contracts with customers that may include combinations of products and services, resulting in arrangements containing multiple performance obligations for hardware and software products and/or various services. The majority of our revenue is derived from sales of products and services and the associated support and maintenance, and such revenue is recognized when, or as, control of promised products or services is transferred to the customer at the transaction price. Transaction price is adjusted for variable consideration which may be offered in contracts with customers, partners, and distributors and may include rebates, volume-based discounts, cooperative marketing, price protection, and other incentive programs. Significant judgment is applied in determining the transaction price as we may be required to estimate variable consideration at the time of revenue recognition. When determining the amount of revenue to recognize, we estimate the expected usage of these programs, applying the expected value or most likely estimate and update the estimate at each reporting period as actual utilization becomes available. Variable consideration is recognized only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur. We also consider the customers' right of return in determining the transaction price, where applicable. 38 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) To recognize revenue for the products and services for which control has been transferred, we allocate the transaction price for the contract among the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price ("SSP") basis. We establish SSP for most of our products and services based on the observable price of the products or services when sold separately in similar circumstances to similar customers. When the SSP is not directly observable, we estimate SSP based on management judgment by considering available data, such as internal margin objectives, pricing strategies, market/competitive conditions, historical profitability data, as well as other observable inputs. We establish SSP ranges for our products and services and reassesses them periodically. Taxes on Earnings We calculate our current and deferred tax provisions based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the final positions reflected in our income tax returns. We adjust our current and deferred tax provisions based on our tax returns which are generally filed in the third or fourth quarters of the subsequent fiscal year. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that we are more likely than not to realize. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, we consider future market growth, forecasted earnings, future sources of taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in the jurisdictions in which the deferred tax assets are located. Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings and basis differences for which we have not provided for U.S. federal taxes because we plan to reinvest such earnings and basis differences indefinitely outside the U.S. We will remit non-indefinitely reinvested earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries for which deferred U.S. state income and foreign withholding taxes have been provided where excess cash has accumulated and when we determine that it is advantageous for business operations, tax, or cash management reasons. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and approximately 90 other countries, and we are subject to routine corporate income tax audits in many of these jurisdictions. We believe that positions taken on our tax returns are fully supported, but tax authorities may challenge these positions, which may not be fully sustained on examination by the relevant tax authorities. Accordingly, our income tax provision includes amounts intended to satisfy assessments that may result from these challenges. Determining the income tax provision for these potential assessments and recording the related effects requires management judgments and estimates. The amounts ultimately paid on resolution of an audit could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax provision and, therefore, could have a material impact on our (Provision) benefit for taxes, Net earnings (loss) and cash flows. Our accrual for uncertain tax positions is attributable primarily to uncertainties concerning the tax treatment of our international operations, including the allocation of income among different jurisdictions, intercompany transactions and related interest, and uncertain tax positions from acquired companies. For further discussion on taxes on earnings, refer to Note 6, "Taxes on Earnings", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Goodwill We review goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually on the first day of the fourth quarter, or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. We are permitted to conduct a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. As of October 31, 2022, our reporting units with goodwill are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 2, "Segment Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, with the exception of Corporate Investments and Other which contains three reporting units, Software, CMS and A & PS. When performing the goodwill impairment test, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount. An impairment exists if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Estimating the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a weighting of fair values derived mostly from the income approach and, to a lesser extent, the market approach, with the exception of the Software reporting unit which uses a weighting derived mostly from the market approach. Under the income approach, the fair value of a reporting unit is based on discounted cash flow analysis of management's short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance. This analysis includes significant assumptions 39 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) regarding revenue growth rates, expected operating margins, and timing of expected future cash flows based on market conditions and customer acceptances. The discount rate used is based on the weighted-average cost of capital of comparable public companies adjusted for the relevant risk associated with business specific characteristics and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit's ability to execute on the projected cash flows. Under the market approach, the fair value is based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable publicly traded companies with operating and investment characteristics similar to the reporting unit. We weight the fair value derived from the market approach commensurate with the level of comparability of these publicly traded companies to the reporting unit. When market comparables are not meaningful or not available, we estimate the fair value of a reporting unit using the income approach. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to individual reporting units to determine the carrying amount of each reporting unit. Our fiscal 2022 annual goodwill impairment analysis resulted in impairment charges for goodwill related to the HPC & AI and Software reporting units. There was no impairment of goodwill for our other reporting units. The decline in the fair value of the HPC & AI reporting unit below its carrying value resulted from changes in expected future cash flows as compared to our fiscal 2021 long-term plan due to the continuation of supply chain constraints, and other operational challenges as well as an increase in cost of capital. Prior to the quantitative goodwill impairment test, we tested the recoverability of long-lived assets and other assets of the HPC & AI reporting unit and concluded that such assets were not impaired. As a result, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $815 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. The HPC & AI reporting unit has remaining goodwill allocated of $2.9 billion as of October 31, 2022 and an excess of fair value over carrying value of net assets of 0% as of the annual test date. The HPC & AI business is facing challenges reflected in the results for the year ended October 31, 2022. The challenges are primarily related to supply chain constraints and other operational challenges impacting our ability to achieve certain customer acceptance milestones required for revenue recognition and resulting cost increases associated with fulfilling contracts over longer than originally anticipated timelines. We currently believe these challenges will be successfully addressed when supply chain constraints ease. If the global macroeconomic or geopolitical conditions worsen, projected revenue growth rates or operating margins decline, weighted average cost of capital increases, or if we have significant or sustained decline in our stock price, it is possible our estimates about the HPC & AI reporting unit's ability to successfully address the current challenges may change, which could result in the carrying value of the HPC & AI reporting unit exceeding its estimated fair value and potential impairment charges. The decline in the fair value of the Software reporting unit resulted primarily from a decline in market multiples. Prior to the quantitative goodwill impairment test, we tested the recoverability of long-lived assets and other assets of the Software reporting unit and concluded that such assets were not impaired. As a result, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $90 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. The Software reporting unit has remaining goodwill allocated of $123 million as of October 31, 2022 and an excess of fair value over carrying value of net assets of 0% as of the annual test date. As noted above, the Software reporting unit relies significantly on the market approach, which is impacted by market volatility. If global macroeconomic or geopolitical conditions worsen and cause a further decline in equity market or if revenue expectations are not met, this could result in the carrying value of the Software reporting unit exceeding its estimated fair value and potential impairment charges. The excess of fair value over carrying amount for our reporting units, excluding HPC & AI and Software, ranged from approximately 22% to 142% of the respective carrying amounts. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the estimated fair value of our other reporting units in the goodwill impairment test, we applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair value of each reporting unit. Based on the results of this hypothetical 10% decrease, all of the other reporting units had an excess of fair value over carrying amount. Contingencies We are subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Significant judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of a loss, if any, from such contingencies. An accrual is made when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We review these matters at least quarterly and adjust these liabilities to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other updated information and events, pertaining to a particular case. Based on our experience, we believe that any damage amounts claimed in the specific litigation and contingency matters further discussed in Note 17, "Litigation and Contingencies", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, are 40 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) not a meaningful indicator of our potential liability. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. However, we believe we have valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against us. Nevertheless, cash flows or results of operations could be materially affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these contingencies. We believe we have recorded adequate provisions for any such matters and, as of October 31, 2022, it was not reasonably possible that a material loss had been incurred in connection with such matters in excess of the amounts recognized in our financial statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue from our international operations has historically represented, and we expect will continue to represent, a majority of our overall net revenue. As a result, our revenue growth has been impacted, and we expect will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to provide a framework for assessing performance excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we present the year-over-year percentage change in revenue on a constant currency basis, which assumes no change in foreign currency exchange rates from the prior-year period and does not adjust for any repricing or demand impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This change in revenue on a constant currency basis is calculated as the quotient of (a) current year revenue converted to U.S. dollars using the prior-year period's foreign currency exchange rates divided by (b) the prior-year period revenue. This information is provided so that revenue can be viewed without the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which is consistent with how management evaluates our revenue results and trends. This constant currency disclosure is provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the year-over-year percentage change in revenue on a GAAP basis. Other companies may calculate and define similarly labeled items differently, which may limit the usefulness of this measure for comparative purposes. Results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2022 2021 2020 Dollars % of Revenue Dollars % of Revenue Dollars % of Revenue Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 28,496 100.0 % $ 27,784 100.0 % $ 26,982 100.0 % Cost of sales 18,990 66.6 % 18,408 66.3 % 18,513 68.6 % Gross profit 9,506 33.4 % 9,376 33.7 % 8,469 31.4 % Research and development 2,045 7.2 % 1,979 7.1 % 1,874 6.9 % Selling, general and administrative 4,941 17.3 % 4,929 17.7 % 4,624 17.2 % Amortization of intangible assets 293 1.0 % 354 1.3 % 379 1.4 % Impairment of goodwill 905 3.2 % % 865 3.2 % Transformation costs 473 1.7 % 930 3.3 % 950 3.5 % Disaster charges 48 0.2 % 16 0.1 % 26 0.1 % Acquisition, disposition and other related charges 19 0.1 % 36 0.1 % 80 0.3 % Earnings (loss) from operations 782 2.7 % 1,132 4.1 % (329) (1.2) % Interest and other, net (188) (0.7) % (211) (0.8) % (215) (0.8) % Tax indemnification and related adjustments (67) (0.2) % 65 0.2 % (101) (0.4) % Non-service net periodic benefit credit 134 0.5 % 70 0.3 % 136 0.5 % Litigation judgment % 2,351 8.5 % % Earnings from equity interests 215 0.8 % 180 0.6 % 67 0.3 % Earnings (loss) before taxes 876 3.1 % 3,587 12.9 % (442) (1.6) % (Provision) benefit for taxes (8) (0.1) % (160) (0.6) % 120 0.4 % Net earnings (loss) $ 868 3.0 % $ 3,427 12.3 % $ (322) (1.2) % 41 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 Net revenue In fiscal 2022, total net revenue of $28.5 billion, increased by $0.7 billion, or 2.6% (increased 5.1% on a constant currency basis). U.S. net revenue increased by $0.6 billion or 6.5% to $9.4 billion, while net revenue from outside of the U.S. increased by $0.1 billion or 0.7% to $19.1 billion. From a segment perspective, net revenue increased across many of our segments due to the improved demand environment led by revenue growth of 11%, 4%, and 0.3% in Intelligent Edge, Compute, and HPC & AI, respectively, and decreased 7%, 2%, 1% in Corporate Investments and Other, Financial Services, and Storage, respectively. The components of the weighted net revenue change by segment were as follows: For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2022 2021 Percentage Points Compute 1.6 HPC & AI 0.1 0.3 Storage (0.1) 0.3 Intelligent Edge 1.3 1.6 Financial Services (0.2) 0.2 Corporate Investments and Other (0.4) 0.2 Total segment 2.3 2.6 Elimination of intersegment net revenue 0.3 0.4 Total HPE 2.6 3.0 Gross Profit For the twelve months ended October 31, 2022, the total gross profit margin of 33.4%, represents a decrease of 0.3 percentage points compared to the prior-year period. The decrease was primarily driven by a combination of supply chain constraints and related cost increases, higher costs in HPC & AI, and unfavorable currency fluctuations, with costs from expected credit losses related to exiting our Russia and Belarus businesses adding to the overall decline. Moderating the gross profit decrease was pricing discipline and strong cost management in server products. Operating expenses Research and development ("R&D") R&D expense increased by $66 million, or 3% due primarily to higher overall employee compensation expense, which contributed 1.8 percentage points to the change, and a combination of higher facilities expense, training and travel expenses, and software expenditures, which in total contributed 1.3 percentage points to the change. Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") SG&A expense increased by $12 million, or 0.2% due primarily to higher travel expense as the economy reopens and COVID-19 restrictions ease, higher software expenditures, and the release of bad debt reserves in the prior-year period, which contributed 1.2 percentage points, 0.5 percentage points and 0.3 percentage points to the change, respectively. The increase was partially offset by a combination of lower employee cost driven by lower variable compensatio n expense and cost savings from our transformation programs which in total contributed 1.9 percentage points to the change. Additionally, the overall increase in SG&A expense was moderated across various expense categories by favorable currency fluctuations. Amortization of intangible assets Amortization expense decreased by $61 million, or 17% due to certain intangible assets associated with prior acquisitions reaching the end of their amortization periods moderated by an increase in amortization expense in the current period resulting 42 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) from recent acquisitions. Additionally, the decrease in the current fiscal period was due to certain write-offs taken in the prior fiscal period. Impairment of goodwill Impairment of goodwill for fiscal 2022 represents a partial goodwill impairment charge of $905 million recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, as it was determined that the fair value of the HPC & AI and Software reporting units was below the carrying value of their net assets. Refer to Note 11, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II for more information. Transformation programs and costs Our transformation programs consist of the cost optimization and prioritization plan (launched in 2020) and the HPE Next initiative (launched in 2017). Transformation costs decreased by $457 million, or 49% due primarily to lower restructuring charges recorded in the current fiscal period as restructuring actions related to employee severance, infrastructure, and other under the cost optimization and prioritization plan are approaching completion primarily in fiscal 2023. For a further discussion, refer to Note 3, Transformation Programs" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Interest and other, net Interest and other, net expense decreased by $23 million due primarily to early debt redemption costs incurred in the prior-year period, while in the current-year period a combination of higher gains from the sale of certain assets, lower interest expense from lower average borrowings, and increased interest income from higher interest rates contributed to the net expense decline. This decline was moderated by the current period containing lower gains from equity investments and unfavorable currency fluctuations. Tax indemnification and related adjustments We record changes in certain pre-separation tax liabilities for which we shared joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which we were indemnified under the Termination and Mutual Release Agreement within Tax indemnification and related adjustments. We also record changes to certain pre-separation and pre-divestiture tax liabilities and tax receivables for which we remain liable on behalf of the separated or divested business, but which may not be subject to indemnification. We recorded Tax indemnification and related adjustments expense of $67 million and income of $65 million in fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. Tax indemnification and related adjustments in fiscal 2022 resulted from changes in certain pre-separation tax liabilities, for which we partially shared joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which we were indemnified under the Termination and Mutual Release Agreement, and changes to certain pre-divestiture tax liabilities and tax receivables. Tax indemnification and related adjustments in fiscal 2021 primarily included the impacts of a Brazilian Supreme Court decision received regarding the base on which two social contribution taxes in Brazil ("PIS" and "COFINS") are imposed. As a result of this decision, the Company is entitled to recover credits and associated interest related to the overpayment of these transaction taxes imposed between 2005 and 2019 to be used to offset future Brazilian tax liabilities. As such, we have recorded benefits of $17 million and $80 million, both net of taxes, for the recovery of PIS and COFINS, respectively, during fiscal 2021, of which $25 million was included in Net revenue, $10 million related to interest income was included in Interest and other, net, and $80 million related to pre-separation liabilities was included in Tax indemnification and related adjustments. The corresponding income taxes of $18 million as a result of this recovery were included in (Provision) benefit for taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Non-service net periodic benefit credit Non-service net periodic benefit credit represents the components of net periodic pension benefit costs, other than service cost, for the Hewlett Packard Enterprise defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans such as interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and the amortization of prior plan amendments and actuarial gains or losses. The credit also includes the impact of any plan settlements, curtailments, or special termination benefits. 43 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Non-service net periodic benefit credit increased by $64 million due primarily to lower amortized actuarial losses, partially offset by higher interest cost due to higher discount rates and lower expected returns on assets in the current period. Litigation judgment Litigation judgment represents the $2.35 billion settlement we received in October 2021 in relation to the Itanium litigation judgment. The gain was recognized as other income and presented as a Litigation judgment in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings in the prior-year perio d. For further discussion, refer to Note 17, Litigation and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Earnings from equity interests Earnings from equity interests primarily represents our 49% interest in H3C Technologies and the amortization of our interest in a basis difference. Earnings from equity interests increased by $35 million due primarily to lower amortization expense from basis difference and higher net income earned by H3C in the current period, partially offset by gains from certain venture investments in the prior-year period. (Provision) benefit for taxes For fiscal 2022 and 2021, we recorded income tax expense of $8 million and $160 million, respectively, which reflect effective tax rates of 0.9% and 4.5%, respectively. Our effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower tax jurisdictions throughout the world but may also be materially impacted by discrete tax adjustments during the fiscal year. Our tax rate for fiscal 2022 also included the effects of the non-deductible goodwill impairment. The jurisdictions with favorable tax rates that had the most significant impact on our effective tax rate in the periods presented include Puerto Rico and Singapore. In fiscal 2022, we recorded $454 million of net income tax benefits related to items discrete to the year. These amounts primarily included: $150 million of income tax benefits related to releases of foreign valuation allowances, $99 million of income tax benefits related to transformation costs and acquisition, disposition and other related charges, $43 million of income tax benefits related to the settlement of U.S. tax audit matters, $42 million of income tax benefits related to the release of U.S. passive foreign tax credit valuation allowance, $30 million of income tax benefits related to the change in pre-separation tax liabilities, primarily those for which the Company shared joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which the Company was indemnified by HP Inc. $27 million of income tax benefits related to the utilization of capital losses which had a full valuation allowance, $12 million of income tax benefits as a result of the fiscal 2021 U.S. tax return filing primarily from the decrease in Global Intangible Low Taxed Income, and $11 million of net income tax benefits related to settlements and ongoing discussions in foreign tax audit matters. In fiscal 2021, we recorded $294 million of net income tax benefits related to items discrete to the year. These amounts primarily included: $180 million of income tax benefits related to transformation costs and acquisition, disposition and other related charges, $157 million of income tax benefits related to releases of foreign valuation allowances, $39 million of income tax benefits related to tax rate changes on deferred taxes, $32 million of income tax benefits related to the change in pre-separation tax liabilities, primarily those for which we shared joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which we were indemnified by HP Inc. These benefits were partially offset by $337 million of net income tax charges associated with income from the Itanium litigation judgment, against which $244 million of income tax attributes previously subject to a valuation allowance were utilized, resulting in a net tax expense of $93 million. 44 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Segment Information Hewlett Packard Enterprise's organizational structure is based on a number of factors that the Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM"), who is the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), uses to evaluate, view and run our business operations, which include, but are not limited to, customer base and homogeneity of products and technology. The segments are based on this organizational structure and information reviewed by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's management to evaluate segment results. A description of the products and services for each segment, along with other pertinent information related to Segments can be found in Note 2, "Segment Information", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Segment Results The following provides an overview of our key financial metrics by segment for fiscal 2022, as compared to fiscal 2021: HPE Consolidated Compute HPC & AI Storage Intelligent Edge Financial Services Corporate Investments and Other Dollars in millions, except for per share amounts Net revenue (1) $ 28,496 $ 12,742 $ 3,192 $ 4,711 $ 3,674 $ 3,339 $ 1,255 Year-over-year change % 2.6 % 3.7 % 0.3 % (1.0) % 11.3 % (1.8) % (7.4) % Earnings (loss) from operations (2) $ 782 $ 1,780 $ 11 $ 682 $ 549 $ 399 $ (92) Earnings (loss) from operations as a % of net revenue 2.7 % 14.0 % 0.3 % 14.5 % 14.9 % 11.9 % (7.3) % Year-over-year change percentage points (1.4) pts 3.2 pts (7.0) pts (1.8) pts (0.5) pts 0.4 pts (0.3) pts (1) HPE consolidated net revenue excludes inter-segment net revenue. (2) Segment earnings from operations exclude certain unallocated corporate costs and eliminations, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of initial direct costs, amortization of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, transformation costs, disaster charges and acquisition, disposition and other related charges. Compute For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs 2021 % Change 2021 vs 2020 % Change Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 12,742 $ 12,284 $ 12,274 3.7 % 0.1 % Earnings from operations $ 1,780 $ 1,323 $ 1,002 34.5 % 32.0 % Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 14.0 % 10.8 % 8.2 % Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 Compute net revenue increased by $458 million, or 3.7% (increased 6.0% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to higher average unit prices resulting from a combination of increased sales of server configurations with more complex component architectures in our next generation products and disciplined pricing actions. The net revenue increase was moderated by unfavorable currency fluctuations and lower unit shipments resulting from supply constraints due to the challenging supply chain environment. As a result, we ended the period with a high level of order backlog. Compute experienced product revenue growth in the rack and synergy server categories moderated by a revenue decline due to certain products approaching their end-of-life. Services net revenue declined primarily due to lower revenue from Russia and the impact of delayed hardware shipments on services contracts. Compute earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 3.2 percentage po ints due to decreases in costs of products and services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in costs of products and services as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to pricing discipline and strong cost management partially offset by unfavorable currency fluctuations and the impact of supply chain constraints and related costs. 45 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to cost reduction measures and lower variable compensation expense. HPC & AI For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs 2021 % Change 2021 vs 2020 % Change Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 3,192 $ 3,184 $ 3,102 0.3 % 2.6 % Earnings from operations $ 11 $ 231 $ 282 (95.2) % (18.1) % Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 0.3 % 7.3 % 9.1 % Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 HPC & AI net revenue increased by $8 million or 0.3% (increased 1.9% on a constant currency basis) as a result of growth in HPC led by Converged Edge Systems (formerly known as Edge Compute) and in Data Solutions. The increase was moderated by a decline in net revenue from HPE Cray products as a result of supply chain constraints and other operational challenges impacting the achievement of certain customer acceptance milestones required for revenue recognition. The increase in net revenue was also moderated by lower services revenue due primarily to an unfavorable portfolio mix of service offerings and unfavorable currency fluctuations. HPC & AI earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decrease d 7.0 per centage points primarily due to increases in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to higher operational costs, supply chain constraints and related cost increases, and lower revenue from higher-margin services. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to higher investments in research and development which focus on high-performance computing and AI solutions, including integrating such solutions into our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, partially offset by lower variable compensation expense. Storage For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs 2021 % Change 2021 vs 2020 % Change Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 4,711 $ 4,760 $ 4,682 (1.0) % 1.7 % Earnings from operations $ 682 $ 775 $ 810 (12.0) % (4.3) % Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 14.5 % 16.3 % 17.3 % Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 Storage net revenue decreased by $49 million, or 1.0% (increased 0.5% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to unfavorable currency fluctuations and supply chain constraints. Net revenue declined in Storage products moderated by an increase in Storage services. The decline in Storage products was led by declines in HPE 3PAR, as we transition to its next generation of product platforms, such as HPE Alletra and HPE Primera products, and lower traditional storage revenue. The increase in Storage services was led by Zerto Services and higher subscription services as we continue our transition to more services-intensive, and software-rich offerings, partially offset by lower support services revenue. Storage earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decr eased 1.8 perce ntage points as cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue remained unchanged and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue increased. Cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue remained unchanged as the impact of increased sales of higher- margin Zerto products was moderated by supply chain constraints and related costs, which unfavorably impacted the mix of certain higher-margin products, and unfavorable currency fluctuations. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to higher investments in research and development and SG&A, focused on as-a-service offerings, partially offset by lower variable compensation expense. 46 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Intelligent Edge For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs 2021 % Change 2021 vs 2020 % Change Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 3,674 $ 3,302 $ 2,872 11.3 % 15.0 % Earnings from operations $ 549 $ 509 $ 346 7.9 % 47.1 % Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 14.9 % 15.4 % 12.0 % Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 Intelligent Edge net revenue increased by $372 million, or 11.3% (increased 14.0% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to a robust demand environment, reflected in a high backlog, which continues to be impacted by supply constraints resulting from a challenging supply chain environment. Net revenue increased in both Intelligent Edge products and services but was moderated by unfavorable currency fluctuations. The increase in product revenue was primarily driven by the wireless local area network ("WLAN") business, partially offset by declines in the Switching business due to material constraints. Growth in services revenue was led by higher attached support services and our as-a-service offerings. Intelligent Edge earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 0.5 percentage points primarily due to an increase in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in cost of product and services as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to supply chain constraints and related costs and unfavorable currency fluctuations. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to lower variable compensation expense and an increase in the scale of net revenue. Financial Services For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs 2021 % Change 2021 vs 2020 % Change Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 3,339 $ 3,401 $ 3,352 (1.8) % 1.5 % Earnings from operations $ 399 $ 390 $ 284 2.3 % 37.3 % Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 11.9 % 11.5 % 8.5 % Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 FS net revenue decreased by $62 million, or 1.8% (increased 1.7% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to unfavorable currency fluctuations, partially offset by higher asset management revenue from pre-owned equipment sales, lease buyouts, and remarketing equipment sales. FS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 0.4 percentage points due primarily to lower cost of services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease to cost of services as a percentage of net revenue resulted primarily from a combination of lower depreciation expense and bad debt. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to lower employee cost driven by lower variable compensation expense. The provision for expected credit losses due to the Company's exit from its Russia and Belarus businesses for the year ended October 31, 2022, was excluded from segment operating results. Financing Volume For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2022 2021 2020 Dollars in millions Financing volume $ 6,252 $ 6,168 $ 6,005 47 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Financing volume, which represents the amount of financing provided to customers for equipment and related software and services, including intercompany activity, increased by 1.4% in fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior-year period. The increase was primarily driven by higher financing associated with third-party product sales and related service offerings, partially offset by unfavorable currency fluctuations and lower financing of HPE product sales and related service offerings. Portfolio Assets and Ratios The FS business model is asset intensive and uses certain internal metrics to measure its performance against other financial services companies, including a segment balance sheet that is derived from our internal management reporting system. The accounting policies used to derive FS amounts are substantially the same as those used by the Company. However, intercompany loans and certain accounts that are reflected in the segment balances are eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The portfolio assets and ratios derived from the segment balance sheets for FS were as follows: As of October 31, 2022 2021 Dollars in millions Financing receivables, gross $ 8,359 $ 9,198 Net equipment under operating leases 4,103 4,001 Capitalized profit on intercompany equipment transactions (1) 241 275 Intercompany leases (1) 97 96 Gross portfolio assets 12,800 13,570 Allowance for doubtful accounts (2) 222 228 Operating lease equipment reserve 44 39 Total reserves 266 267 Net portfolio assets $ 12,534 $ 13,303 Reserve coverage 2.1 % 2.0 % Debt-to-equity ratio (3) 7.0x 7.0x (1) Intercompany activity is eliminated in consolidation. (2) Allowance for credit losses for financing receivables includes both the short- and long-term portions. (3) Debt benefiting FS consists of intercompany equity that is treated as debt for segment reporting purposes, intercompany debt, and borrowing- and funding-related activity associated with FS and its subsidiaries. Debt benefiting FS totaled $11.5 billion and $11.9 billion at October 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and was determined by applying an assumed debt-to-equity ratio, which management believes to be comparable to that of other similar financing companies. FS equity at October 31, 2022 and 2021, was $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. As of October 31, 2022 and 2021, FS net cash and cash equivalents were $923 million and $898 million, respectively. Net portfolio assets as of October 31, 2022 decreased 5.8% from October 31, 2021. The decrease generally resulted from unfavorable currency fluctuations, partially offset by new financing volume exceeding portfolio runoff during the period. FS bad debt expense includes charges to general reserves, specific reserves and write-offs for sales-type, direct-financing and operating leases. FS recorded net bad debt expense of $82 million, $95 million and $93 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. As of October 31, 2022, FS experienced a decrease in billed finance receivables compared to October 31, 2021, which included a limited impact to collections from customers as a result of the pandemic, and customers from Russia. We are currently unable to fully predict the extent to which the pandemic and our exit from Russia and Belarus businesses may adversely impact future collections of our receivables. 48 Table of Contents HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Corporate Investments and Other For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs 2021 % Change 2021 vs 2020 % Change Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 1,255 $ 1,356 $ 1,298 (7.4) % 4.5 % Loss from operations $ (92) $ (95) $ (206) 3.2 % 53.9 % Loss from operations as a % of net revenue (7.3) % (7.0) % (15.9) % Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 Corporate Investments and Other net revenue decreased by $101 million, or 7.4% (decreased 0.4% on a constant currency basis) due to unfavorable currency fluctuations. Corporate Investments and Other loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 0.3 percentage points due primarily to lower cost of services as a percentage of net revenue and an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in cost of services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to improved service delivery efficiencies in A & PS and lower variable compensation expense largely offset by a lower mix of higher margin license revenue in Software . The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to the scale of the net revenue decline partially offset by lower variable compensation expense. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Current Overview We use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity. We believe that internally generated cash flows will be generally sufficient to support our operating businesses, capital expenditures, product development initiatives, acquisitions and disposal activities including legal settlements, restructuring activities, transformation costs, indemnifications, maturing debt, interest payments, and income tax payments, in addition to any future investments, share repurchases, and stockholder dividend payments. We expect to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, by accessing the capital markets, issuing commercial paper, and borrowing under credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions. However, our access to capital markets may be constrained and our cost of borrowing may increase under certain business, market and economic conditions. We anticipate that the funds made available and cash generated from operations along with our access to capital markets will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for at least the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. We continue to monitor the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the U.S. and other global economies, the capital markets, consumer behavior, our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A and market risks identified in the section entitled "