Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Hewlett Packard Enterprise") may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, effective tax rates, the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Job Act of 2017, including the effect on deferred tax assets and the one-time transition tax on unremitted foreign earnings, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, deferred tax assets, share repurchases, currency exchange rates or other financial items; any projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or restructuring charges; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, as well as the execution of transformation and restructuring plans and any resulting cost savings, revenue or profitability improvements; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing Hewlett Packard Enterprise's businesses; the competitive pressures faced by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's businesses; risks associated with executing Hewlett Packard Enterprise's strategy; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the need to manage third-party suppliers and the distribution of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's products and the delivery of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's services effectively; the protection of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties and intellectual property shared with its former Parent; risks associated with Hewlett Packard Enterprise's international operations; the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its suppliers, customers, clients and partners; the hiring and retention of key employees; integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; and the execution, timing and results of any transformation or restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions related to the cost (including any possible disruption of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's business) and the anticipated benefits of the transformation and restructuring plans; the effects of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and related guidance and regulations that may be implemented; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the items discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part I of this report and that are otherwise described or updated from time to time in Hewlett Packard Enterprise's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hewlett Packard Enterprise assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business We are a global technology leader focused on developing intelligent solutions that allow customers to capture, analyze and act upon data seamlessly from edge to cloud. We enable customers to accelerate business outcomes by driving new business models, creating new customer and employee experiences, and increasing operational efficiency today and into the future. Our legacy dates back to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard, and we strive every day to uphold and enhance that legacy through our dedication to providing innovative technological solutions to our customers. On November 1, 2015, HP Inc. ("former Parent"), formerly known as Hewlett-Packard Company ("HPE Co.") spun-off Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company ("we", "us", "our", "Hewlett Packard Enterprise", "HPE", or "the Company") pursuant to a separation agreement (the "Separation and Distribution Agreement") (collectively the "Separation"). To effect the spin-off, HP Inc. distributed all of the shares of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company ("HPE") common stock owned by HP Inc. to its stockholders on November 1, 2015. Holders of HP Inc. common stock received one share of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company stock for every share of HP Inc. stock held as of the record date. As a result of the Separation, we now operate as an independent, publicly-traded company. Separation Transactions On April 1, 2017, we completed the separation and merger of our Enterprise Services business with Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC) (collectively, the Everett Transaction). The Everett Transaction was accomplished by a series of transactions among CSC, HPE, Everett SpinCo, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of HPE) (Everett), and New Everett Merger Sub Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Everett (Merger Sub). We transferred the Enterprise Services business to Everett and distributed all of the shares of Everett to HPE stockholders. Following the distribution of shares, the Merger Sub merged with and into CSC, which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Everett. At the time of the merger, Everett changed its name to DXC Technology Company (DXC). On September 1, 2017, we completed the separation and merger of our Software business segment with Micro Focus International plc (Micro Focus) (collectively, the Seattle Transaction). The Seattle Transaction was accomplished by a series of transactions among HPE, Micro Focus, Seattle SpinCo, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of HPE) (Seattle), and Seattle MergerSub, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Micro Focus (Merger Sub). We transferred the Software business to Seattle and distributed all of the shares of Seattle to HPE stockholders. Following the distribution of shares, the Merger Sub merged with and into Seattle which became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Micro Focus. With the completion of the Everett and Seattle Transactions, we have reclassified the historical financial results of our former Enterprise Services segment ("former ES segment") and our former Software segment to Net loss from discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings, and to assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. HPE Next During the third quarter of fiscal 2017, we launched an initiative called HPE Next, through which we are in the process of putting in place a purpose-built company designed to compete and win in the markets where we participate. Through this initiative, we are simplifying our operating model and the way we work, streamlining our offerings and business processes to improve our execution. More importantly, we will continue to shift our investments in innovation towards high growth and higher margin solutions and services. This initiative includes consolidating our manufacturing and support services locations, streamlining our business systems and reducing the number of countries in which we have a direct sales presence, while simultaneously migrating to a channel-only model in the remaining countries. The HPE Next initiative is expected to be implemented through fiscal 2020. During this time, we expect to incur expenses for workforce reductions, to upgrade and simplify our IT infrastructure, and for other non-labor actions. These costs will be partially offset by proceeds received from real estate sales. Our Strategy HPEs strategy is to accelerate our customers enterprises from edge to cloud, helping them connect all of their data, edge and cloud environments. Our capabilities focused on technology, people and economics will enable our customers' digital transformation. 2 Table of Contents First, we are focused on the transformation of our customers technology for an edge-centric, cloud-enabled, data-driven world. We help our customers create a software-defined, hybrid operating model that spans any cloud to multi-cloud, on and off-premises and the edge so they can create and deliver everything-as-a-service dynamically, everywhere. Second is transformation of our customers' people and processes by creating a culture of growth and innovation. The hardest part of any digital transformation involves people, their skills, processes and culture. Thats why we built a new kind of services organization with HPE Pointnext to help our customers at every step of their unique journey. HPE Pointnext draws on the expertise of approximately 22,000 specialists worldwide to support customers across Operational Services and Advisory and Professional Services. These teams collaborate with businesses worldwide to speed their adoption of emerging technologies, including cloud computing and hybrid IT, big data and analytics, the intelligent edge, and the Internet of Things ("IoT"). Third is transformation of our customers economics and technology investment strategy. One of the most underappreciated aspects of any digital transformation is our customers financial strategy. Capital trapped in underutilized fixed assets is a barrier to speed and innovation. With HPE Financial Services we provide the right strategies and as-a-service consumption models to optimize IT investments. Our Business Segments, Products and Services We organize our business into the following four segments: Hybrid IT provides a broad portfolio of services-led and software-enabled infrastructure and solutions including secure, software-defined servers, storage, data center networking and HPE Pointnext services, thereby combining HPE's hardware, software and services capabilities to make Hybrid IT simple for its customers. Intelligent Edge is comprised of enterprise networking and security solutions for businesses of any size, offering secure connectivity for campus and branch environments, operating under the Aruba brand. Financial Services ("FS") enables flexible IT consumption models, financial architectures and customized investment solutions for our customers. Corporate Investments includes Hewlett Packard Labs and certain business incubation projects. A summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments can be found in Note 3, "Segment Information", to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. A discussion of certain factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Hybrid IT Hybrid IT provides a broad portfolio of services-led and software-enabled infrastructure and solutions including secure, software-defined servers, storage, data center networking and HPE Pointnext services, thereby combining HPE's hardware, software and services capabilities to make Hybrid IT simple for its customers. Described below are the business units capabilities within Hybrid IT. Hybrid IT Product includes Compute, Storage, and Data Center Networking ("DC Networking"). Compute. We offer both Industry Standard Servers ("ISS"), which are general purpose servers for multi-workload computing, as well as Mission Critical Servers ("MCS"), which are servers optimized for particular workloads, to address the full array of the customers' computing needs. Our general purpose servers include the HPE ProLiant, secure and versatile rack and tower servers; HPE BladeSystem, a modular infrastructure that converges server, storage and networking; and HPE Synergy, a composable infrastructure for traditional and cloud-native applications. Our workload optimized server portfolio includes the HPE Apollo for high performance computing and artificial intelligence, HPE Cloudline for cloud data centers, HPE Edgeline for computing at the network edge, HPE Integrity for mission-critical applications, and HPE SimpliVity, a hyper-converged platform for virtualization. Storage. With storage offerings that are AI-driven and built for cloud environments with as-a-service consumption and flexible investment options, HPE provides the right workload optimized destinations for data. Powered by HPE InfoSight advanced analytics and machine learning and HPE Cloud Volumes data mobility, HPE delivers intelligent storage for hybrid cloud environments so that customers can unlock datas full potential and derive business insights. Key solutions include HPE 3PAR Storage and HPE Nimble Storage all-flash arrays for mission critical workloads and general purpose workloads, respectively, and big data solutions running on HPE Apollo Servers. Storage also provides comprehensive data protection with 3 Table of Contents HPE StoreOnce and HPE Recovery Manager Central, solutions for secondary workloads and traditional tape, storage networking and disk products, such as HPE MSA and HPE XP. DC Networking. Our offerings include top-of-rack switches, core switches, and open networking switches. We offer a full stack of networking solutions that deliver open, scalable, secure and agile solutions, by enabling programmable fabric, network virtualization, and network management products. HPE Pointnext creates preferred IT experiences that power the digital business. The HPE Pointnext team and our extensive partner network provide value across the IT life cycle delivering advice, transformation projects, professional services, support services and operational services for Hybrid IT and the Intelligent Edge. HPE Pointnext is also a provider of on-premises flexible consumption models, such as HPE GreenLake, that enable IT agility, simplify operations and align cost to business value. HPE Pointnext offerings includes Operational Services, Advisory and Professional Services, and Communication and Media Solutions ("CMS"). Intelligent Edge The Intelligent Edge business is comprised of enterprise networking and security solutions for businesses of any size, offering secure connectivity for campus and branch environments, operating under the Aruba brand. The primary business drivers for Intelligent Edge solutions are mobility and IoT. HPE Aruba Product includes wired and wireless local area network hardware products such as Wi-Fi access points, switches, routers, sensors, and software products that include network management, network access control, analytics and assurance, and location services software . HPE Aruba Services offers professional and support services for the Intelligent Edge portfolio of products. Financial Services Financial Services provides flexible investment solutions, such as leasing, financing, IT consumption, and utility programs and asset management services, for customers that facilitate unique technology deployment models and the acquisition of complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services from Hewlett Packard Enterprise and others. In order to provide flexible services and capabilities that support the entire IT life cycle, FS partners with customers globally to help build investment strategies that enhance their business agility and support their business transformation. FS offers a wide selection of investment solution capabilities for large enterprise customers and channel partners, along with an array of financial options to SMBs and educational and governmental entities. Corporate Investments Corporate Investments includes Hewlett Packard Labs and certain business incubation projects. Our Strengths We believe that we possess a number of competitive advantages that distinguish us from our competitors, including: Strong solutions portfolio for the data center, cloud and intelligent edge . We combine our software-defined infrastructure and services capabilities to provide what we believe is the strongest portfolio of enterprise solutions in the IT industry. Our ability to deliver a comprehensive IT strategy-from the cloud to the data center to the intelligent edge, through our high-quality products and high-value consulting and support services in a single package-is one of our principal differentiators. Multi-year innovation roadmap . We have been in the technology and innovation business for over 75 years. Our vast intellectual property portfolio and global research and development capabilities are part of a broader innovation roadmap designed to help organizations take advantage of the expanding amount of data available and leverage the latest technology developments like cloud, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity to drive business outcomes now and in the future. Global distribution and partner ecosystem . We are experts in delivering innovative technological solutions to our customers in complex multi-country, multi-vendor and/or multi-language environments. We have one of the largest go-to-market capabilities in our industry, including a large ecosystem of channel partners, which enables us to market and deliver our product offerings to customers located virtually anywhere in the world. Custom financial solutions . We have developed innovative financing solutions and IT consumption models to facilitate the delivery of our products and services to our customers. We deliver flexible investment solutions and expertise that help customers and other partners create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs. 4 Table of Contents Experienced leadership team with track record of successful performance . Our management team has an extensive track record of performance and execution. We are led by our President and Chief Executive Officer, Antonio Neri, who has proven experience in developing transformative business models, building global brands and driving sustained growth and expansion in the technology industry. Mr. Neri's experience includes over 20 years combined at HPE and HP Co. in various leadership positions. Our senior management team has many years of experience in our industry and possesses extensive knowledge of and experience in the enterprise IT business and the markets in which we compete. Moreover, we have a deep bench of management and technology talent that we believe provides us with an unparalleled pipeline of future leaders and innovators. Sales, Marketing and Distribution We manage our business and report our financial results based on the segments described above. Our customers are organized by commercial and large enterprise groups, including business and public sector enterprises, and purchases of our products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by us or indirectly through a variety of partners, including: resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer groups; distribution partners that supply our solutions to resellers; original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products and services with their own products and services, and sell the integrated solution; independent software vendors that provide their clients with specialized software products and often assist us in selling our products and services to clients purchasing their products; systems integrators that provide expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions and often partner with us to extend their expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and typically partner with us on client solutions that require our unique products and services. The mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts accordingly. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our coverage, in addition to identifying efficiencies and productivity gains, in both our direct and indirect businesses. For example, through our HPE Next initiative, we are in the process of reducing the number of countries in which we have a direct sales presence, while simultaneously migrating to a channel-only model in the remaining countries. We typically assign an account manager to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise. For other customers and for consumers, our businesses collaborate to manage relationships with commercial resellers targeting SMBs where appropriate. Manufacturing and Materials We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers around the world to manufacture products that we design. The use of outsourced manufacturers is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for our products as well as maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, third-party OEMs produce products that we purchase and resell under our brand. In addition to our use of outsourced manufacturers, we currently manufacture a limited number of finished products from components and subassemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. To generate further cost efficiencies, through our HPE Next initiative, we will reduce the number of our manufacturing locations. Historically, we have utilized two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customer's particular hardware and software customization requirements. To streamline and simplify our operations and reduce our costs, through our HPE Next initiative, we will reduce the number of active configurations that we will sell to our customers. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both, building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing shortly before the sale or distribution of products to our customers. We purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such alternate sources of supply are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for certain customized parts (although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations in the 5 Table of Contents event of a disruption). We are dependent upon Intel and AMD as suppliers of x86 processors; however, we believe that disruptions with these suppliers would result in industry-wide dislocations and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. Like other participants in the IT industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our demand requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we may experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources due to certain events taking place where our suppliers are geographically concentrated. When necessary, we are often able to obtain scarce components for somewhat higher prices on the open market, which may have an impact on our gross margin, but does not generally disrupt production. We may also acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints, or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. See "Risk FactorsWe depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers properly." International Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis for our customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset geographic economic trends, and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. A summary of our domestic and international results is set forth in Note 3, "Segment Information", to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Approximately 67% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2018 came from outside the United States. For a discussion of certain risks attendant to our international operations, see "Risk FactorsDue to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition," and "We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates" in Item 1A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk" in Item 7A and Note 14, "Financial Instruments", to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, which are incorporated herein by reference. Research and Development Innovation is a key element of our culture and critical to our success. Our research and development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers' experiences. Expenditures for research and development were $1.7 billion in fiscal 2018, $1.5 billion in fiscal 2017 and $1.7 billion in fiscal 2016. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products, services and solutions to maintain and enhance our competitive position. For a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see "Risk FactorsIf we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer" in Item 1A. Patents Our general policy is to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At present, our worldwide patent portfolio includes approximately 16,000 issued and pending patents. Patents generally have a term of up to 20 years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to our company as a whole or to any of our business segments. In addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses and other rights under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. 6 Table of Contents For a discussion of risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "Risk FactorsOur financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend" and "Our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties" in Item 1A. Backlog We believe that our backlog is not a meaningful indicator of our future business prospects due to our diverse product and service portfolio, including the large volume of products delivered from finished goods or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our overall business. Seasonality General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our products, services and solutions experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months. See Item 1A, "Risk FactorsOur uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable." Competition We have a broad technology portfolio of enterprise IT infrastructure products, solutions and services. We encounter strong competition in all areas of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our IT infrastructure offerings. The markets in which we compete are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. Most product life cycles are relatively short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, continuously enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above, among others. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and market their products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships is critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. The competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below: Hybrid IT operates in the highly competitive data center infrastructure market, which is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. Our primary competitors include technology vendors such as Dell Technologies Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., NetApp, Inc., Lenovo Group Ltd., International Business Machines Corporation, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., Amazon.com, Inc., Oracle Corporation, Fujitsu Limited, Juniper Networks, Inc., Inspur Co., Ltd., Hitachi Ltd., Extreme Networks, Inc., Pure Storage, Inc., VMware, Nutanix, Inc., Google Inc., and Rackspace Inc. In certain regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically branded or "white-box" manufacturers. Our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. Intelligent Edge operates in the highly competitive networking and connectivity infrastructure market, which is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. Our primary competitors include technology vendors such as Cisco Systems, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., Aerohive Networks, Inc., Fortinet, Inc., Ruckus Wireless, Inc., Arista Networks, Inc., Dell Technologies Inc., and Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. Our strategy is to deliver superior enterprise wired and wireless local-area networking components and software, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. Financial Services. In our financing business, our competitors are captive financing companies, such as IBM Global Financing, as well as banks and other financial institutions. We believe our competitive advantage over banks and other financial institutions in our financing business is our ability to deliver flexible investment solutions and expertise that help customers and other partners create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs. 7 Table of Contents For a discussion of certain risks attendant to these competitive environments, see "Risk FactorsWe operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance" in Item 1A. Environment Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local, and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. Many of our products are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products and in some cases, laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances. Some of our products and services also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements applicable to their energy consumption. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to recycling and reuse of materials as part of the transition to a circular economy, the chemical and materials composition of our products, appropriate product packaging and labeling, their safe use and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating to climate change. We are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including servers and networking equipment, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). In the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions and we could face other sanctions, including fines. Our operations, services and ultimately our products are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations and international treaties relating to climate change. As these laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that our technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with related laws, regulations and treaties. We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services, and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. We meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services. Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations, services or products will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. Employees We had approximately 60,000 employees as of October 31, 2018. Additional Information Intel, Itanium, and Intel Itanium are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries. AMD is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Executive Officers The following are our current executive officers: Antonio Neri; age 51; President and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Neri has served as President and Chief Executive Officer at Hewlett Packard Enterprise since June 2017 and February 2018, respectively. Prior to that, Mr. Neri served as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Group from November 2015 to June 2017. Prior to that, Mr. Neri served as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Group at HP Co. from October 2014 to November 2015. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Servers business unit from September 2013 to October 2014 and concurrently as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Networking business unit from May 2014 to October 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Neri served as Senior Vice 8 Table of Contents President and General Manager of the HP Technology Services business unit from August 2011 to September 2013 and as Senior Vice President, Customer Services for the HP Personal Systems Group from 1995 until August 2011. From March 2012 to February 2013, Mr. Neri served as a director of MphasiS Limited, a technology company. Philip Davis; age 51; Chief Sales Officer and President, Hybrid IT Mr. Davis has served as the Chief Sales Officer and President of Hybrid IT of Hewlett Packard Enterprise since November 2017 and August 2018, respectively. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Davis served as Senior Vice President and Regional Managing Director of HPEs Enterprise Group in the Asia Pacific Japan region, from November 2016 to October 2017. From November 2015 to October 2016, Mr. Davis served as Vice President and General Manager, Storage of HPEs Enterprise Group in the Asia Pacific Japan region. Prior to that, Mr. Davis served in a similar role at HP Co. from September 2014 to November 2015. Before joining HPE, Mr. Davis served as Vice President and General Manager of Dells Enterprise Solutions Group for Asia Pacific and Japan from January 2008 to September 2014. Kirt P. Karros; age 49; Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer Mr. Karros has served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer at Hewlett Packard Enterprise since November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Karros performed a similar role at HP Co. as well as leading Investor Relations from May 2015 to October 2015. Previously, Mr. Karros served as a Principal and Managing Director of Research for Relational Investors LLC, an investment fund, from 2001 to May 2015. Mr. Karros served as a director of PMC-Sierra, a semiconductor company, from August 2013 to May 2015. Alan May; age 60; Executive Vice President, Human Resources Mr. May has served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources at Hewlett Packard Enterprise since June 2015. Before joining Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Mr. May served as Vice President, Human Resources at Boeing Commercial Aircraft, a division of The Boeing Company, from April 2013 to June 2015. Previously, Mr. May served as Vice President of Human Resources for Boeing Defense, Space and Security at Boeing from April 2011 to June 2015 and as Vice President, of Compensation, Benefits and Strategy at Boeing from August 2007 to April 2011. Keerti Melkote; age 48; President, Intelligent Edge Mr. Melkote has served as President of the Intelligent Edge division of HPE since January 2017. Previously, Mr. Melkote served as Chief Technology Officer of the Intelligent Edge division from May 2015 to December 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Melkote performed a similar role as Chief Technology Officer and Co-Founder of Aruba Networks from February 2009 until HPEs acquisition of Aruba Networks in May 2015. Previously, Mr. Melkote served as Co-Founder and Vice President of Products at Aruba Networks from February 2002 to January 2009. Jeff T. Ricci; age 57; Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer Mr. Ricci has served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer at Hewlett Packard Enterprise since November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Ricci performed a similar role at HP Co. from April 2014 to November 2015. Previously, Mr. Ricci served as Controller and Principal Accounting Officer at HP Co. on an interim basis from November 2013 to April 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Ricci served as Vice President of Finance for HP Co.'s Technology and Operations organization from May 2012 to November 2013. Mr. Ricci served as HP Co.'s Vice President of Finance for Global Accounts and HP Financial Services from March 2011 to May 2012 and Vice President of Finance for HP Software from March 2009 to March 2011. Tarek Robbiati; age 53; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Robbiati has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Hewlett Packard Enterprise since September 2018. Prior to that, Mr. Robbiati served as Chief Financial Officer of Sprint Corporation from August 2015 until February 2018. From January 2013 until August 2015, Mr. Robbiati served as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of FlexiGroup Limited in Australia. From December 2009 until December 2012, Mr. Robbiati was Group Managing Director and President of Telstra International Group in Hong Kong. From December 2009 until December 2012, Mr. Robbiati was Executive Chairman of Hong Kong CSL Limited (CSL), a subsidiary of Telstra Corporation Limited, and from July 2007 until May 2010, Mr. Robbiati served as the Chief Executive Officer of CSL in Hong Kong. Irv Rothman; age 71; President and CEO of HPE Financial Services 9 Table of Contents Mr. Rothman has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of HPE Financial Services (FS), the IT investment and financing subsidiary of Hewlett Packard Enterprise since May 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Rothman was President and Chief Executive Officer of Compaq Financial Services Corporation (CFS) from January 1997 to April 2002. John F. Schultz; age 54; Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Administrative Officer and Secretary Mr. Schultz has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Administrative Officer and Secretary of Hewlett Packard Enterprise since December 2017. Mr. Schultz previously served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Hewlett Packard Enterprise from November 2015 to December 2017. Prior to that, Mr. Schultz performed a similar role at HP Co. from April 2012 to November 2015. Previously, he served as Deputy General Counsel for Litigation, Investigations and Global Functions at HP Co. from September 2008 to April 2012. From March 2005 to September 2008, Mr. Schultz was a partner in the litigation practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, a law firm, where, among other clients, he supported HP Co. as external counsel on a variety of litigation and regulatory matters. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://investors.hpe.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors' committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Finance and Investment Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, Technology Committee, and Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee) and code of ethics entitled "Standards of Business Conduct" are also available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from: Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company Attention: Investor Relations 3000 Hanover Street Palo Alto, CA 94304 http://investors.hpe.com/financial/requested-printed-reports 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplemental Data" of this Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer. Our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of hardware, software and services as we deliver Hybrid IT solutions to our customers and power the intelligent edge that runs campus, branch and Internet of Things applications. To successfully execute this strategy, we must address business model shifts and optimize go-to-market execution by improving cost structure, aligning sales coverage with strategic goals, improving channel execution and strengthening our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, while continuing to pursue new product innovation that builds on our strategic capabilities in areas such as cloud and data center computing, software-defined networking, converged storage, high-performance compute, and wireless networking. Any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The process of developing new high-technology products, software, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. For example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain and protect appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. Any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. Our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. After we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. We operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our offerings. If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. We have a large portfolio of products and services and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products and services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product or service lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products and services. Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. Companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. In addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their 11 Table of Contents business with us. If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while simultaneously seeking to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. For example, our Storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards converged products and solutions, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. Financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. For example, the development of cloud-based solutions has reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. If we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer . In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. In order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. However, the products, services and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. If we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which could delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and profitability. In addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. Addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. If new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement. Moreover, some of our wholesale distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. Many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. 12 Table of Contents Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution channel partners. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. We must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. Distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. We also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. Our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to manage inventory and make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. Economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. Any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. Poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. Interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, and costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Further, ongoing U.S. federal government spending limits may limit demand for our products, services and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the U.S. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the United States, which could further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions. Sales outside the United States constituted approximately 67% of our net revenue in fiscal 2018. Our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, including uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions caused by the United Kingdoms vote to exit the European Union; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors, or federal and state tax reforms; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), or changes to immigration and labor law policies which may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent; managing our geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; 13 Table of Contents difficulties associated with repatriating earnings in restricted countries, and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. The factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States. For example, we rely on suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the "FCPA"). Although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro, the British pound, Chinese yuan (renminbi) and the Japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in U.S. dollars. Currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. From time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. The effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. We may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. In addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. Our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our historical results. Our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. Delays or reductions in IT spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. In addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses, may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. Competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. Variations in fixed cost structure and gross margins across business units and product portfolios may lead to significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. Market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. Moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers properly. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. Given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. In addition, our ongoing efforts to 14 Table of Contents optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. Furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. Other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below. Component shortages. We may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues, or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. Accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. Excess supply. In order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Contractual terms. As a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. If we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. Any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Contingent workers. We also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. We have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. Our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. Single-source suppliers. We obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. New products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. Replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. For some components, such as customized components, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. The performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. The loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by natural or human induced disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, power or water shortages, telecommunications failures, and medical epidemics or pandemics. We are predominantly self-insured to mitigate the impact of most catastrophic events. However, a changing climate may aggravate natural disasters that affect our worldwide business operations thereby compelling us to build additional resiliency in order to mitigate impact. The occurrence of business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our 15 Table of Contents costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in California, which has suffered from drought conditions and catastrophic wildfires affecting the health and safety of our employees. Other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. In addition, our principal worldwide IT data centers are located in the southern United States, making our operations more vulnerable to climate-related natural disasters, such as 2017 hurricane Harvey, which caused severe damage in Houston. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the Czech Republic, Mexico, China and Singapore. We also rely on major logistics hubs, primarily in Asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern United States to import products into the Americas region. Our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, IT system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near vulnerable locations is continuing to be assessed . Our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. In some of our businesses, our quarterly sales have periodically reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. Alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled. Depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. For example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the U.S. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. European sales are often weaker during the summer months. Typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. Changes in U.S. trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The U.S. government has adopted a new approach to trade policy and in some cases to renegotiate, or potentially terminate, certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements. It has also imposed tariffs on certain foreign goods, including information and communication technology products. These measures may materially increase costs for goods imported into the United States. This in turn could require us to materially increase prices to our customers which may reduce demand, or, if we are unable to increase prices, result in lowering our margin on products sold. Changes in U.S. Trade policy have resulted in, and could result in more, U.S. trading partners adopting responsive trade policy making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. Any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). For example, in April 2017, we acquired Nimble Storage, Inc., which provides predictive all-flash and hybrid-flash storage solutions. In May 2016, we completed the sale to Tsinghua Holdings Co., Ltd. ("Tsinghua"), the asset management arm of Tsinghua University in China, of a 51% interest in our wholly owned subsidiary that owns and operates H3C Technologies and our China-based server, storage and technology services businesses for approximately $2.6 billion. On April 1, 2017 and September 1, 2017, we spun off our Enterprise Services and Software businesses, respectively. See also the risk factors below under the heading Risks Related to the Separations of our Former Enterprise Services Business and our Former Software Segment. Risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: 16 Table of Contents Managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. We may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third parties or market trends. Certain previous business combination and investment transactions have resulted, and in the future any such transactions by us may result, in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. Our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. Our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies. The pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. In order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. We may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. Our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. An announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. Business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. As part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. In addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. After reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other 17 Table of Contents financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. Integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. Any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. In order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. Integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. The challenges involved in integration include: successfully combining product and service offerings, including under the single new Hewlett Packard Enterprise brand, and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish customer service standards or business focus; persuading customers and distributors to not defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate IT infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-U.S. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards,