Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to Oaktree Acquisition Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on April 9, 2019 as a Cayman Islands exempted company for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination) that we have not yet identified. Although we are not limited to a particular industry or geographic region for purposes of consummating our Business Combination, we intend to capitalize on the ability of our management team to identify, acquire and manage a business in the industrial and consumer sectors. Our sponsor is Oaktree Acquisition Holdings, L.P., a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership (our Sponsor). Our registration statement for our initial public offering (the Initial Public Offering) was declared effective on July 17, 2019. On July 22, 2019, we consummated our Initial Public Offering of 20,125,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A ordinary shares included in the Units being offered, the Public Shares), including 2,625,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments (the Over-Allotment Units), at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $201.25 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $11.8 million, inclusive of approximately $7.04 million in deferred underwriting commissions. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (the Private Placement) of 4,016,667 warrants (each, a Private Placement Warrant and collectively, the Private Placement Warrants) at a price of $1.50 per Private Placement Warrant with our Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of approximately $6.03 million. Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement, $201.25 million ( $10.00 per Unit) of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and certain of the proceeds of the Private Placement was placed in a trust account (the Trust Account), located in the United States at J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, and was invested in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), with a maturity of 185 days or less, or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund selected by the Company meeting the conditions of paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3) and (d)(4) of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by the Company, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the assets held in the Trust Account as described below. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of our Initial Public Offering, or July 22, 2021 (the Combination Period), we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up; (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to us to fund our regulatory compliance requirements and other costs related thereto and/or to pay our income taxes, if any, (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses) divided by the number of the then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish Public Shareholders rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any); and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining shareholders and our board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), to our obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception through June 30, 2019 related to our formation and the preparation for the Initial Public Offering. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the period from April 9, 2019 (inception) through June 30, 2019, we had a net loss of approximately $16,600, which consists solely of general and administrative expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity needs have been satisfied prior to the completion of our Initial Public Offering through receipt of a $25,000 capital contribution from our Sponsor in exchange for the issuance of the Founder Shares to our Sponsor and the advancement of funds by our Sponsor to cover our expenses in connection with the Initial Public Offering. As of June 30, 2019, our Sponsor advanced approximately $57,000 to us. We have not repaid this advance from our Sponsor. Subsequent to the consummation of our Initial Public Offering, our liquidity needs have been satisfied through the net proceeds of approximately $2.0 million from the Private Placement held outside of the Trust Account. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required (Working Capital Loans). As of June 30, 2019, there were no amounts outstanding under any Working Capital Loan. Contractual Obligations Underwriting Agreement We granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of the final prospectus relating to the Initial Public Offering to purchase up to 2,625,000 Over-Allotment Units to cover over-allotments, if any, at the Initial Public Offering price less the underwriting discounts and commissions. On July 22, 2019, the underwriters fully exercised their over-allotment option. The underwriters were entitled to underwriting discounts of $0.20 per unit, or $4.025 million in the aggregate, paid upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering. In addition, $0.35 per unit, or approximately $7.04 million in the aggregate, will be payable to the underwriters for deferred underwriting commissions. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Administrative Support Agreement Commencing on the effective date of the Initial Public Offering, we agreed to pay our Sponsor a total of $10,000 per month for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support. Upon completion of the initial Business Combination or our liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. 15 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Deferred offering Costs Associated with the Initial Public Offering Deferred offering costs consist of legal, accounting, underwriting fees and other costs incurred through the date of the financial statements that are directly related to the Initial Public Offering, and were charged to shareholders equity upon the completion of the Initial Public Offering in July 2019. Net Loss Per Ordinary Share Net loss per share is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. At June 30, 2019, the Company did not have any dilutive securities and other contracts that could, potentially, be exercised or converted into ordinary shares and then share in the earnings of the Company. As a result, diluted loss per share is the same as basic loss per share for the period presented. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Our management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act On April 5, 2012, the JOBS Act was signed into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We will qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act will be allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As such, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates.