Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to Oaktree Acquisition Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on April 9, 2019 as a Cayman Islands exempted company for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses that we have not yet identified. Although we are not limited to a particular industry or geographic region for purposes of consummating our Business Combination, we intend to capitalize on the ability of our management team to identify, acquire and manage a business in the industrial and consumer sectors. Our sponsor is Oaktree Acquisition Holdings, L.P., a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of warrants that occurred simultaneously with the consummation of the initial public offering, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. The issuance of additional shares in a business combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in our initial public offering, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B ordinary shares resulted in the issuance of Class A ordinary shares on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of the Class B ordinary shares; may subordinate the rights of holders of our ordinary shares if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our ordinary shares; could cause a change in control if a substantial number of our ordinary shares is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the stock ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A ordinary shares and/or warrants. Similarly, if we issue debt or otherwise incur significant debt, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares; 18 using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our ordinary shares if declared, our ability to pay expenses, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, and fund other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, and execution of our strategy; and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. As of September 30, 2020, we had approximately $1.3 million in our operating bank account. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete our initial business combination will be successful. Our registration statement for our initial public offering was declared effective on July 17, 2019. On July 22, 2019, we consummated our initial public offering of 20,125,000 units, including 2,625,000 additional units to cover over-allotments, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $201.25 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $11.9 million, inclusive of approximately $7.04 million in deferred underwriting commissions. Simultaneously with the closing of the initial public offering, we consummated the private placement of 4,016,667 private placement warrants at a price of $1.50 per private placement warrant with our sponsor, generating gross proceeds of approximately $6.03 million. Upon the closing of the initial public offering and the private placement, $201.25 million ($10.00 per Unit) of the net proceeds of the initial public offering and certain of the proceeds of the private placement was placed in a trust account, located in the United States at J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, and was invested in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), with a maturity of 185 days or less, or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund selected by the company meeting the conditions of paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3) and (d)(4) of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by the company, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the assets held in the trust account as described below. If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of our initial public offering, or July 22, 2021, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up; (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the public shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, including interest earned on the funds held in the trust account and not previously released to us to fund our regulatory compliance requirements and other costs related thereto and/or to pay our income taxes, if any, (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses) divided by the number of the then outstanding public shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public shareholders rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any); and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining shareholders and our board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), to our obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. 19 Proposed Business Combination On September 30, 2020, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among the Company, Rx Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Merger Sub), and Hims, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Hims). The Merger Agreement provides for, among other things, the merger of Merger Sub with and into Hims, with Hims continuing as the surviving company, as further described in Note 1 to the financial statement included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The proposed transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2020, following the receipt of the required approval by the Companys shareholders and the fulfillment of other customary closing conditions. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception through September 30, 2020 related to our formation, the preparation for the initial public offering, and since the closing of the initial public offering, the search for a prospective initial business combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. We will not generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial business combination. We will generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and cash equivalents. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended September 30, 2020, we had a net loss of approximately $2.2 million, which consisted of approximately $81,000 in gain on investments (net), dividends and interest, held in the trust account, offset by approximately $2.3 million in general and administrative expenses. For the three months ended September 30, 2019, we had net income of approximately $436,000, which consisted of approximately $886,000 in gain on investments (net), dividends and interest, held in the Trust Account, offset by approximately $450,000 in general and administrative costs. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we had a net loss of approximately $1.0 million, which consisted of approximately $1.7 million in gain on investments (net), dividends and interest, held in the trust account, offset by approximately $2.7 million in general and administrative expenses For the period from April 9, 2019 (inception) through September 30, 2019, we had net income of approximately $419,000, which consisted of approximately $886,000 in gain on investments (net), dividends and interest, held in the Trust Account, offset by approximately $467,000 in general and administrative costs. Going Concern Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern, which contemplates, among other things, the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. As of September 30, 2020, we had approximately $1.3 million in our operating bank account, negative working capital of approximately $1.7 million, and approximately $3.2 million of interest income available in the trust account for Regulatory Withdrawals (subject to an annual limit of $325,000) and for our tax obligations, if any. We will use these funds to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a business combination. Our liquidity needs to date have been satisfied prior to the completion of the initial public offering through receipt of a $25,000 capital contribution from our sponsor in exchange for the issuance of the Founder Shares to our sponsor, the advancement of funds by our sponsor of approximately $62,000 to us to cover for offering costs in connection with the initial public offering, and the proceeds from the consummation of the private placement not held in the trust account. On November 18, 2019, we repaid the advance in full to our sponsor. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a business combination, our sponsor or an affiliate of our sponsor, or our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, provide us working capital loans. As of September 30, 2020, there were no amounts outstanding under any working capital loan. We continue to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the industry and has concluded that while it is reasonably possible that the virus could have a negative effect on our financial position, results of our operations and/or search for a target company, the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of these financial statements. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 20 In connection with our assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards Accounting Standards Updated (ASU) 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, management has determined that our liquidity position, mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should we be required to liquidate after July 22, 2021. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt obligations, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations, purchase obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay our sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, utilities and administrative support. Registration Rights The holders of founder shares, private placement warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of working capital loans, if any, be issued warrants upon conversion of working capital loans. These holders will be entitled to registration rights (in the case of the founder shares, only after conversion of such shares into Class A ordinary shares) pursuant to a registration and shareholder rights agreement to be entered into upon consummation of the initial public offering. These holders will be entitled to certain demand and piggyback registration and shareholder rights. However, the registration and shareholder rights agreement provides that we will not permit any registration statement filed under the Securities Act to become effective until the termination of the applicable lock-up period for the securities to be registered. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. In connection with the Proposed Business Combination, we also entered into the Parent Registration Rights Agreement pursuant to which the Sponsor will be granted certain customary registration rights with respect to its shares of New Hims Class A Common Stock. Underwriting Agreement We granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of the final prospectus relating to the initial public offering to purchase up to 2,625,000 units to cover over-allotments, if any, at the initial public offering price less underwriting discounts and commissions. On July 22, 2019, the underwriters fully exercised their over-allotment option. The underwriters were entitled to underwriting discounts of $0.20 per unit, or $4.025 million in the aggregate, paid upon the closing of the initial public offering. In addition, $0.35 per unit, or approximately $7.04 million in the aggregate will be payable to the underwriters for deferred underwriting commissions. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the trust account solely in the event that the company completes a business combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies This managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to fair value of financial instruments and accrued expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified the following as its critical accounting policies: Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A ordinary shares (including Class A ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the companys control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, 19,058,251 and 19,159,203 Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our balance sheets, respectively. 21 Net Income Per Ordinary Share Net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. We have not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the initial public offering and the private placement to purchase an aggregate of 10,725,000 of the companys Class A ordinary shares in the calculation of diluted income per share, since their inclusion would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. Our statement of operations includes a presentation of income per share for ordinary shares subject to redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income per share. Net income per ordinary share, basic and diluted for Class A ordinary shares are calculated by dividing the gain on investments (net), dividends and interest, held in the Trust Account of approximately $81,000 and $1.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, by the weighted average number of Class A ordinary shares outstanding for the period. Net loss per ordinary share for the three months ended September 30, 2020, basic and diluted for Class B ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net loss of approximately $2.2 million, less income attributable to Class A ordinary shares of approximately $81,000, resulted to a net loss of approximately $2.3 million, by the weighted average number of Class B ordinary shares outstanding for the quarter. Net loss per ordinary share for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, basic and diluted for Class B ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net loss of approximately $1.0 million, less income attributable to Class A ordinary shares of approximately $1.7 million, resulted to a net loss of approximately $2.7 million, by the weighted average number of Class B ordinary shares outstanding for the period. Net income per ordinary share, basic and diluted for Class A ordinary shares are calculated by dividing the interest income earned on investments and marketable securities held in the Trust Account, net of applicable taxes available to be withdrawn from the Trust Account, resulting in a total of approximately $886,000 for each of the three months ended September 30, 2019 and for the period from April 9, 2019 (inception) through September 30, 2019, respectively, by the weighted average number of Class A ordinary shares outstanding for the periods. Net loss per ordinary share, basic and diluted for Class B ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net income, less income attributable to Class A ordinary shares by the weighted average number of Class B ordinary shares outstanding for the periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Our management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act On April 5, 2012, the JOBS Act was signed into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act and are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We elected to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. As an emerging growth company, we are not required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis), and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our initial public offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier. 22