ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we, our, Hippo and the Company refer to the business and operations of Hippo Enterprises Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Business Combination and to Hippo Holdings Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries following the consummation of the Business Combination. You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview Hippo is a different kind of home protection company, built from the ground up to provide a higher standard of care and protection for homeowners. Our goal is to make homes safer and better protected so that customers spend less time worrying about the burdens of homeownership and more time enjoying their homes and their lives within. Harnessing real-time data, smart home technology, and a growing suite of home services, we have created an integrated home protection platform. The home insurance industry has long been defined by incumbents that we believe deliver a passive, high- friction experience to policyholders. We view these incumbents as constrained by outdated captive-agent distribution models, legacy technology, and strong incentives not to disrupt their businesses. Accordingly, the industry has not seen meaningful innovation in decades. We believe this results in a flawed customer experience that creates a transactional, adversarial relationshipone that pits insurance companies and their policyholders against each other in a zero-sum game. The outcome of this misalignment is an experience that is out of touch with the needs of modern homeowners. As a digital-first, customer-centric company, we offer an improved customer value proposition and are well-positioned to succeed in this growing market. By making our policies fast and easy to buy, designing coverages around the needs of modern homeowners, and offering a proactive, white-glove claims experience, we have created an active partnership with our customers to better protect their homes, which saves our customers money and is expected to deliver a better economic outcome for Hippo. Beyond a core insurance experience that is simple, intuitive, and human, we focus our resources on Hippos true promise: better outcomes for homeowners. Through our Smart Home program, customers may detect and address water, fire, and other issues before they become major losses. And we help our customers maintain their homes with on-demand maintenance advice and access to home check-ups designed to reduce the probability of future losses. In short, we have created an integrated home protection platform, which offers a growing suite of proactive features designed to prevent loss and provide greater peace of mind. Our partnership with our customers is designed to create a virtuous cycle. By making homes safer, we help deliver better risk outcomes and increase customer loyalty, which improves our unit economics and customer lifetime value (LTV). This enables us to invest in expanding our product offering, customer value proposition, and marketing programs, which help attract more customers to the Hippo family. This growth generates more data and insights to fuel further innovation in our product experience and improved underwriting precision. The result is even safer homes and more loyal customers. We believe this virtuous cycle, combined with our significant existing scale, deep partnerships, and compelling unit economics, will propel Hippo to become a trusted household name synonymous with home protection. 26 Reinsurance We utilize reinsurance primarily to support the growth of our new and renewal insurance business, to reduce the volatility of our earnings, and to optimize our capital management. As an MGA, we underwrite homeowners insurance policies on behalf of our insurance company subsidiaries (Spinnaker Insurance Company and Spinnaker Specialty Insurance Company) and other non-affiliated third-party insurance carriers. These carriers purchase reinsurance from a variety of sources and in a variety of structures. In the basic form of this arrangement, fronting insurance carriers will typically cede a significant portion of the total insurance premium they earn from customers, in return for a proportional amount of reinsurance protection. This is known as ceding premium and losses through a quota share reinsurance treaty. The fronting carrier and the MGA are paid a percentage of the ceded premium as compensation for sales and marketing, underwriting, insurance, support, claims administration, and other related services (in totality, known as a ceding commission). As additional protection against natural catastrophes or other large loss events, the fronting carrier frequently purchases additional, non-proportional reinsurance. Without reinsurance protection, the insurer would shoulder all of the insurance risk itself and would need incremental capital to satisfy regulators and rating agencies. Reinsurance allows a carrier to write more business while reducing its balance sheet exposure and volatility of earnings. Proportional Reinsurance Treaties Hippo For our primary homeowners reinsurance treaties we secured quota share reinsurance from a diverse panel of third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are either rated A- Excellent or better by AM Best, or are collateralized. During 2022 we retained approximately 10% of the premium through our insurance company subsidiaries, including our captive reinsurance company, RHS. Additionally, the reinsurance contracts are subject to variable commission adjustments and loss participation features, including loss ratio caps and loss corridors, which align our interests with those of our reinsurers. Loss participation features may increase the amount of losses retained by our insurance company subsidiaries in excess of our pro rata participation. We also seek to further reduce our risk retention through purchases of non-proportional reinsurance described below in the section titled Non-Proportional Reinsurance. Non-Proportional Reinsurance Hippo We also purchase non-proportional excess of loss (XOL) reinsurance. Through the Companys insurance company subsidiaries, the Company is exposed to the risk of natural catastrophe events that could occur on the risks arising from policies underwritten by the Company. Other Reinsurance Spinnaker purchases reinsurance for programs written by MGAs other than Hippo. The reinsurance treaties are a mix of proportional and XOL in which approximately 75% to 100% of the risk is ceded. The reinsurance contracts are subject to variable commission adjustments and loss participation features, including loss caps, and may increase the amount of losses retained by the Company in excess of our pro-rata participation. Such provisions are recognized in the period based on the experience to date under the agreement. Spinnaker also purchases a corporate catastrophe XOL program that attaches above the reinsurance programs protecting the business written by Hippo as well as the other MGAs. This treaty has a floating retention and attaches at the exhaustion point of the underlying programs specific reinsurance. This program provides protection to the Company from catastrophes that could impact a large number of insurance policies underwritten by the Company or other MGAs. We buy XOL so that the probability of losses from a single occurrence exceeding the protection purchased is no more than 0.4%, or equivalent to a 1 in 250 year return period. This reinsurance protects us from all but the most severe catastrophic events. 27 Fiscal Year 2023 Reinsurance Programs Proportional Reinsurance Treaties Hippo For our primary homeowners reinsurance treaty commencing in 2023, we secured proportional reinsurance from a diverse panel of six third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are either rated A- Excellent or better by AM Best, or the reinsurance is appropriately collateralized. In 2023, we expect to retain approximately 40% of the premium through our insurance company subsidiaries or our captive reinsurance company, RHS, before purchasing catastrophe protection. Additionally, the reinsurance contracts are subject to contingent commission adjustments and loss participation features, which align our interests with those of our reinsurers. Loss participation features may increase the amount of losses retained by our insurance company subsidiaries in excess of our pro rata participation. For business produced through our builder channel, we purchased proportional reinsurance from three third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are rated A- Excellent or better by AM Best, or the reinsurance is appropriately collateralized. In 2023, we expect to retain approximately 53% of the premium produced through our insurance company subsidiaries or RHS, before purchasing catastrophe protection. The reinsurance contracts are subject to contingent commission adjustments and limited loss participation features, which align our interests with those of the reinsurers. We also seek to further reduce our risk retention on both the primary homeowners treaty and the builder channel treaty through purchases of non-proportional reinsurance described below in the section titled Non-Proportional Reinsurance. Non-Proportional Reinsurance Hippo We also purchase non-proportional XOL reinsurance. Through our ownership of our insurance company subsidiaries, we are exposed to the risk of natural catastrophe events that could occur on the risks we are assuming from policies underwritten by us or other MGAs. We are also exposed to this risk through our captive reinsurer, which takes on a share of the risk underwritten by our MGA business. Our XOL program provides protection to us from catastrophes that could impact a large number of insurance policies. We buy XOL so that the probability of losses from a single occurrence exceeding the protection purchased is no more than 0.4%, or equivalent to a 1 in 250 year return period. This reinsurance protects us from all but the most severe catastrophic events. Key Factors and Trends Affecting our Operating Results Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and will continue to be, affected by a number of factors, including the following: Our Ability to Attract New Customers Our long-term growth will depend, in large part, on our continued ability to attract new customers to our platform. We intend to continue to drive new customer growth by highlighting our consumer-focused approach to homeowners insurance across multiple distribution channels. In particular: Our growth strategy is centered around accelerating our existing position in markets that we already serve by increasing our direct-to-consumer advertising, increasing the number of agents selling Hippo policies, and growing our network of partners within existing partner channels. In addition to efforts in states where we are currently selling insurance, we also expect to drive growth by expanding into new markets across the United States and by continuing to develop new strategic partnerships with key players involved in the real estate transaction ecosystem. 28 Finally, we plan to deepen our relationships with our customers by offering value-added services, both directly and through partners, that are not specifically insurance products, such as home maintenance, home monitoring, and home appliance warranties. Our ability to attract new customers depends on the pricing of our products, the offerings of our competitors, our ability to expand into new markets, and the effectiveness of our marketing efforts. Our ability to attract customers also depends on maintaining and strengthening our brand by providing superior customer experiences through our proactive, tech-enabled strategy. We face competition from traditional insurers who have more diverse product offerings and longer established operating histories, as well as from new, technology-driven entrants who may pursue more horizontal growth strategies. These competitors may mimic certain aspects of our digital platform and offerings and have more types of insurance products and can offer customers the ability to bundle multiple coverage types together, which may be attractive to many customers. Although the COVID-19 pandemic and the various responses to it have created significant worldwide volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption over the past few years, recently there has been a return to more normal societal interactions, including in the way we operate our business. We cannot predict the future impacts of this ongoing pandemic or any new pandemic(s). See Part I, Item IA. Risk Factors for more information. Our Ability to Retain Customers Our ability to derive significant lifetime value from our customer relationships depends, in part, on our ability to retain our customers over time. Strong retention allows us to build a recurring revenue base, generating additional premium term over term without material incremental marketing costs. Our customers typically become more valuable to us over time because retention rates have historically increased with the age of customer cohorts and because non-catastrophic loss frequency declines as cohorts mature. As we expect to broadly retain our customers, we expect our book of business to evolve to be weighted more towards renewals versus new business over time, as is the case with our more mature competitors. We expect that this would enable us to benefit from the higher premium retention rates and inherently lower frequency of losses that characterize renewed premiums. Our ability to retain customers will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our products, offerings of our competitors, and our ability to continue delivering exceptional customer service and support. Our Ability to Expand Nationally Across the United States We believe that national expansion will be a key driver of the long-term success of our business. As of March 31, 2023, we were authorized to sell Hippo Homeowners policies in 40 states. We expect to benefit from our ability to provide insurance across an increasing number of states in the United States. State expansion should create a broader base from which to grow while increasing the geographic diversity in our base of customers and premium. We expect that this greater diversity will reduce the impact of catastrophic weather events in any one geographic region on our overall loss ratio, improving the predictability of our financial results over time as we scale. We believe that increased geographic diversity will also improve our ability to secure attractive terms from reinsurers, which would improve our overall cost structure and profitability. Our Ability to Expand Fee Income and Premium Through Cross-Sales to Existing Customers Our strategy to increase the value we are providing to our customers is to offer incremental services to assist our customers in better maintaining and protecting their homes. As we roll out these services, we expect to be 29 able to generate incremental, non-risk-based service and fee income from our existing customers. We expect these home protection services not only to generate incremental revenue, but also to reduce losses for our customers, andby implicationour loss ratios. Our success in expanding revenue and reducing losses by offering these services depends on our ability to market these services, our operational ability to deliver value to our customers, and the ability of these services to reduce the probability of loss for an average homeowner. We are also in the early stages of cross-selling non-homeowner insurance products across our customer base. Cross-sales allow us to generate additional premium per customer, and ultimately higher revenue and fee income, without material incremental marketing spend. Our success in expanding revenue through cross-sales depends on our marketing efforts with new products, offerings of our competitors, additional expansion into new states, and the pricing of our bundled products. Our Ability to Manage Risk We leverage data, technology, and geographic diversity to help manage risk. For instance, we obtain dynamic data from various sources and use advanced statistical methods to model that data into our pricing algorithm. Incorporating these external data sources and utilizing the experience gained with our own customer base should lead to better underwriting, reduced loss frequency, andadjusting for weather related eventslower loss ratios over time. While our current reinsurance framework helps us manage the volatility of earnings, reducing our overall gross loss ratio is critical to our success. Our ability to incorporate new data sources as they become available and to use them to improve our ability to accurately and competitively price risk is central to our growth strategy. Seasonality of Customer Acquisition Seasonal patterns can impact both our rate of customer acquisition and the incurrence of claims losses. Based on historical experience, existing and potential customers move more frequently during the summer months of the year, compared to the rest of the calendar year. As a result, we may see greater demand for new or expanded insurance coverage, and increased engagement resulting in proportionately more growth during the third quarter. We expect that as we grow, expand geographically, and launch new products, the impact of seasonal variability on our rate of growth may decrease. Additionally, seasonal weather patterns impact the level and amount of claims we receive. These patterns include hurricanes, wildfires, and coastal storms in the fall, cold weather patterns and changing home heating needs in the winter, and tornados and hailstorms in the spring and summer. The mix of geographic exposure and products within our customer base impacts our exposure to these weather patterns, and as we diversify our base of premium such that our exposure more closely resembles the industry exposure, we should see the impact of these events on our business more closely resemble the impact on the broader industry. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Gross Written Premium Gross written premium is the amount received or to be received for insurance policies written or assumed by us and our affiliates as a carrier, without reduction for policy acquisition costs, reinsurance costs, or other deductions. In addition, gross written premium includes amounts received from our participation in our own reinsurance treaty. The volume of our gross written premium in any given period is generally influenced by: New business submissions; Binding of new business submissions into policies; Bound policies going effective; Renewals of existing policies; and 30 Average size and premium rate of bound policies. Ceded Written Premium Ceded written premium is the amount of gross written premium written or assumed by us and our affiliates as a carrier that we cede to reinsurers. We enter into reinsurance contracts to limit our exposure to losses, as well as to provide additional capacity for growth. Ceded written premium is treated as a reduction from gross written premium written during a specific period of time over the reinsurance contract period in proportion to the period of risk covered. The volume of our ceded written premium is impacted by the level of our gross written premium and decisions we make to increase or decrease retention levels. Net Earned Premium Net earned premium represents the earned portion of our gross written premium for insurance policies written or assumed by us and less the earned portion of ceded written premium (any portion of our gross written premium that is ceded to third-party reinsurers under our reinsurance agreements). We earn written premiums on a pro-rata basis over the term of the policies. Commission Income, Net Includes: a.MGA Commission: We operate as an MGA for multiple insurers. We design and underwrite insurance products on behalf of the insurers culminating in the sale of insurance policies. We earn recurring commission and policy fees associated with the policies we sell. We have underwriting authority and responsibility for administering claims (see Claim Processing Fees below) and, we work with affiliated and unaffiliated carrier platforms and a diversified panel of highly rated reinsurance companies who pay us commission in exchange for the opportunity to take that risk on their balance sheets. Our performance obligation associated with these contracts is the placement of the policy, which is met on the effective date. Upon issuance of a new policy, we charge policy fees and inspection fees (see Service and Fee Income below), retain our share of commission, and remit the balance to the respective insurers. Subsequent commission adjustments arising from policy changes such as endorsements are recognized in the period when the adjustments occur. The MGA commission is subject to adjustments, higher or lower (commonly referred to as commission slide), depending on the underwriting performance of the policies placed by us. We are required to return a portion of our MGA commission due to commission slide on the policies placed as an MGA if the underwriting performance varies due to higher Hippo programs loss ratio from provisional performance of the Hippo programs loss ratio. We also return a portion of our MGA commission if the policies are cancelled before the term of the policy. Accordingly, we reserve for commission slide using estimated Hippo programs loss ratio performance, or a cancellation reserve as a reduction of revenue for each period presented in our statement of operations and comprehensive loss. b.Agency Commission: We also operate licensed insurance agencies that are engaged solely in the sale of policies, including non-Hippo policies. For these policies, we earn a recurring agency commission from the carriers whose policies we sell, which is recorded in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Similar to the MGA businesses, the performance obligation from the agency contracts is placement of the insurance policies. For both MGA and insurance agency activities, we recognize commission received from insurers for the sale of insurance contracts as revenue at a point in time on the policy effective dates. Cash received in advance of policy effective dates is recorded on the consolidated balance sheets, representing our portion of commission and premium due to insurers and reinsurers, and we hold this cash in trust for the benefit of the insurers and reinsurers as fiduciary liabilities. c.Ceding Commission: We receive commission based on the premium we cede to third-party reinsurers for the reimbursement for our acquisition and underwriting services. Excess ceding commission over the cost of acquisition is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. For the policies that we write on our own carrier as MGA, we recognize this 31 commission as ceding commission on the statement of operations and comprehensive loss. We earn commission on reinsurance premium ceded in a manner consistent with the recognition of the earned premium on the underlying insurance policies, on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies reinsured. We record the portion of ceding commission income, which represents reimbursement of successful direct acquisition costs related to the underlying policies as an offset to the applicable direct acquisition costs. d.Carrier Fronting Fees: Through our insurance-as-a-service business, we earn fronting fees from the MGA programs we support. We earn fronting fees in a manner consistent with the recognition of the earned premium on the underlying insurance policies, on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. This revenue is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. e.Claim Processing Fees: As an MGA, we receive a fee that is calculated as a percent of the premium from the insurers in exchange for providing claims adjudication services. The claims adjudication services are provided over the term of the policy and recognized ratably over the same period. This revenue is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Service and Fee Income Service and fee income mainly represents policy fees and other revenue. We directly bill policyholders for policy fees and collect and retain fees per the terms of the contracts between us and our insurers. Similar to the commission revenue, we estimate a cancellation reserve for policy fees using historical information. The performance obligation associated with these fees is satisfied at a point in time upon completion of the underwriting process, which is the policy effective date. Accordingly, we recognize all fees as revenue on the policy effective date. Net Investment Income Net investment income represents interest earned from fixed maturity securities, short-term investments and other investments, and the gains or losses from the sale of investments. Our cash and invested assets primarily consist of investment grade fixed-maturity securities, and may also include cash and cash equivalents, equity securities, and short-term investments. The principal factors that influence net investment income are the size of our investment portfolio and the yield on that portfolio. As measured by amortized cost (which excludes changes in fair value, such as changes in interest rates), the size of our investment portfolio is mainly a function of our invested equity capital along with premium we receive from our customers less payments on customer claims. Net investment income also includes an insignificant amount of net realized gains (losses) on investments, which are a function of the difference between the amount received by us on the sale of a security and the securitys amortized cost, as well as any allowances for credit losses recognized in earnings, if any. Expenses Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses Loss and loss adjustment expenses represent the costs incurred for losses net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. We enter into reinsurance contracts to limit our exposure to potential losses as well as to provide additional capacity for growth. The expenses are a function of the size and term of the insurance policies and the loss experience and loss participation features associated with the underlying risks. Loss and LAE are based on actuarial assumptions and management judgements, including losses incurred during the period and changes in estimates from prior periods. Loss and LAE also include employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) of our claims processing teams, as well as allocated occupancy costs and related overhead based on headcount. Insurance Related Expenses Insurance related expenses primarily consist of amortization of direct acquisition commission costs and premium taxes incurred on the successful acquisition of business written on a direct basis and credit card processing fees not charged to our customers. Insurance related expenses also include employee compensation (including stock- 32 based compensation and benefits) of our underwriting teams, as well as allocated occupancy costs and related overhead based on headcount. Insurance related expenses are offset by a portion of ceding commission income, which represents reimbursement of successful acquisition costs related to the underlying policies. Additionally, insurance related expenses include the costs of providing bound policies and delivering claims services to our customers. These costs include underwriting technology service costs including software, data services used for performing underwriting, and third-party call center costs in addition to personnel-related costs. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for our technology staff, which includes technology development, infrastructure support, actuarial, and third-party services. Technology and development also include allocated facility costs and related overhead based on headcount. We expense development costs as incurred, except for costs related to internal-use software development projects, which are capitalized and subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the developed software. We expect our technology and development costs to increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development activities to achieve our technology development roadmap. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of sales commission, advertising costs, and marketing expenditures, as well as employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for employees engaged in sales, marketing, data analytics, and customer acquisition. Sales and marketing also include allocated facility costs and related overhead based on headcount. We plan to continue to invest in sales and marketing to attract and acquire new customers and to increase our brand awareness. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase over time as we continue to hire additional personnel to scale our business, increase commission payments to our producers and partners as a result of our premium growth, and invest in developing a nationally recognized brand. We expect that sales and marketing costs will increase in absolute dollars in future periods and vary from period-to-period as a percentage of revenue in the near-term. We expect thatin the long-termour sales and marketing costs will decrease as a percentage of revenue as we continue to drive customer acquisition efficiencies and as the proportion of renewals to our total business increases. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for our finance, human resources, legal, and general management functions, as well as facilities, insurance, and professional services. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we scale headcount with the growth of our business, and as a result of operating as a public company, including compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC and other regulatory bodies, legal, audit, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities, and other administrative and professional services. Interest and Other (Income) Expense Interest and other (income) expense after the Business Combination in August 2021 primarily consists of fair value adjustments on outstanding warrants. Prior to the Business Combination interest and other (income) expense primarily consisted of interest expense incurred for convertible promissory notes, fair value adjustments on preferred stock warrant liabilities, and fair value adjustments on the embedded derivative on our convertible promissory notes. Income Taxes We record income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we record deferred income tax assets and liabilities based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between the financial statement and income tax basis of existing assets and liabilities. We measure these differences using the enacted statutory tax rates that are expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which differences are expected to reverse. We recognize the effect on deferred income taxes of a change in tax rates in income in the period that includes the enactment date. 33 We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets and liabilities to the net amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations, and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Key Operating and Financial Metrics and Non-GAAP Measures We regularly review the following key operating and financial metrics in order to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends in our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. The non-GAAP financial measures below have not been calculated in accordance with GAAP and should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an indicator of our operating performance, liquidity, or cash flows generated by operating, investing, and financing activities, as there may be significant factors or trends that it fails to address. We caution investors that non-GAAP financial informationby its naturedeparts from traditional accounting conventions. Therefore, its use can make it difficult to compare our current results with our results from other reporting periods and with the results of other companies. Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures, in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as an integral part of managing our business and to, among other things: (i) monitor and evaluate the performance of our business operations and financial performance; (ii) facilitate internal comparisons of the historical operating performance of our business operations; (iii) review and assess the operating performance of our management team; (iv) analyze and evaluate financial and strategic planning decisions regarding future operating investments; and (v) plan for and prepare future annual operating budgets and determine appropriate levels of operating investments. Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 ($ in millions) Total Generated Premium $ 244.9 $ 153.7 Total Revenue 39.8 24.5 Net Loss attributable to Hippo (69.8) (67.6) Adjusted EBITDA (52.1) (48.5) Gross Loss Ratio 76 % 76 % Net Loss Ratio 273 % 250 % Total Generated Premium We define Total Generated Premium as the aggregate written premium placed across all of our business platforms for the period presented. We measure Total Generated Premium as it reflects the volume of our business irrespective of choices related to how we structure our reinsurance treaties, the amount of risk we retain on our own balance sheet, or the amount of business written in our capacity as an MGA, agency, or as an insurance carrier/reinsurer. We calculate Total Generated Premium as the sum of: i)Gross written premium (GWP)a GAAP measure defined above; and ii)Gross placed premiumpremium of policies placed with third-party insurance companies, for which we do not retain insurance risk and for which we earn a commission payment, and policy fees charged by us to the policyholders on the effective date of the policy. 34 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Change Gross Written Premium $ 189.5 $ 117.1 $ 72.4 Gross Placed Premium 55.4 36.6 $ 18.8 Total Generated Premium $ 244.9 $ 153.7 $ 91.2 Our Total Generated Premium for the three months ended March 31, 2023 grew 59% year-over-year to $244.9 million from $153.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The growth was driven primarily by continued growth across channels in existing states, expansion of our independent agent network, maintaining solid premium retention levels, expansion into new states, achieving planned premium rate increases, and growth of non-Hippo written premium supported by our Insurance-as-a-Service business. As of March 31, 2023, we were selling policies in 40 states as compared to 37 states as of March 31, 2022. Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (adjusted EBITDA), a Non-GAAP financial measure, as net loss attributable to Hippo excluding interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, net investment income, restructuring charges, impairment expense, other non-cash fair market value adjustments, contingent consideration for one of our acquisitions, and other transactions that we consider to be unique in nature. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, adjusted EBITDA loss was $52.1 million, an increase of $3.6 million compared to $48.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, due primarily to an increase in losses due primarily to named event Property Claims Services (PCS) catastrophic weather and other weather loss experience. These amounts were partially offset by an increase in revenues. The following table provides a reconciliation from net loss attributable to Hippo to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net loss attributable to Hippo $ (69.8) $ (67.6) Adjustments: Net investment income (5.4) (0.4) Depreciation and amortization 4.3 3.9 Stock-based compensation 16.1 13.4 Fair value adjustments 0.2 (1.2) Contingent consideration charge 0.8 3.2 Other one-off transactions 1.4 Income tax expense 0.3 0.2 Adjusted EBITDA $ (52.1) $ (48.5) 35 Gross Loss Ratio Gross Loss Ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the Gross Losses and LAE to the Gross Earned Premium (in millions). Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Gross Losses and LAE $ 126.3 $ 91.2 Gross Earned Premium 165.1 120.1 Gross Loss Ratio 76 % 76 % The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross Loss Ratio by PCS and non-PCS events. Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 PCS losses 25 % 19 % Non-PCS losses 51 % 57 % Gross loss ratio 76 % 76 % For the three months ended March 31, 2023, our Gross Loss Ratio was 76% net of a favorable development of 1 percentage point relating to PCS; compared with 76% net of a favorable development of 13 percentage points for Non-PCS and 6 percentage points for PCS for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Excluding the impact of reserve movements, our Gross Loss Ratio was 77% for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared with 95% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Net Loss Ratio Net loss ratio expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the net losses and LAE to the net earned premium (in millions). Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net Losses and LAE $ 37.7 $ 22.5 Net Earned Premium 13.8 9.0 Net Loss Ratio 273 % 250 % For the three months ended March 31, 2023, our Net Loss Ratio was 273% compared with 250% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in PCS catastrophic weather losses and other weather loss experience and our loss participation features. Segment Information 36 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 ($ in millions) Services Insurance-as-a-Service Hippo Home Insurance Program Intersegment Eliminations(1) Total Total Generated Premium $ 97.9 $ 104.0 $ 92.2 $ (49.2) $ 244.9 Total Revenue 9.8 12.9 19.3 (2.2) 39.8 Adjusted EBITDA (10.8) 3.2 (44.3) (0.2) (52.1) Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 ($ in millions) Services Insurance-as-a-Service Hippo Home Insurance Program Intersegment Eliminations(1) Total Total Generated Premium $ 75.9 $ 40.7 $ 79.0 $ (41.9) $ 153.7 Total Revenue 7.4 7.0 13.0 (2.9) 24.5 Adjusted EBITDA (11.4) 2.6 (39.7) (48.5) (1)Intersegment eliminations include commissions paid from Hippo Home Insurance Program for policies sold by the Companys Services segment (revenue, cost, and other adjustments in respective business units eliminated as part of consolidation). Intersegment eliminations also include premiums written between the segments. Segment Adjusted EBITDA is our primary segment profitability measure, and is calculated as segment revenue less operating expenses that are directly attributable to the segments. Refer to Note 16 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information on segments and a reconciliation of Segment Adjusted EBITDA to net loss attributable to Hippo. Services Our Services segment, which earns fees and/or commission income without assuming underwriting risk or need for reinsurance, had Total Generated Premium of $97.9 million, an increase of 29%, from $75.9 million over the prior year quarter, while revenue was $9.8 million, an increase of 32%, from $7.4 million over the prior year quarter. The growth was driven primarily by the growth in our builder channel. Our adjusted EBITDA loss was $10.8 million, a decrease of 5%, compared to a loss of $11.4 million in the prior year quarter. We continue to invest heavily in our platforms to provide differentiated services for our customers across all our businesses. Insurance-as-a-Service Our Insurance-as-a-Service segment, which through our carrier, Spinnaker, we leverage our capital and insurance licenses to provide capacity to third party MGAs, creating diversified income through fees, underwriting profits, and investment income. Total Generated Premium was $104.0 million, up 156%, from $40.7 million over the prior year quarter, while revenue was $12.9 million, an increase of 84%, from $7.0 million over the prior year quarter. The growth was driven primarily by the performance of both new and existing programs. Adjusted EBITDA was $3.2 million, an increase of 23%, compared to $2.6 million in the prior year quarter. Hippo Home Insurance Program (HHIP) Our Hippo Homeowners Insurance Program had Total Generated Premium of $92.2 million, an increase of 17%, from $79.0 million over the prior year quarter, while revenue was $19.3 million, an increase of 48%, from $13.0 million over the prior year quarter. The increases were due primarily to continued growth across channels in existing states, expansion into new states, and achieving planned premium rate increases, Adjusted EBITDA loss was $44.3 million in the quarter, an increase of 12%, compared to a loss of $39.7 million in the prior year quarter. 37 The increase in adjusted EBITDA loss was due primarily to increase in PCS catastrophic weather and other weather loss experience and our loss participation features, partially offset by an increase in revenues. Hippo Home Insurance Program Gross Loss Ratio Hippo Home Insurance Program Gross Loss Ratio (or HPGLR) is a key performance indicator that represents our underwriting operational performance for the entire Total Generated Premium underwritten by Hippo as part of the Hippo Home Insurance Program. This ratio includes losses and premiums written and placed on Spinnaker (our carrier) as well as other carriers for Hippo policies (policies underwritten by the Hippo MGA). For the periods presented, changes in this ratio also impact our ceding commission revenue and loss participation features in our reinsurance treaties, which is included in loss and loss adjusted expense on our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. This ratio is also used by our reinsurers and other carriers to make business decisions relating to the capacity of reinsurance and amount of ceding commission that would be available to Hippo. The lower the ratio, the better the economics for Hippo. Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Hippo Home Insurance Program Non-PCS 60 % 65 % PCS 41 % 34 % HPGLR 101 % 99 % HPGLR was 101% in the quarter, compared to 99% in the prior year quarter. Excluding the impact of reserve releases, HPGLR was 101% in the quarter, compared to 119% in the prior year quarter. Excluding the impact of reserve releases, the PCS component of HPGLR was 41% in the quarter, compared to 41% in the prior year quarter. The catastrophes in the quarter mainly represent the unusually heavy rains and snow in parts of California, our second largest market. Excluding the impact of reserve releases, the Non-PCS component of HPGLR was 60% in the quarter, compared to 78% in the prior year quarter, representing a decrease of 18 percentage points. The decrease reflects the benefits of the pricing and underwriting actions we took in calendar 2022. We expect continued improvement as these actions have more time to earn into our financial results. 38 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations data for the periods presented (in millions, except percent data): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Change % Change Revenue: Net earned premium $ 13.8 $ 9.0 $ 4.8 53 % Commission income, net 17.4 11.5 5.9 51 % Service and fee income 3.2 3.6 (0.4) (11) % Net investment income 5.4 0.4 5.0 1250 % Total revenue 39.8 24.5 15.3 62 % Expenses: Losses and loss adjustment expenses 37.7 22.5 15.2 68 % Insurance related expenses 15.8 13.2 2.6 20 % Technology and development 11.6 14.7 (3.1) (21) % Sales and marketing 22.4 24.9 (2.5) (10) % General and administrative 19.8 16.5 3.3 20 % Interest and other (income) expense 0.3 (1.0) 1.3 (130) % Total expenses 107.6 90.8 16.8 19 % Loss before income taxes (67.8) (66.3) (1.5) 2 % Income tax expense 0.3 0.2 0.1 50 % Net loss (68.1) (66.5) (1.6) 2 % Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of tax 1.7 1.1 0.6 55 % Net loss attributable to Hippo $ (69.8) $ (67.6) $ (2.2) 3 % Other comprehensive income: Change in net unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities, net of tax 1.7 (2.6) 4.3 (165) % Comprehensive loss attributable to Hippo $ (68.1) $ (70.2) $ 2.1 (3) % 39 Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 Net Earned Premium For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net earned premium was $13.8 million, an increase of $4.8 million compared to $9.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase was due primarily to increases in gross earned premium due to year-over-year growth of our total book of business and higher retention of earned premium, partially offset by an increased cost of XOL premiums for our catastrophic coverage which results in an increase in ceded earned premium and lower net earned premium. We purchased XOL to cover events in excess of per occurrence limits based on the expected growth in exposure during the year. The following table presents gross written premium, ceded written premium, net written premium, change in unearned premium, and net earned premium for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 (in millions). Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Change Gross written premium $ 189.5 $ 117.1 $ 72.4 Ceded written premium 168.2 116.5 51.7 Net written premium 21.3 0.6 20.7 Change in unearned premium (7.5) 8.4 (15.9) Net earned premium $ 13.8 $ 9.0 $ 4.8 Commission Income, Net For the three months ended March 31, 2023, commission income was $17.4 million, an increase of $5.9 million, or 51%, compared to $11.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due primarily to increased ceding commissions, including fronting fees, of $3.8 million, as well as increase in agency commissions of $1.6 million, both of which grew due to the year-over-year growth of our total book of business, net of variable commission provisions. Service and Fee Income For the three months ended March 31, 2023, service and fee income was $3.2 million, a decrease of $0.4 million, or 11%, compared to $3.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. In order to drive better loss ratio performance, we have tightened our underwriting thresholds which has had the effect of lowering the number of new policies requiring fee-generating inspections. Net Investment Income For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net investment income was $5.4 million, an increase of $5.0 million, compared to $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in yields and diversification. We are mainly invested in money market accounts, securities issued by the U.S. government and agencies, high-grade corporate securities, residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities, and other governmental related securities. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2023, loss and loss adjustment expenses were $37.7 million, an increase of $15.2 million, compared to $22.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in PCS catastrophic weather and other weather loss experience and our loss participation features. 40 Insurance Related Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2023, insurance related expenses were $15.8 million, an increase of $2.6 million, or 20%, compared to $13.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs of $1.4 million due to the growth of our business and an increase in amortization expense attributable to capitalized internal use software of $1.1 million. The primary components of insurance related expenses are listed below (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, net $ 6.0 $ 4.6 Employee-related costs 3.0 2.8 Underwriting costs 1.8 2.0 Amortization of capitalized internal use software 2.9 1.8 Other 2.1 2.0 Total $ 15.8 $ 13.2 Direct acquisition costs were $16.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, of which $10.3 million were offset by ceding commission income. Direct acquisition costs were $14.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, of which $9.6 million were offset by ceding commission income. Technology and Development Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2023, technology and development expenses were $11.6 million, a decrease of $3.1 million, or 21%, compared to $14.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in employee-related costs of $3.0 million, including a decrease in stock-based compensation of $2.7 million, driven by performance RSUs related to an acquisition fully vesting in the prior year. Sales and Marketing Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2023, sales and marketing expenses were $22.4 million, a decrease of $2.5 million, or 10%, compared to $24.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in advertising costs of $1.9 million. General and Administrative Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2023, general and administrative expenses were $19.8 million, an increase of $3.3 million, or 20%, compared to $16.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in stock-based compensation of $2.3 million, partially driven by a charge due to the repricing of options during the quarter. There was also an increase in facilities costs of $0.8 million. 41 Interest and Other (Income) Expense For the three months ended March 31, 2023, other expense was $0.3 million, an increase of $1.3 million compared to income of $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due primarily to changes in the fair market value on the outstanding Public and Private Placement Warrants of $1.4 million. Income Taxes For the three months ended March 31, 2023, income tax expense was $0.3 million, an increase of $0.1 million, compared to an expense of $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Net Loss Attributable to Hippo Net loss attributable to Hippois calculated in accordance with GAAP as total revenue less total expenses and taxes and net of net income attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net loss attributable to Hippo was $69.8 million, an increase of $2.2 million compared to $67.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 due to the factors described above. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our existing sources of liquidity include cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. As of March 31, 2023, we had $220.7 million of cash and restricted cash and $431.4 million of available-for-sale fixed income securities and short-term investments. In addition, we are a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of New York, which provides secured borrowing capacity. Our borrowing capacity as of March 31, 2023, is $40.3 million, and there were no outstanding amounts under this agreement. To date, we have funded operations primarily with issuances of convertible preferred stock, convertible promissory notes, and from net proceeds from a private placement transaction in connection with the Business Combination, the Business Combination, and revenue. Until we can generate sufficient revenue and other income to cover operating expenses, working capital and capital expenditures, we expect the funds raised as discussed above to fund our cash needs. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including the volume of issuances of insurance policies, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, investments in information technology systems, and the expansion of sales and marketing activities. In the future, we may raise additional funds through the issuance of debt or equity securities or through borrowing. We cannot assure that such funds will be available on favorable terms, or at all. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (35.7) $ (58.6) $ 22.9 Investing activities $ 13.8 $ (378.2) $ 392.0 Financing activities $ (1.9) $ (0.3) $ (1.6) 42 Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities represents payments for our operations including, payroll, loss and loss adjusted expenses and marketing activities. Cash used in operating activities was $35.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, a decrease of $22.9 million, from $58.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Our cash used in operation was lower than last year mainly due to the working capital changes that benefited cash balance. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $13.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, due primarily to the maturities and sales of investment securities partially offset by purchases of investment securities. Cash used in investing activities was $378.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, due primarily to purchases of investment securities. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily driven by taxes paid related to net share settlement of RSUs. Cash used in financing activities was $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily driven by taxes paid related to net share settlement of RSUs and payments of contingent consideration, partially offset by proceeds from common stock issuances. Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations primarily relate to purchase commitments, lease payments, and unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense. There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, other than an increase in Unpaid Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense. The estimation of the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is based on various complex and subjective judgments. Actual losses paid may differ, perhaps significantly, from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Similarly, the timing of payment of our estimated losses is not fixed and there may be significant changes in actual payment activity. The assumptions used in estimating the likely payments due by period are based on our historical claims payment experience and industry payment patterns, but due to the inherent uncertainty in the process of estimating the timing of such payments, there is a risk that the amounts paid can be significantly different from the amounts disclosed. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our revenue, loss and loss adjustment expense reserve, recoverability of our net deferred tax asset, and intangible assets. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with managements expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates, or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. Recent Accounting Pronouncements The information set forth under Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements under the caption Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies is incorporated herein by reference. 43 Emerging Growth Company Status We currently qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act. Accordingly, we are provided the option to adopt new or revised accounting guidance either (1) within the same periods as those otherwise applicable to non-emerging growth companies or (2) within the same time periods as private companies. We have elected to adopt new or revised accounting guidance within the same time period as private companies, unless management determines that it is preferable to take advantage of early adoption provisions offered within the applicable guidance. Our utilization of these transition periods may make it difficult to compare our financial statements to those of non-emerging growth companies and other emerging growth companies that have opted out of the transition periods afforded under the JOBS Act.