ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we, our, Hippo and the Company refer to the business and operations of Hippo Enterprises Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Business Combination and to Hippo Holdings Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries following the consummation of the Business Combination. You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview Hippo is a different kind of home protection company, built from the ground up to provide a standard of care and protection for homeowners. Our goal is to make homes safer and better protected so that customers spend less time worrying about the burdens of homeownership and more time enjoying their homes and the life within. Harnessing real-time data, smart home technology, and a growing suite of home services, we have created an integrated home protection platform. The home insurance industry has long been defined by incumbents that we believe deliver a passive, high- friction experience to policyholders. We view these incumbents as constrained by outdated captive-agent distribution models, legacy technology, and strong incentives not to disrupt their businesses. Accordingly, the industry has not seen meaningful innovation in decades. We believe this results in a flawed customer experience that creates a transactional, adversarial relationshipone that pits insurance companies and their policyholders against each other in a zero-sum game. The outcome of this misalignment is an experience that is out of touch with the needs of modern homeowners. As a digital-first, customer-centric company, we offer an improved customer value proposition and are well-positioned to succeed in this growing market. By making our policies fast and easy to buy, designing coverages around the needs of modern homeowners, and offering a proactive, white-glove claims experience, we have created an active partnership with our customers to better protect their homes, which saves our customers money and is expected to deliver a better economic outcome for Hippo. Beyond a core insurance experience that is simple, intuitive, and human, we focus our resources on Hippos true promise: better outcomes for homeowners. Through our unique Smart Home program, customers may detect and address water, fire, and other issues before they become major losses. And we help our customers maintain their homes with on-demand maintenance advice and access to home check-ups designed to reduce the probability of future losses. In short, we have created an integrated home protection platform, which offers a growing suite of proactive features designed to prevent loss and provide greater peace of mind. Our partnership with our customers is designed to create a virtuous cycle. By making homes safer, we help deliver better risk outcomes and increase customer loyalty, which improves our unit economics and customer lifetime value (LTV). This enables us to invest in expanding our product offering, customer value proposition, and marketing programs, which help attract more customers to the Hippo family. This growth generates more data and insights to fuel further innovation in our product experience and improved underwriting precision. The result is even safer homes and more loyal customers. We believe this virtuous cycle, combined with our significant existing scale, deep partnerships, and compelling unit economics, will propel Hippo to become a trusted household name synonymous with home protection. 25 Our Asset-Light Capital Model and Reinsurance We have historically pursued an asset-light capital strategy to support the growth of our business. We generally retain only as much risk on our balance sheet as is necessary to secure attractive terms from the reinsurers who bear the risk of the policies we sell. Those reinsurers usually insist that insurance companies like ours retain some risk to ensure alignment of interests. This strategy also helps support our growth: third party reinsurance helps decrease the statutory capital required to support new business growth. As a result, we expect to be able to grow at an accelerated pace with lower capital investments upfront than we would otherwise require. We have a successful track record of securing the appropriate reinsurance coverage with strong reinsurance carriers, providing a solid foundation for a long-term, sustainable model. Reinsurance Proportional Reinsurance Treaties Hippo For our primary homeowners reinsurance treaty commencing in 2022, we secured proportional, quota share reinsurance from a diverse panel of eleven third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are either rated A- Excellent or better by AM Best, or are appropriately collateralized. We retain approximately 10% of the premium through our insurance company subsidiaries or our captive reinsurance company, RHS. Additionally, the reinsurance contracts are subject to variable commission adjustments and loss participation features, including loss ratio caps and loss corridors, which align our interests with those of our reinsurers. Similar to the prior year, we saw increased use of loss participation features in the 2022 reinsurance agreements, which may increase the amount of risk retained by our insurance company subsidiaries in excess of our pro rata participation. We also seek to further reduce our risk retention through purchases of non-proportional reinsurance described below in the section titled Non-Proportional Reinsurance. Non-Proportional Reinsurance Hippo We also purchase non-proportional XOL reinsurance. Through our ownership of our insurance company subsidiaries, we are exposed to the risk of natural catastrophe events that could occur on the risks we are assuming from policies underwritten by us or other managing general agents (MGAs). We are also exposed to this risk through our captive reinsurer, which takes on a share of the risk underwritten by our MGA business. Other Reinsurance Spinnaker purchases reinsurance for programs written by MGAs other than Hippo. The reinsurance treaties are a mix of proportional and XOL in which approximately 75% to 100% of the risk is ceded. The reinsurance contracts continue to be subject to variable commission adjustments and loss participation features, including loss caps, and may increase the amount of risk retained the Company in excess of our pro-rata participation. Such provisions are recognized in the period the experience to date under the agreement. Spinnaker also purchases a corporate catastrophe XOL program that sits above the reinsurance programs protecting the business written by Hippo as well as the other MGAs. This treaty has a floating retention and attaches at the exhaustion point of the underlying programs specific reinsurance. This program provides protection to the Company from catastrophes that could impact a large number of insurance policies. We buy XOL so that the probability of losses from a single occurrence exceeding the protection purchased is no more than 0.4%, or equivalent to a 1 in 250 year return period. This reinsurance protects us from all but the most severe catastrophic events. 26 Key Factors and Trends Affecting our Operating Results Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and will continue to be, affected by a number of factors, including our ability to: attract new customers, retain customers, expand nationally across the United States, expand fee income and premium through cross-sales to existing customers, and manage risk. For more information about these factors, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Our financial condition and results of operations have also been, and will continue to be, affected by seasonal patterns in both our rate of customer acquisition and the incurrence of claims losses. Based on historical experience, existing and potential customers move more frequently during the summer months of the year, compared to the rest of the calendar year. As a result, we may see greater demand for new or expanded insurance coverage, and increased engagement resulting in proportionately more growth during the third quarter. We expect that as we grow, expand geographically, and launch new products, the impact of seasonal variability on our rate of growth may decrease. Additionally, seasonal weather patterns impact the level and amount of claims we receive. These patterns include hurricanes, wildfires, and coastal storms in the fall, cold weather patterns and changing home heating needs in the winter, and tornados and hailstorms in the spring and summer. The mix of geographic exposure and products within our customer base impacts our exposure to these weather patterns, and as we diversify our base of premium such that our exposure more closely resembles the industry exposure, we should see the impact of these events on our business more closely resemble the impact on the broader industry. Ba sis of Presentation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP as determined by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), and pursuant to the regulations of the SEC. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Gross Written Premium Gross written premium is the amount received or to be received for insurance policies written or assumed by us and our affiliates as a carrier, without reduction for policy acquisition costs, reinsurance costs, or other deductions. In addition, gross written premium includes amounts received from our participation in our own reinsurance treaty. The volume of our gross written premium in any given period is generally influenced by: New business submissions; Binding of new business submissions into policies; Bound policies going effective; Renewals of existing policies; and Average size and premium rate of bound policies. 27 Ceded Written Premium Ceded written premium is the amount of gross written premium written or assumed by us and our affiliates as a carrier that we cede to reinsurers. We enter into reinsurance contracts to limit our exposure to losses, as well as to provide additional capacity for growth. Ceded written premium is treated as a reduction from gross written premium written during a specific period of time over the reinsurance contract period in proportion to the period of risk covered. The volume of our ceded written premium is impacted by the level of our gross written premium and decisions we make to increase or decrease retention levels. Net Earned Premium Net earned premium represents the earned portion of our gross written premium for insurance policies written or assumed by us and less ceded written premium (any portion of our gross written premium that is ceded to third-party reinsurers under our reinsurance agreements). We earn written premiums on a pro-rata basis over the term of the policies. Commission Income, Net Includes: a. MGA Commission: We operate as an MGA for multiple insurers. We design and underwrite insurance products on behalf of the insurers culminating in the sale of insurance policies. We earn recurring commission and policy fees associated with the policies we sell. While we have underwriting authority and responsibility for administering claims (see Claim Processing Fee below), we take a proportional risk associated with policies written on third-party carriers. Rather, we work with affiliated and unaffiliated carrier platforms and a diversified panel of highly rated reinsurance companies who pay us commission in exchange for the opportunity to take that risk on their balance sheets. Our performance obligation associated with these contracts is the placement of the policy, which is met on the effective date. Upon issuance of a new policy, we charge policy fees and inspection fees (see Service and Fee Income below), retain our share of ceding commission, and remit the balance premium to the respective insurers. Subsequent ceding commission adjustments arising from policy changes such as endorsements are recognized when the adjustments can be reasonably estimated. b. Agency Commission: We also operate licensed insurance agencies that are engaged solely in the sale of policies, including non-Hippo policies. For these policies, we earn a recurring agency commission from the carriers whose policies we sell, which is recorded in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Similar to the MGA businesses, the performance obligation from the agency contracts is placement of the insurance policies. For both MGA and insurance agency activities, we recognize commission received from insurers for the sale of insurance contracts as revenue at a point in time on the policy effective dates. Cash received in advance of policy effective dates is recorded on the consolidated balance sheets, representing our portion of commission and premium due to insurers and reinsurers, and hold this cash in trust for the benefit of the insurers and reinsurers as fiduciary liabilities. The MGA commission is subject to adjustments, higher or lower (commonly referred to as commission slide), depending on the underwriting performance of the policies placed by us. We are required to return a portion of our MGA commission due to commission slide on the policies placed as an MGA if the underwriting performance varies due to higher Hippo programs loss ratio from provisional performance of the Hippo programs loss ratio. We also return a portion of our MGA commission if the policies are cancelled before the term of the policy. Accordingly. we reserve for commission slide using estimated Hippo programs loss ratio performance, or a cancellation reserve as a reduction of revenue for each period presented in our statement of operations and comprehensive loss. c. Ceding Commission: We receive commission based on the premium we cede to third-party reinsurers for the reimbursement for our acquisition and underwriting services. Excess ceding commission over the cost of acquisition is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. For the policies that we write on our own carrier as MGA, we recognize this commission as ceding commission on the statement of operations and comprehensive loss. We earn commission on reinsurance premium ceded in a manner consistent with the recognition of the earned premium on the underlying insurance policies, on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies reinsured. 28 We record the portion of ceding commission income, which represents reimbursement of successful direct acquisition costs related to the underlying policies as an offset to the applicable direct acquisition costs. d. Carrier Fronting Fees: Through our insurance-as-a-service business, we earn recurring fees from the MGA programs we support. We earn fronting fees in a manner consistent with the recognition of the earned premium on the underlying insurance policies, on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. This revenue is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. e. Claim Processing Fees: As an MGA, we receive a fee that is calculated as a percent of the premium from the insurers in exchange for providing claims adjudication services. The claims adjudication services are provided over the term of the policy and recognized ratably over the same period. This revenue is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Service and Fee Income Service and fee income mainly represents policy fees and other revenue. We directly bill policyholders for policy fees and collect and retain fees per the terms of the contracts between us and our insurers. Similar to the commission revenue, we estimate a cancellation reserve for policy fees using historical information. The performance obligation associated with these fees is satisfied at a point in time upon completion of the underwriting process, which is the policy effective date. Accordingly, we recognize all fees as revenue on the policy effective date. Net Investment Income Net investment income represents interest earned from fixed maturity securities, short-term investments and other investments, and the gains or losses from the sale of investments. Our cash and invested assets primarily consist of fixed-maturity securities, and may also include cash and cash equivalents, equity securities, and short-term investments. The principal factors that influence net investment income are the size of our investment portfolio and the yield on that portfolio. As measured by amortized cost (which excludes changes in fair value, such as changes in interest rates), the size of our investment portfolio is mainly a function of our invested equity capital along with premium we receive from our customers less payments on customer claims. Net investment income also includes an insignificant amount of net realized gains (losses) on investments, which are a function of the difference between the amount received by us on the sale of a security and the securitys amortized cost, as well as any allowances for credit losses recognized in earnings, if any. Expenses Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses Loss and loss adjustment expenses represent the costs incurred for losses net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. We enter into reinsurance contracts to limit our exposure to potential losses as well as to provide additional capacity for growth. The expenses are a function of the size and term of the insurance policies and the loss experience and loss participation features associated with the underlying risks. LAE are based on actuarial assumptions and management judgements, including losses incurred during the period and changes in estimates from prior periods. Loss and LAE also include employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) of our claims processing teams, as well as allocated occupancy costs and related overhead based on headcount. Insurance Related Expenses Insurance related expenses primarily consist of amortization of direct acquisition commission costs and premium taxes incurred on the successful acquisition of business written on a direct basis and credit card processing fees not charged to our customers. Insurance related expenses also include employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) of our underwriting teams, as well as allocated occupancy costs and related overhead based on headcount. Insurance related expenses are offset by a portion of ceding commission income, which represents reimbursement of successful acquisition costs related to the underlying policies. Additionally, 29 insurance related expenses include the costs of providing bound policies and delivering claims services to our customers. These costs include underwriting technology service costs including software, data services used for performing underwriting, and third-party call center costs in addition to personnel-related costs. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for our technology staff, which includes technology development, infrastructure support, actuarial, and third-party services. Technology and development also include allocated facility costs and related overhead based on headcount. We expense development costs as incurred, except for costs related to internal-use software development projects, which are capitalized and subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the developed software. We expect our technology and development costs to increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development activities to achieve our technology development roadmap. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of sales commission, advertising costs, and marketing expenditures, as well as employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for employees engaged in sales, marketing, data analytics, and customer acquisition. Sales and marketing also include allocated facility costs and related overhead based on headcount. We plan to continue to invest in sales and marketing to attract and acquire new customers and to increase our brand awareness. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase over time as we continue to hire additional personnel to scale our business, increase commission payments to our produces and partners as a result of our premium growth, and invest in developing a nationally-recognized brand. We expect that sales and marketing costs will increase in absolute dollars in future periods and vary from period-to-period as a percentage of revenue in the near-term. We expect thatin the long-termour sales and marketing costs will decrease as a percentage of revenue as we continue to drive customer acquisition efficiencies and as the proportion of renewals to our total business increases. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for our finance, human resources, legal, and general management functions, as well as facilities, insurance, and professional services. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we scale headcount with the growth of our business, and as a result of operating as a public company, including compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC and other regulatory bodies, legal, audit, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities, and other administrative and professional services. Interest and Other (Income) Expense Interest and other (income) expense after the Business Combination in August 2021 primarily consists of fair value adjustments on outstanding warrants. Prior to the Business Combination interest and other (income) expense primarily consisted of interest expense incurred for convertible promissory notes, fair value adjustments on preferred stock warrant liabilities, and fair value adjustments on the embedded derivative on our convertible promissory notes. Income Taxes We record income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we record deferred income tax assets and liabilities based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between the financial statement and income tax basis of existing assets and liabilities. We measure these differences using the enacted statutory tax rates that are expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which differences are expected to reverse. We recognize the effect on deferred income taxes of a change in tax rates in income in the period that includes the enactment date. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets and liabilities to the net amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, 30 including historical levels of income, expectations, and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Key Operating and Financial Metrics and Non-GAAP Measures We regularly review the following key operating and financial metrics in order to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends in our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. The non-GAAP financial measures below have not been calculated in accordance with GAAP and should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. In addition, adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an indicator of our operating performance, liquidity, or cash flows generated by operating, investing, and financing activities, as there may be significant factors or trends that it fails to address. We caution investors that non-GAAP financial informationby its naturedeparts from traditional accounting conventions. Therefore, its use can make it difficult to compare our current results with our results from other reporting periods and with the results of other companies. Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures, in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as an integral part of managing our business and to, among other things: (i) monitor and evaluate the performance of our business operations and financial performance; (ii) facilitate internal comparisons of the historical operating performance of our business operations; (iii) review and assess the operating performance of our management team; (iv) analyze and evaluate financial and strategic planning decisions regarding future operating investments; and (v) plan for and prepare future annual operating budgets and determine appropriate levels of operating investments. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 ($ in millions) Total Generated Premium $ 153.7 $ 123.1 Total Revenue 24.5 17.0 Net Loss attributable to Hippo (67.6) (195.2) Adjusted EBITDA (48.5) (35.6) Gross Loss Ratio 76 % 198 % Total Generated Premium We define Total Generated Premium (TGP) as the aggregate written premium placed across all of our business platforms for the period presented. We measure TGP as it reflects the volume of our business irrespective of choices related to how we structure our reinsurance treaties, the amount of risk we retain on our own balance sheet, or the amount of business written in our capacity as an MGA, agency, or as an insurance carrier/reinsurer. We calculate TGP as the sum of: i) Gross written premium (GWP) a GAAP measure defined above; and ii) Gross placed premium premium of policies placed with third-party insurance companies, for which we do not retain insurance risk and for which we earn a commission payment, and policy fees charged by us to the policyholders on the effective date of the policy. Our TGP for the three months ended March 31, 2022 grew 25% year-over-year to $153.7 million from $123.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 . The growth was driven primarily by growth across channels in existing states, expansion into new states, expansion of our independent agent network, launch of new strategic partnerships, maintaining solid premium retention levels, achieving planned premium rate increases, and 31 growth of non-Hippo written premium supported by our insurance company, Spinnaker. As of March 31, 2022, we were selling policies in 37 states as compared to 34 states as of March 31, 2021. The following table presents TGP for the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change Gross Written Premium $ 117.1 $ 99.2 $ 17.9 Gross Placed Premium 36.6 23.9 12.7 Total Generated Premium $ 153.7 $ 123.1 $ 30.6 Total Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2022, total revenue was $24.5 million, an increase of $7.5 million compared to $17.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily driven by increases in commission income, net, and service and fee income of $6.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively. The increases in net earned premium were partially offset by additional catastrophe XOL coverages that were placed in the first quarter of 2022 in connection with certain quota share reinsurance contracts that provide an allowance for the Company to purchase XOL, which is recognized over the term of the underlying policies in place. Net Loss Attributable to Hippo Net loss attributable to Hippo is calculated in accordance with GAAP as total revenue less total expenses and taxes and net of net income attributable to non-controlling interest, net of tax. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net loss attributable to Hippo was $67.6 million, a decrease of $127.6 million compared to $195.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was primarily driven by an decrease in other (income) expense of $148.1 million. In the first quarter of 2021, we recorded fair value losses on preferred stock warrants and derivative liability on our convertible promissory notes of $136.4 million and interest expense of $10.6 million on the convertible promissory notes. These instruments were settled in the third quarter of 2021. The decrease was also due an increase in revenues of $7.5 million. These amounts were partially offset by an increase in other expenses as a result of the growth in our business and an increase in public company costs. Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (adjusted EBITDA), a Non-GAAP financial measure, as net loss attributable to Hippo excluding interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, net investment income, other non-cash fair market value adjustments, and contingent consideration for one of our acquisitions and other transactions that we consider to be unique in nature. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, adjusted EBITDA loss was $48.5 million, an increase of $12.9 million compared to $35.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, due primarily to an increase in 32 employee-related costs due to an increase in headcount to support our growth, along with an increase in public company costs. The following table provides a reconciliation from net loss attributable to Hippo to adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net loss attributable to Hippo $ (67.6) $ (195.2) Adjustments: Net investment income (0.4) (0.1) Depreciation and amortization 3.9 2.5 Interest expense 10.6 Stock-based compensation 13.4 2.5 Fair value adjustments (1.2) 136.4 Contingent consideration charge 3.2 0.6 Other one-off transactions 7.0 Income taxes (benefit) expense 0.2 0.1 Adjusted EBITDA $ (48.5) $ (35.6) Gross Loss Ratio Gross Loss Ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the Gross Losses and LAE to the Gross Earned Premium (in millions). Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Gross Losses and LAE $ 91.2 $ 147.4 Gross Earned Premium 120.1 74.4 Gross Loss Ratio 76 % 198 % The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross Loss Ratio by named event Property Claims Services (PCS) and non-PCS events. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 PCS Losses 19 % 136 % Non-PCS Losses 57 % 62 % Gross Loss Ratio 76 % 198 % For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our Gross Loss Ratio was 76% compared with 198% for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of Texas winter storm Uri in February 2021, which was 111 percentage points of our Gross Loss Ratio for the three months ended March 31, 33 2021. The decrease is also attributable to gross reserve releases relating to prior accident years of $6.8 million or 6% and $16.0 million or 13% of PCS and non-PCS events, respectively. Net Loss Ratio Net loss ratio expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the net losses and LAE, to the net earned premium (in millions). Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net Losses and LAE $ 22.5 $ 19.0 Net Earned Premium 9.0 8.8 Net Loss Ratio 250 % 216 % For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our Net Loss Ratio was 250% compared with 216% for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was due to an increase in our loss and loss adjustment expense as a result of the growth in our business in which we retain more risk from loss participation clauses in several of our proportional reinsurance treaties, offset by net reserve releases of $2.8 million on prior accident years. Although there was an increase in gross earned premium, net earned premium remained flat period over period due to the increased cost of XOL premiums for our catastrophic coverage, which resulted in an increase to our ceded earned premium, and a lower net earned premium. 34 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations data for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change % Change Revenue: Net earned premium $ 9.0 $ 8.8 $ 0.2 2 % Commission income, net 11.5 5.2 6.3 121 % Service and fee income 3.6 2.9 0.7 24 % Net investment income 0.4 0.1 0.3 300 % Total revenue 24.5 17.0 7.5 44 % Expenses: Losses and loss adjustment expenses 22.5 19.0 3.5 18 % Insurance related expenses 13.2 5.8 7.4 128 % Technology and development 14.7 6.9 7.8 113 % Sales and marketing 24.9 24.7 0.2 1 % General and administrative 16.5 8.3 8.2 99 % Interest and other (income) expense (1.0) 147.1 (148.1) (101) % Total expenses 90.8 211.8 (121.0) (57) % Loss before income taxes (66.3) (194.8) 128.5 (66) % Income tax expense 0.2 0.1 0.1 100 % Net loss (66.5) (194.9) 128.4 (66) % Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of tax 1.1 0.3 0.8 267 % Net loss attributable to Hippo $ (67.6) $ (195.2) $ 127.6 (65) % Other comprehensive income: Change in net unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities, net of tax (2.6) (0.6) (2.0) 333 % Comprehensive loss attributable to Hippo $ (70.2) $ (195.8) $ 125.6 (64) % 35 Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Net Earned Premium For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net earned premium was $9.0 million, an increase of $0.2 million compared to $8.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was due primarily to an increase in gross earned premium due to year-over-year growth of our total book of business, offset by an increased cost of XOL premiums for our catastrophic coverage. This results in an increase in ceded earned premium, which results in a lower net earned premium. XOL is purchased to cover events in excess of per occurrence limits based on the expected growth in exposure during the year. An amount of $7.4 million and $3.3 million was offset against earned premium for XOL in the first quarter of 2022 and the first quarter of 2021, respectively. The following table presents gross written premium, ceded written premium, net written premium, change in unearned premium, and net earned premium for the three months ended months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 (in millions). Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change Gross written premium $ 117.1 $ 99.2 $ 17.9 Ceded written premium 116.5 92.0 24.5 Net written premium 0.6 7.2 (6.6) Change in unearned premium 8.4 1.6 6.8 Net earned premium $ 9.0 $ 8.8 $ 0.2 Commission Income, Net For the three months ended March 31, 2022, commission income was $11.5 million, an increase of $6.3 million, or 121%, compared to $5.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was due primarily to increased ceding commissions, including fronting fees, of $6.1 million, which grew due to the year-over-year growth of our total book of business, net of variable commission provisions. Service and Fee Income For the three months ended March 31, 2022, service and fee income was $3.6 million, an increase of $0.7 million, or 24%, compared to $2.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was due primarily to increased policy fees due to an increase in the volume of policies placed by us as an MGA. Net Investment Income For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net investment income was $0.4 million, an increase of $0.3 million, compared to $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was due primarily to an increase in our investment balances from the cash proceeds received upon the completion of the Business Combination in August 2021. We are mainly invested in corporate securities, residential mortgage-backed securities, and other fixed maturities securities issued by the U.S. government and agencies. Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2022, loss and loss adjustment expenses were $22.5 million, an increase of $3.5 million, compared to $19.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was due primarily to an increase in employee-related expenses of $2.0 million for our claims processing department, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $0.6 million, driven by an increase in headcount to support our growth. There was also an increase attributable to loss participation features of $8.1 million. This was offset by a net reserve release of $2.8 million relating to prior accident years. The remaining offset was primarily attributed to improved loss experience. 36 Insurance Related Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2022, insurance related expenses were $13.2 million, an increase of $7.4 million, or 128%, compared to $5.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was due primarily to an increase in amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs of $2.9 million, an increase in employee-related expenses of $1.5 million, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $1.2 million, driven by an increase in headcount to support our growth, and an increase in amortization expense attributable to capitalized internal use software of $0.8 million. The primary components of insurance related expenses are listed below (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, net $ 4.6 $ 1.7 Employee-related costs 2.8 1.3 Underwriting costs 2.0 1.6 Amortization of capitalized internal use software 1.8 1.0 Other 2.0 0.2 Total $ 13.2 $ 5.8 Direct acquisition costs were $14.2 million for the for the three months ended March 31, 2022, of which $9.6 million was offset by ceding commission income. Direct acquisition costs were $4.3 million for the for the three months ended March 31, 2021, of which $2.6 million was offset by ceding commission income. Technology and Development Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2022, technology and development expenses were $14.7 million, an increase of $7.8 million, or 113%, compared to $6.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was due primarily to an increase in employee-related costs of $6.8 million, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $4.8 million, driven by an increase in headcount to support our long-term product roadmap and business growth. Sales and Marketing Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2022, sales and marketing expenses were $24.9 million, an increase of $0.2 million, or 1%, compared to $24.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was due primarily to an increase in employee-related expenses of $3.4 million, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $1.4 million, driven by an increase in headcount to support our growth, an increase due to the change in fair value of contingent consideration of $2.7 million, and an increase in facilities and IT costs of $0.9 million. These amounts were offset by a decrease in service fees of $7.0 million related to the issuance of a convertible promissory note in the first quarter of 2021. General and Administrative Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2022, general and administrative expenses were $16.5 million, an increase of $8.2 million, or 99%, compared to $8.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was due primarily to an increase in employee-related expenses of $4.8 million, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $2.9 million, driven by an increase in headcount to support our growth. There was also an increase 37 in corporate and directors and officers insurance costs of $1.8 million and an increase in professional services costs of $0.9 million, related to the increased cost of public company requirements. Interest and Other (Income) Expense For the three months ended March 31, 2022, other income was $1.0 million, an increase of $148.1 million compared to an expense of $147.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was due primarily to fair value losses on preferred stock warrants and the derivative liability on our convertible promissory notes of $136.4 million and interest expense of $10.6 million on the convertible promissory notes, recorded in the first quarter of 2021. These instruments were settled in the third quarter of 2021. In the first quarter of 2022 we recorded a gain on the change in fair value of our outstanding warrants of $1.2 million. Income Taxes For the three months ended March 31, 2022, income tax expense was $0.2 million, an increase of $0.1 million, compared to $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity In August 2021, we completed the Business Combination. In connection with this transaction, we received net proceeds of approximately $450 million. We also received proceeds of $29.0 million from the exercise of preferred stock warrants immediately prior to the Business Combination. Our existing sources of liquidity include cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities as of March 31, 2022, we had $381.6 million of cash and restricted cash and $435.4 million of available-for-sale fixed income securities and short term investments. In addition, we are a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of New York, which provides secured borrowing capacity. Our borrowing capacity as of March 31, 2022, is $19.2 million , and there were no outstanding amounts under this agreement. To date, we have funded operations primarily with issuances of convertible preferred stock, convertible promissory notes, and from net proceeds from a private placement transaction in connection with the Business Combination, the Business Combination, and revenue. Until we can generate sufficient revenue and other income to cover operating expenses, working capital and capital expenditures, we expect the funds raised as discussed above to fund our cash needs. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including the volume of issuances of insurance policies, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, investments in information technology systems, and the expansion of sales and marketing activities. In the future, we may raise additional funds through the issuance of debt or equity securities or through borrowing. We cannot assure that such funds will be available on favorable terms, or at al l. 38 Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (58.6) $ (15.5) $ (43.1) Investing activities $ (378.2) $ (9.0) $ (369.2) Financing activities $ (0.3) $ 0.2 $ (0.5) Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities was $58.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $43.1 million, from $15.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was due primarily to changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $31.1 million due to the timing of payments and collections. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $378.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, due primarily to purchases of investments. Cash used in investing activities was $9.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, due primarily to purchases of investments and intangibles. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily driven by taxes paid related to net share settlement of RSUs and payments of contingent consideration, partially offset by proceeds from share exercises. Cash provided by financing activities was $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, due primarily to the proceeds from share exercises partially offset by payments for reverse recapitalization transaction costs and contingent consideration. Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations primarily relate to purchase commitments, lease payments, and unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense. There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, other than an increase in Unpaid Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense, certain operating leases as disclosed in Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements, or the agreement to purchase office space as noted below. The estimation of the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is based on various complex and subjective judgments. Actual losses paid may differ, perhaps significantly, from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Similarly, the timing of payment of our estimated losses is not fixed and there may be significant changes in actual payment activity. The assumptions used in estimating the likely payments due by period are based on our historical claims payment experience and industry payment patterns, but due to the inherent uncertainty in the process of estimating the timing of such payments, there is a risk that the amounts paid can be significantly different from the amounts disclosed. On February 24, 2022, Spinnaker, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hippo Holdings Inc., entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Elevate Sabine Investors LP (the Seller). The Purchase Agreement was amended effective March 24, 2022 (the Amendment and, together with the Purchase Agreement, the Agreement). Pursuant to the Agreement, Spinnaker will purchase from the Seller certain real 39 property, improvements and personal property located at 701 E. 5th Street, Austin, Texas 78701, as well as Sellers interest in and to certain leases and other agreements, licenses, permits and approvals as set forth in the Agreement (together, the Property). The Property will be used as office space for employees of Hippo Holdings Inc. and affiliated companies. Subject to certain prorations and adjustments as provided for in the Agreement, the purchase price for the Property will be approximately $30.0 million in cash due at closing. Spinnaker deposited $2.0 million into escrow in February 2022. The Agreement was terminable by Spinnaker in Spinnakers sole discretion and without cause until April 21, 2022. The Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants, closing conditions and termination provisions. Hippo Analytics Inc., an affiliate of Hippo Holdings Inc., is currently party to a lease agreement with the Seller to occupy a portion of the Property once it is fully built and ready to occupy. The future minimum rental payments for the leased space total $11.7 million. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our revenue, loss and loss adjustment expense reserve, recoverability of our net deferred tax asset, goodwill and intangible assets, business combinations, fair value of common stock, valuation of embedded derivatives, and redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with managements expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. Recent Accounting Pronouncements The information set forth under Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements under the caption Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies is incorporated herein by reference. Emerging Growth Company Status We currently qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act. Accordingly, we are provided the option to adopt new or revised accounting guidance either (1) within the same periods as those otherwise applicable to non-emerging growth companies or (2) within the same time periods as private companies. We have elected to adopt new or revised accounting guidance within the same time period as private companies, unless management determines that it is preferable to take advantage of early adoption provisions offered within the applicable guidance. Our utilization of these transition periods may make it difficult to compare our financial statements to those of non-emerging growth companies and other emerging growth companies that have opted out of the transition periods afforded under the JOBS Act.