MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Hippo Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we, our, Hippo and the Company refer to the business and operations of Hippo Enterprises Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Business Combination and to Hippo Holdings Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries following the consummation of the Business Combination. Overview Hippo is a different kind of home protection company, built from the ground up to provide a new standard of care and protection for homeowners. Our goal is to make homes safer and better protected so that customers spend less time worrying about the burdens of homeownership and more time enjoying their homes and the life within. Harnessing real-time data, smart home technology, and a growing suite of home services, we have created an integrated home protection platform. The home insurance industry has long been defined by incumbents that we believe deliver a passive, high- friction experience to policyholders. We view these incumbents as constrained by outdated captive-agent distribution models, legacy technology, and strong incentives not to disrupt their businesses. Accordingly, the industry has not seen meaningful innovation in decades. We believe this results in a flawed customer experience that creates a transactional, adversarial relationshipone that pits insurance companies and their policyholders against each other in a zero-sum game. The outcome of this misalignment is an experience that is out of touch with the needs of modern homeowners. As a digital-first, customer-centric company, we offer an improved customer value proposition and are well-positioned to succeed in this growing, $110 billion market. By making our policies fast and easy to buy, designing coverages around the needs of modern homeowners, and offering a proactive, white-glove claims experience, we have created an active partnership with our customers to better protect their homes, which saves our customers money and is expected to deliver a better economic outcome for Hippo. Beyond a core insurance experience that is simple, intuitive, and human, we focus our resources on Hippos true promise: better outcomes for homeowners. Through our unique Smart Home program, customers may detect and address water, fire, and other issues before they become major losses. And we help our customers maintain their homes with on-demand maintenance advice and access to home check-ups designed to reduce the probability of future losses. In short, we have created an integrated home protection platform, which offers a growing suite of proactive features designed to prevent loss and provide greater peace of mind. Our partnership with our customers is designed to create a virtuous cycle. By making homes safer, we help deliver better risk outcomes and increase customer loyalty, which improves our unit economics and customer lifetime value (LTV). This enables us to invest in expanding our product offering, customer value proposition, and marketing programs, which help attract more customers to the Hippo family. This growth generates more data and insights to fuel further innovation in our product experience and improved underwriting precision. The result is even safer homes and more loyal customers. We believe this virtuous cycle, combined with our significant existing scale, deep partnerships, and compelling unit economics, will propel Hippo to become a trusted household name synonymous with home protection. Our Business Model There are four key components in our economic model. First, as a managing general agent (MGA), we manage the customer-facing experience of insurance, including sales and marketing, underwriting, policy issuance and administration, and claims administration. In exchange for these services, we earn recurring commission and fees associated with the policies we sell. While we have underwriting authority and responsibility for administering policies and claims, we do not take the bulk of the risk associated with these policies on our own balance sheet. Rather, we work with a diversified panel of highly-rated insurance companies who pay us commission in exchange for the opportunity to take the insurance risk on their own balance sheets. 29 We also earn commission income as a licensed insurance agency selling non-Hippo policies to our customers. Today, we earn agency commission income when we cross sell automobile, flood, earthquake, umbrella, and other policies to our homeowners customers. When a customer seeking homeowners insurance is located in an area where Hippo policies are unavailable, we work to place them with another carrier. When a particular home does not meet our underwriting criteria, we also work to place these customers with another carrier when possible. As we broaden our agency offerings, we expect to distribute additional types of insurance products offered by other carriers, which we expect will contribute to growth of this business. Commission income on these policies recurs as the policies renew, allowing us to earn margin relative to our customer acquisition cost. The third way we generate revenue is through our insurance company platform offering insurance-as-a-service to other MGAs who are willing to share economics with a carrier that can provide the capital and regulatory licenses needed for their business, commonly referred to as fronting fees. The economic benefits to us of providing this service extend beyond profit margins on these premiums and include capital efficiency benefits as the diversity of insurance offered allows us to secure more cost-effective reinsurance coverage. Given our diverse portfolio of homeowners insurance, the regulatory capital we are required to set aside for premium generated by these third parties is lower than these parties would need to set aside if they were to provide their own capital. Finally, we earn revenue in the form of earned premium when we retain risk on our own balance sheet rather than ceding it to third-party reinsurers. In the future, we anticipate generating additional revenue through our offering of value-added services such as home monitoring and maintenance. Our Asset-Light Capital Model and Reinsurance We have historically pursued an asset-light capital strategy to support the growth of our business. Even though we acquired a licensed carrier in 2020, we generally retain only as much risk on our balance sheet as is necessary to secure attractive terms from the reinsurers who bear the risk of the policies we sell. Those reinsurers usually insist that insurance companies like ours retain some risk to ensure alignment of interests. For policies written in 2021, we expect to retain approximately 11% of the risk associated with Hippo homeowners policies on our own balance sheet and expect to see this increase modestly over time. This strategy also helps support our growth: third party reinsurance helps decrease the statutory capital required to support new business growth. As a result, we expect to be able to grow at an accelerated pace with lower capital investments upfront than we would otherwise require. We have a successful track record of securing strong reinsurance treaties, providing a solid foundation for a long-term, sustainable model. Reinsurance We utilize reinsurance primarily to support the growth of our new and renewal insurance business, to reduce the volatility of our earnings, and to optimize our capital management. As a MGA, we underwrite homeowners insurance policies on behalf of our insurance company subsidiaries (Spinnaker and Spinnaker Specialty) and other non-affiliated third-party insurance carriers. These carriers purchase reinsurance from a variety of sources and in a variety of structures. In the basic form of this arrangement, fronting insurance carriers will typically cede a large majority of the total insurance premium they earn from customers, in return for a proportional amount of reinsurance protection. This is known as ceding premium and losses through a quota share reinsurance treaty. The fronting carrier and the MGA are paid a percentage of the ceded premium as compensation for sales and marketing, underwriting, insurance, support, claims administration, and other related services (in totality, known as a ceding commission). As additional protection against natural catastrophes or other large loss events, the fronting carrier frequently purchases additional, non-proportional reinsurance. 30 Without reinsurance protection, the insurer would shoulder all of the insurance risk itself and would need incremental capital to satisfy regulators and rating agencies. Reinsurance allows a carrier to write more business while reducing its balance sheet exposure and volatility of earnings. As a result, we believe our acquisition of Spinnaker gives us increased control over reinsurance strategy and purchasing. Proportional Reinsurance Treaties Hippo MGA For our primary reinsurance treaty commencing in 2021, we secured proportional, quota share reinsurance from a diverse panel of nine third-party reinsurers with AM Best ratings of A- or better. We retain approximately 11% of the proportional risk through our insurance company subsidiaries or our captive reinsurance company, RHS, which aligns our interests with those of our reinsurers. We also seek to further reduce our risk retention through purchases of non-proportional reinsurance described below in the section titled Non-Proportional Reinsurance. Non-Proportional Reinsurance Hippo MGA We also purchase two forms of non-proportional reinsurance: excess of loss (XOL) and per-risk. Through our ownership of our insurance company subsidiaries, we are exposed to the risk of larger losses and natural catastrophe events that could occur on the risks we are assuming from policies underwritten by us or other MGAs. We are also exposed to this risk through our captive reinsurer, which takes on a share of the risk underwritten by our MGA business. Our XOL program provides protection to us from catastrophes that could impact a large number of insurance policies. We buy XOL so that the probability of losses exceeding the protection purchased is no more than 0.4%, or equivalent to a 1:250 year return period. This reinsurance also caps losses at a level which protects us from all but the most severe catastrophic events. Our per-risk program protects us from large, individual claims that are less likely to be associated with catastrophes, such as house fires. We have historically purchased and expect to continue to purchase this coverage for the benefit of our retained shares for losses on single policies in excess of $500,000. Other Spinnaker MGA Programs Reinsurance As the fronting carrier for other MGAs, Spinnaker has reinsurance in place for several other MGA programs. Those programs are supported by a diversified panel of high-quality reinsurers similar to those on Hippos panel. The treaties are a mix of quota share and excess of loss in which 80% to 100% of the risk is ceded. Spinnakers catastrophic risk retention for each program is managed to a 1:250 year loss event across all programs. With all our reinsurance programs, we are not relieved of our primary obligations to policyholders in the event of a default or the insolvency of our reinsurers. As a result, a credit exposure exists to the extent that any reinsurer fails to meet its obligations assumed in the reinsurance agreements. To mitigate this exposure to reinsurance insolvencies, we evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and, in certain circumstances, hold substantial collateral (in the form of funds withheld and letters of credit) as security under the reinsurance agreements. Business Combination and Public Company Costs On August 2, 2021, we completed the Business Combination and the PIPE Investment. For more information, see Notes 1 and 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The Business Combination is accounted for as a reverse recapitalization. Under this method of accounting Hippo Enterprises Inc. has been deemed the accounting acquirer or predecessor and Hippo Holdings Inc. is the successor SEC registrant, which means that Hippo Enterprises Inc.s financial statements for previous periods will be disclosed in Hippo Holdings Inc.s future periodic reports filed with the SEC. The most significant change in 31 Hippo Holdings Inc.s future reported financial position and results was an increase in net cash of approximately $450 million. As a consequence of the Business Combination, we need to continue to hire additional personnel and implement procedures and processes to satisfy regulatory requirements and customary practices applicable to an SEC-registered and NYSE-listed company. We expect to incur additional annual expenses as a public company for, among other things, directors and officers liability insurance, director fees and additional internal and external accounting and legal and administrative resources, including increased audit and legal fees. COVID-19 Impact The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures imposed to contain it severely impacted businesses worldwide, including many in the insurance sector. Insurers of travel, events, or business interruption have been directly and adversely affected by claims from COVID-19 or the lock-down it engendered. Other insurance businesses, including property and casualty lines, have also been indirectly impacted in varying ways, including the dependency on in-person inspections during a time when such in-person interactions have been discouraged. In addition, insurance businesses dependent on office-based brokers and teams that are poorly equipped to work from home have been negatively impacted. The broader economic volatility may hurt insurers in other ways. For instance, with interest rates at all-time lows, many insurers have and may continue to see their return on capital drop, while those selling premium or discretionary products may see an increase in churn and a decrease in demand. The magnitude and duration of the global pandemic and the impact of actions taken by governmental authorities, businesses and consumers, including the availability and acceptance of vaccines, to mitigate health risks continue to create significant uncertainty, particularly as new strains of the virus emerge and create potential challenges to vaccination efforts. We are closely monitoring the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic effects on all aspects of our business, including how it will impact our production, loss ratios, recoverability of premium, our operations, and the fair value of our investment portfolio. Production, Loss Ratios, and Recoverability of Premium COVID-19 has reduced our ability to perform interior home inspections on risks we underwrite and may impact loss ratios as time at home has increased and has impacted collection of premium where moratoriums have been imposed restricting cancellation of policies for non-payment. During 2020 and 2021, we also witnessed increased cost of labor, and costs associated with materials like timber. These higher costs have a direct impact to the cost of handling claims and result in more than normal loss expenses. Due to the speed with which the COVID-19 situation has developed, the global breadth of its spread and the range of governmental and community reactions thereto, uncertainty around its duration and ultimate impact persists, and the related financial impact on our business could change and cannot be accurately predicted at this time. Operations The COVID-19 pandemic has also had and continues to have a significant impact on our business operations, including with respect to employee availability and productivity, temporary increases in regulatory restrictions on operating activities (e.g., moratoria, rate actions or claim practices) that may impact our profitability, the availability and performance of third party vendors, including technology development, home inspections and repairs, and marketing programs. We may also be impacted by cybersecurity risks related to our new dependency on a remote workforce. Our Investment Portfolio We seek to hold a high-quality, diversified portfolio of investments. During economic downturns, certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition or due to deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuers payments on such investments. Given the conservative nature of our investment portfolio, we do not expect a material adverse impact on the value of our 32 investment portfolio or a long-term negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows as it relates to COVID-19. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, our business has continued to grow. We write and place home insurance and other insurance products from our agencies that have so far been largely unaffected by COVID-19. Our systems are entirely cloud-based and accessible to our teams from any browser anywhere in the world. Customers phone calls are routed to our teams laptops and answered and logged from wherever they happen to be. Internal communication has been via email, Slack, and Zoom since our founding. Our teams are able to access systems, support customers and collaborate with each other from anywhere, much as they did before the pandemic. Our customers experience has also been largely unaffected by COVID-19 related disruptions We have initiated virtual inspections for our underwriting requirements and claims processing to keep our employees, agents, policy holders and potential policy holders safe. Key Factors and Trends Affecting our Operating Results Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and will continue to be, affected by a number of factors, including the following: Our Ability to Attract New Customers Our long-term growth will depend, in large part, on our continued ability to attract new customers to our platform. We intend to continue to drive new customer growth by highlighting our consumer-focused approach to homeowners insurance across multiple distribution channels. In particular: Our growth strategy is centered around accelerating our existing position in markets that we already serve by increasing our direct-to-consumer advertising, increasing the number of agents selling Hippo policies, and growing our network of partners within existing partner channels. In addition to efforts in states where we are currently selling insurance, we also expect to drive growth by expanding into new markets across the United States and by continuing to develop new strategic partnerships with key players involved in the real estate transaction ecosystem. Finally, we plan to deepen our relationships with our customers by offering value-added services, both directly and through partners, that are not specifically insurance products like home maintenance, home monitoring, and home appliance warranties. Our ability to attract new customers depends on the pricing of our products, the offerings of our competitors, our ability to expand into new markets, and the effectiveness of our marketing efforts. Our ability to attract customers also depends on maintaining and strengthening our brand by providing superior customer experiences through our proactive, tech-enabled strategy. We face competition from traditional insurers who have more diverse product offerings and longer established operating histories, as well as from new, technology-driven entrants who may pursue more horizontal growth strategies. These competitors may mimic certain aspects of our digital platform and offerings and as they have more types of insurance products and can offer customers the ability to bundle multiple coverage types together, which may be attractive to many customers. Our Ability to Retain Customers Our ability to derive significant lifetime value from our customer relationships depends, in part, on our ability to retain our customers over time. Strong retention allows us to build a recurring revenue base, generating additional premium term over term without material incremental marketing costs. Our customers typically become 33 more valuable to us over time because retention rates have historically increased with the age of customer cohorts and because non-catastrophic loss frequency declines as cohorts mature. As we expect to broadly retain our customers, we expect our book of business to evolve to be weighted more towards renewals versus new business over time, as is the case with our more mature competitors. We expect that this would enable us to benefit from the higher premium retention rates and inherently lower frequency of losses that characterize renewed premiums. Our ability to retain customers will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our products, offerings of our competitors, and our ability to continue delivering exceptional customer service and support. Our Ability to Expand Nationally Across the United States We believe that national expansion will be a key driver of the long-term success of our business. As of September 30, 2021, we were authorized to sell Hippo Homeowners policies in 37 states. We expect to apply our highly scalable model nationally, with a tailored approach to each state that is driven by the regulatory environment and local market dynamics. We hope to expand rapidly and efficiently across different geographies while maintaining a high level of control over the specific strategy within each state. We expect to benefit from our ability to provide insurance across an increasing number of states in the United States. State expansion should create a broader base from which to grow while increasing the geographic diversity in our base of customers and premium. We expect that this greater diversity will reduce the impact of catastrophic weather events in any one geographic region on our overall loss ratio, improving the predictability of our financial results over time as we scale. We believe that increased geographic diversity will also improve our ability to secure attractive terms from reinsurers, which would improve our overall cost structure and profitability. Our Ability to Expand Fee Income and Premium Through Cross-Sales to Existing Customers Our strategy to increase the value we are providing to our customers is to offer incremental services to assist our customers in better maintaining and protecting their homes. As we roll out these services, we expect to be able to generate incremental, non-risk-based service and fee income from our existing customers. We expect these home protection services not only to generate incremental revenue, but also to reduce losses for our customers, andby implicationour loss ratios. Our success in expanding revenue and reducing losses by offering these services depends on our ability to market these services, our operational ability to deliver value to our customers, and the ability of these services to reduce the probability of loss for an average homeowner. We are also in the early stages of cross-selling non-homeowner insurance products across our customer base. Cross-sales allow us to generate additional premium per customer, and ultimately higher revenue and fee income, without material incremental marketing spend. Our success in expanding revenue through cross-sales depends on our marketing efforts with new products, offerings of our competitors, additional expansion into new states, and the pricing of our bundled products. Our Ability to Manage Risk We leverage data, technology, and geographic diversity to help manage risk. For instance, we obtain dynamic data from various sources and use advanced statistical methods to model that data into our pricing algorithm. Incorporating these external data sources and utilizing the experience gained with our own customer base will lead to better underwriting, reduced loss frequency, andadjusting for weather related eventslower loss ratios over time. While our current reinsurance framework helps us manage the volatility of earnings, reducing our overall gross loss ratio is critical to our success. Our ability to incorporate new data sources as they become available and to use them to improve our ability to accurately and competitively price risk is central to our growth strategy. 34 Seasonality of Customer Acquisition Seasonal patterns can impact both our rate of customer acquisition and the incurrence of claims losses. Based on historical experience, existing and potential customers move more frequently during the summer months of the year, compared to the rest of the calendar year. As a result, we may see greater demand for new or expanded insurance coverage, and increased engagement resulting in proportionately more growth during the third quarter. We expect that as we grow, expand geographically, and launch new products, the impact of seasonal variability on our rate of growth may decrease. Additionally, seasonal weather patterns impact the level and amount of claims we receive. These patterns include hurricanes, wildfires, and coastal storms in the fall, cold weather patterns and changing home heating needs in the winter, and tornados and hailstorms in the spring and summer. The mix of geographic exposure and products within our customer base impacts our exposure to these weather patterns, and as we diversify our base of premium such that our exposure more closely resembles the industry exposure, we should see the impact of these events on our business more closely resemble the impact on the broader industry. A More Diverse and Resilient Business Model There are four components in our economic model: 1. MGA 2. Agency 3. Insurance as a Service 4. Risk Retention Prior to our acquisition of Spinnaker on August 31, 2020, our economics were driven by our MGA and Agency business. We now have a more diverse and resilient model, as well as the infrastructure to support our growth. This structural evolution of our business model has several implications: 1. Substantive: We are retaining more risk on our balance sheet and accordingly both our net earned premium and our Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses are expected to be higher. 2. Financial presentation: The direct acquisition costs associated with the premium written on our carrier will shift from sales and marketing to insurance related expense and will be offset by the corresponding ceding commission and amortized over the lifetime of the policy. Only the excess of ceding commission over our direct acquisition costs will be recognized as revenue. All else being equal, for the exact same amount of premium we expect: a. our ceding commission will be lower b. our sales and marketing expense will be lower c. our bottom line results will be unchanged When comparing our year-over-year financial results and analyzing trends, we need to take into consideration these structural changes and their implications. We utilize a non-GAAP measure Adjusted EBITDA to measure our operating profitability. See the section entitled Hippo Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Operating and Financial Metrics and Non-GAAP Measures Adjusted EBITDA. Acquisition of Spinnaker Insurance Company In August 2020, we completed the acquisition of Spinnaker, giving us direct control over the insurance and reinsurance placement aspect of our business. We believe the Spinnaker acquisition will enable us to maintain a 35 capital-light model while retaining risk in a way that aligns our interests with those of the reinsurance market. We also believe it will benefit our economics; while we expect to continue writing business on third party carriers, we will no longer need to pay a fee to third parties for carrier services on the portion of business we write on Spinnaker. Our financial results in 2021 will reflect the full year of Spinnakers operations compared to a partial year in 2020. For more information, see the section titled Results of Operations below. Prior to the Spinnaker acquisition, Hippo received MGA commission income for the policies placed by Hippo on Spinnaker paper, and we recognized this commission income at the policy effective dates, net of risk retained by Hippo. The expense incurred for third-party sales commissions (i.e., acquisition costs) was presented on a gross basis in the statement of operations for the period January 1, 2020 to August 31, 2020, and was included in sales and marketing line item and was not offset against the commission revenue. After the acquisition, we have consolidated the results of Spinnaker which impact our results of operations as follows: Premium for the risk retained by us is recognized on a pro-rata basis over the policy period. Ceding commission on premium ceded to third party reinsurers is deferred as a liability and recognized on a pro-rata basis over the term of the policy, net of acquisition costs. To the extent ceding commission received exceeds direct acquisition costs, the excess is presented as revenue in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The consolidated company (Hippo and Spinnaker) began to earn ceding commission on premium ceded to third party reinsurers in September 2020 and the ceding commission is recognized net of acquisition costs, on a pro-rata basis over the term of the policy. Acquisition costs incurred to acquire the Spinnaker policies are deferred and amortized over the term of the policies. Those costs include sales commissions, premium taxes, and board and bureau fees. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs is included in insurance related expenses on the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Loss and LAE incurred, net of losses ceded to reinsurers, will be reflected in the statement of operations for the risk we retain on the Spinnaker policies. Investment income, net representing interest earned from fixed maturity securities, short-term securities and other investments, and the gains or losses from the sale of investments is presented as part of revenue. Ba sis of Presentation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP as determined by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), and pursuant to the regulations of the SEC. Key GAAP Financial Terms Gross Written Premium Gross written premium is the amount received or to be received for insurance policies written or assumed by us and our affiliates as a carrier, without reduction for policy acquisition costs, reinsurance costs, or other deductions. In addition, gross written premium includes amounts received from our participation in our own reinsurance treaty. The volume of our gross written premium in any given period is generally influenced by: New business submissions; Binding of new business submissions into policies; Bound policies going effective; Renewals of existing policies; and Average size and premium rate of bound policies. 36 Ceded Written Premium Ceded written premium is the amount of gross written premium written or assumed by us and our affiliates as a carrier that we cede to reinsurers. We enter into reinsurance contracts to limit our exposure to losses, as well as to provide additional capacity for growth. Ceded written premium is treated as a reduction from gross written premium written during a specific period of time over the reinsurance contract period in proportion to the period of risk covered. The volume of our ceded written premium is impacted by the level of our gross written premium and decisions we make to increase or decrease retention levels. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Net Earned Premium Net earned premium represents the earned portion of our gross written premium for insurance policies written or assumed by us and less ceded written premium (any portion of our gross written premium that is ceded to third-party reinsurers under our reinsurance agreements). We earn written premiums on a pro-rata basis over the term of the policies. Commission Income, Net Includes: a. MGA Commission: We operate as an MGA for multiple insurers. We design and underwrite insurance products on behalf of the insurers culminating in the sale of insurance policies. We earn recurring commission and policy fees associated with the policies we sell. While we have underwriting authority and responsibility for administering claims, we do not take the risk associated with policies on our own balance sheet. Rather, we work with carrier platforms and a diversified panel of highly rated reinsurance companies who pay us commission in exchange for the opportunity to take that risk on their balance sheets. Our performance obligation associated with these contracts is the placement of the policy, which is met on the effective date. Upon issuance of a new policy, we charge policy fees and inspection fees (see Service and Fee Income below), retain our share of ceding commission, and remit the balance premium to the respective insurers. Subsequent ceding commission adjustments arising from policy changes such as endorsements are recognized when the adjustments can be reasonably estimated. b. Agency Commission: We also operate licensed insurance agencies that are engaged solely in the sale of policies, including non-Hippo policies. For these policies, we earn a recurring agency commission from the carriers whose policies we sell, which is recorded in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Similar to the MGA businesses, the performance obligation from the agency contracts is placement of the insurance policies. For both MGA and insurance agency activities, we recognize commission received from insurers for the sale of insurance contracts as revenue at a point in time on the policy effective dates. Cash received in advance of policy effective dates is recorded on the consolidated balance sheets, representing our portion of commission and premium due to insurers and reinsurers, and hold this cash in trust for the benefit of the insurers and reinsurers as fiduciary liabilities. The MGA commission is subject to adjustments, higher or lower (commonly referred to as commission slide), depending on the underwriting performance of the policies placed by us. We are required to return a portion of our MGA commission due to commission slide received on the policies placed by MGA if the underwriting performance varies due to higher Hippo programs loss ratio from contractual performance of the Hippo programs loss ratio or if the policies are cancelled before the term of the policy; accordingly, we reserve for commission slide using estimated Hippo programs loss ratio performance, and a cancellation reserve is estimated as a reduction of revenue for each period presented in our statement of operations and comprehensive loss. c. Ceding Commission: We receive commission based on the premium we cede to third-party reinsurers for the reimbursement for our acquisition and underwriting services. Excess of ceding commission over the cost of acquisition is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. For the policies that we write on our own carrier as MGA, we recognize this 37 commission as ceding commission on the statement of operations and comprehensive loss. We earn commission on reinsurance premium ceded in a manner consistent with the recognition of the earned premium on the underlying insurance policies, on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies reinsured. We record the portion of ceding commission income, which represents reimbursement of successful direct acquisition costs related to the underlying policies as an offset to the applicable direct acquisition costs. d. Carrier Fronting Fees: Through our insurance-as-a-service business we earn recurring fees from the MGA programs we support. We earn fronting fees in a manner consistent with the recognition of the earned premium on the underlying insurance policies, on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. This revenue is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. e. Claim Processing Fees: As an MGA, we receive a fee that is calculated as a percent of the premium from the insurers in exchange for providing claims adjudication services. The claims adjudication services are provided over the term of the policy, and recognized ratably over the same period. This revenue is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Service and Fee Income Service and fee income mainly represents policy fees and other revenue. We directly bill policyholders for policy fees and collect and retain fees per the terms of the contracts between us and our insurers. Similar to the commission revenue, we estimate a cancellation reserve for policy fees using historical information. The performance obligation associated with these fees is satisfied at a point in time upon completion of the underwriting process, which is the policy effective date. Accordingly, we recognize all fees as revenue on the policy effective date. Net Investment Income Net investment income represents interest earned from fixed maturity securities, short-term securities and other investments, and the gains or losses from the sale of investments. Our cash and invested assets primarily consist of fixed-maturity securities, and may also include cash and cash equivalents, equity securities, and short-term investments. The principal factors that influence net investment income are the size of our investment portfolio and the yield on that portfolio. As measured by amortized cost (which excludes changes in fair value, such as changes in interest rates), the size of our investment portfolio is mainly a function of our invested equity capital along with premium we receive from our customers less payments on customer claims. Net investment income also includes an insignificant amount of net realized gains (losses) on investments, which are a function of the difference between the amount received by us on the sale of a security and the securitys amortized cost, as well as any allowances for credit losses recognized in earnings, if any. Expenses Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses Loss and loss adjustment expenses represent the costs incurred for losses net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. We enter into reinsurance contracts to limit our exposure to potential losses as well as to provide additional capacity for growth. These expenses are a function of the size and term of the insurance policies and the loss experience associated with the underlying risks. LAE are based on actuarial assumptions and management judgements, including losses incurred during the period and changes in estimates from prior periods. Loss and LAE also include employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) of our claims processing teams, as well as allocated occupancy costs and related overhead based on headcount. Insurance Related Expenses Insurance related expenses primarily consist of amortization of direct acquisition commission costs and premium taxes incurred on the successful acquisition of business written on a direct basis and credit card processing fees not charged to our customers. Insurance related expenses also include employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) of our underwriting teams, as well as allocated occupancy costs and related 38 overhead based on headcount. Insurance related expenses are offset by the portion of ceding commission income, which represents reimbursement of successful acquisition costs related to the underlying policies. Additionally, insurance related expenses include the costs of providing bound policies and delivering claims services to our customers. These costs include underwriting technology service costs including software, data services used for performing underwriting, and third-party call center costs in addition to personnel-related costs. In 2019, insurance related expenses were primarily comprised of the costs of providing bound policies and delivering claims services to the Companys customers. These costs include technology service costs, including software, data services, and third-party call center costs in addition to personnel-related costs. We believe these technology service costs represent insurance related costs and might be misleading to a reader on a comparative basis if not recorded in insurance related costs. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for our technology staff, which includes information technology development, infrastructure support, actuarial, and third-party services. Technology and development also include allocated facility costs and related overhead based on headcount. We expense development costs as incurred, except for costs related to internal-use software development projects, which are capitalized and subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the developed software. We expect our technology and development costs to increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and develop activities to achieve our technology development roadmap. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of sales commission, advertising costs, and marketing expenditures, as well as employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for employees engaged in sales, marketing, data analytics, and customer acquisition. We expense advertising costs as incurred. Sales and marketing also include allocated facility costs and related overhead based on headcount. We plan to continue to invest in sales and marketing to attract and acquire new customers and to increase our brand awareness. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase over time as we continue to hire additional personnel to scale our business, increase commission payments to our produces and partners as a result of our premium growth, and invest in developing a nationally-recognized brand. We expect that sales and marketing costs will increase in absolute dollars in future periods and vary from period-to-period as a percentage of revenue in the near-term. We expect thatin the long-termour sales and marketing costs will decrease as a percentage of revenue as we continue to drive customer acquisition efficiencies and as the proportion of renewals to our total business increases. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for our finance, human resources, legal, and general management functions, as well as facilities and professional services. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we scale headcount with the growth of our business, and as a result of operating as a public company, including compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC and other regulatory bodies, legal, audit, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities, and other administrative and professional services. Interest and Other (Income) Expense Interest and other (income) expense primarily consist of interest expense incurred for the convertible promissory notes, and fair value adjustments on preferred stock warrant liabilities, gains or losses on debt extinguishment, and embedded derivative on convertible promissory notes. The convertible promissory notes converted into equity immediately prior to the closing of the merger with RTPZ, eliminating the associated interest expense for the future periods after the consummation of the merger. Income Taxes We record income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we record deferred income tax assets and liabilities based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between the financial 39 statement and income tax basis of existing assets and liabilities. We measure these differences using the enacted statutory tax rates that are expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which differences are expected to reverse. We recognize the effect on deferred income taxes of a change in tax rates in income in the period that includes the enactment date. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets and liabilities to the net amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations, and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Key Operating and Financial Metrics and Non-GAAP Measures We regularly review the following key operating and financial metrics in order to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends in our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. The non-GAAP financial measure below has not been calculated in accordance with GAAP and should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an indicator of our operating performance, liquidity, or cash flows generated by operating, investing, and financing activities, as there may be significant factors or trends that they fail to address. We caution investors that non-GAAP financial informationby its naturedeparts from traditional accounting conventions. Therefore, its use can make it difficult to compare our current results with our results from other reporting periods and with the results of other companies. Our management uses the non-GAAP financial measures, in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as an integral part of managing our business and to, among other things: (i) monitor and evaluate the performance of our business operations and financial performance; (ii) facilitate internal comparisons of the historical operating performance of our business operations; (iii) review and assess the operating performance of our management team; (iv) analyze and evaluate financial and strategic planning decisions regarding future operating investments; and (v) plan for and prepare future annual operating budgets and determine appropriate levels of operating investments. The results of Spinnaker Insurance Company since the date of acquisition (August 31, 2020) have been consolidated with ours and are reflected in the following table. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2021 2020 2021 2020 ($ in millions) Total Generated Premium $ 161.7 $ 83.2 $ 443.5 $ 227.6 Total Revenue 21.3 13.0 59.1 35.2 Net Loss attributable to Hippo (30.9) (38.6) (310.7) (87.4) Adjusted EBITDA (48.4) (23.9) (126.4) (64.3) Gross Loss Ratio 128 % 155 % 158 % 147 % Net Loss Ratio 241 % 185 % 217 % 160 % Total Generated Premium We define Total Generated Premium (TGP) as the aggregate written premium placed across all of our business platforms for the period presented. We measure TGP as it reflects the volume of our business irrespective of choices related to how we structure our reinsurance treaties, the amount of risk we retain on our own balance sheet, or the amount of business written in our capacity as an MGA, agency, or as an insurance carrier/reinsurer. We calculate TGP as the sum of: 40 i) Gross written premium (GWP) a GAAP measure defined below; and ii) Gross placed premium premium of policies placed with third-party insurance companies, for which we do not retain insurance risk and for which we earn a commission payment, and policy fees charged by us to the policyholders on the effective date of the policy. Our Total Generated Premium for the three months ended September 30, 2021 grew 94% year-over-year to $161.7 million from $83.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The growth was driven primarily by growth across channels in existing states, expansion into 6 new states compared to the three months ended September 30, 2020, expansion of our independent agent network, launch of new strategic partnerships, maintaining solid premium retention levels, and growth of non-Hippo written premium supported by our insurance company Spinnaker. Our Total Generated Premium for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 grew 95% year-over-year to $443.5 million from $227.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The growth was driven primarily by growth across channels in existing states, expansion into 6 new states compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2021, expansion of our independent agent network, launch of new strategic partnerships, maintaining solid premium retention levels, and growth of non-Hippo written premium supported by our insurance company Spinnaker. Our Total Generated Premium for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 does not include $24.0 million and $71.8 million, respectively, of written premium from non-Hippo programs written by Spinnaker prior to the acquisition which closed on August 31, 2020. The following table presents Total Generated Premium for the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2021 2020 Change 2021 2020 Change Gross Written Premium $ 129.0 $ 28.9 $ 100.1 $ 356.7 $ 43.5 $ 313.2 Gross Placed Premium 32.7 54.3 (21.6) 86.8 184.1 (97.3) Total Generated Premium $ 161.7 $ 83.2 $ 78.5 $ 443.5 $ 227.6 $ 215.9 The decrease in Gross Placed Premium is a direct result of the Spinnaker acquisition. After the acquisition, premium that would have been placed on Spinnaker and included in Gross Placed Premium is now recognized as Gross Written Premium. Total Revenue For the three months ended September 30, 2021, total revenue was $21.3 million, an increase of $8.3 million compared to $13.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. This increase was driven by increases in net earned premium and service and fee income of $6.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, total revenue was $59.1 million, an increase of $23.9 million compared to $35.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. This increase was driven by increases in net earned premium and service and fee income of $21.2 million and $6.9 million, respectively. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease in net commission income of $3.6 million as a result of the Spinnaker acquisition. Net Loss Attributable to Hippo Net loss attributable to Hippo is calculated in accordance with GAAP as total revenue less total expenses and taxes and net of net income attributable to non-controlling interest, net of tax. 41 For the three months ended September 30, 2021, net loss attributable to Hippo was $30.9 million, a decrease of $7.7 million compared to $38.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. This was primarily driven by an decrease in other (income) expense of $26.5 million due to a gain on the extinguishment of the convertible notes. This amount was partially offset by an increase in losses and loss adjustment expense of $17.6 million as a result of the growth in our business in which we retain risk and loss participation clauses in several of our proportional reinsurance treaties. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, net loss attributable to Hippo was $310.7 million, an increase of $223.3 million compared to $87.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. This was primarily driven by an increase in interest and other (income) expense of $152.3 million, due to an increase in fair value losses recorded on preferred stock warrants and the derivative liability on our convertible promissory notes, and interest expense. In addition, there was an increase in losses and loss adjustment expense of $51.1 million due the growth in our business in which we retain risk, abnormally high weather-related losses, including the Texas winter storm in February 2021 (Uri), and a higher concentration in areas impacted by the weather-related losses. There was also an increase in sales and marketing expense of $16.4 million. Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), a Non-GAAP financial measure, as net loss attributable to Hippo excluding interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, net investment income, other non-cash fair market value adjustments for outstanding preferred stock warrants and derivative liabilities on the convertible promissory notes, and contingent consideration for one of our acquisitions and other transactions that we consider to be unique in nature. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, adjusted EBITDA loss was $48.4 million, an increase of $24.5 million compared to $23.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020, due primarily to an increase in our loss and loss adjustment expense due to the growth in our business in which we retain risk. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, adjusted EBITDA loss was $126.4 million, an increase of $62.1 million compared to $64.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, due primarily to an increase in our loss and loss adjustment expense due to the growth in our business in which we retain risk, 42 abnormally high weather-related losses, including Uri, and a higher concentration in areas impacted by the weather-related losses. The following table provides a reconciliation from net loss attributable to Hippo to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2021 2020 2021 2020 Net loss attributable to Hippo $ (30.9) $ (38.6) $ (310.7) $ (87.4) Adjustments: Net investment income (0.1) (0.2) (0.2) (0.8) Depreciation and amortization 2.7 1.7 7.7 4.7 Interest expense 4.2 26.1 Stock-based compensation 4.5 13.2 9.8 15.0 Fair value adjustments 16.2 177.3 4.2 Gain on extinguishment of convertible promissory notes (47.0) (47.0) Contingent consideration charge 0.8 1.9 2.1 1.9 Other one-off transactions 1.1 8.1 Income taxes (benefit) expense 0.1 (1.9) 0.4 (1.9) Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ (48.4) $ (23.9) $ (126.4) $ (64.3) (1) In previous disclosures, our Adjusted EBITDA calculation included an adjustment for capitalization of internal use software costs. We no longer include this adjustment, as we believe the current presentation is more relevant and in-line with our peers and relevant comparable companies. We have adjusted the historical periods accordingly. Gross Loss Ratio Gross Loss Ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the Gross Losses and LAE to the Gross Earned Premium (in millions). Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2021 2020 2021 2020 Gross Losses and LAE $ 130.0 $ 37.4 $ 416.2 $ 42.6 Gross Earned Premium 101.2 24.2 262.7 29.0 Gross Loss Ratio 128 % 155 % 158 % 147 % 43 The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross Loss Ratio by named event Property Claims Services PCS and non-PCS events. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2021 2020 2021 2020 PCS component of gross loss ratio 50 % 75 % 90 % 73 % Large loss component of the gross loss ratio (1) 15 % 12 % 13 % 13 % Non-PCS, non-large loss component of gross loss ratio 63 % 68 % 55 % 61 % Gross loss ratio 128 % 155 % 158 % 147 % (1) Defined as the excess portion of non-weather losses in excess of $0.1 million loss and allocated loss adjustment expense per claim For the three months ended September 30, 2021, our Gross Loss Ratio was 128% compared with 155% for the three months ended September 30, 2020. This was primarily driven by a decrease in the impact of PCS catastrophic events, supported by our ongoing effort to diversify our book geographically, as well as a decrease of 5 percentage points in other attritional losses driven by our continuously improved underwriting process. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, our Gross Loss Ratio was 158% compared with 147% for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due to the impact of abnormal PCS catastrophic events primarily in the first six months of 2021, including the Texas winter storm Uri in February 2021. Excluding the impact of Texas winter storm Uri, our Gross Loss Ratio for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 would have been 122%. Net Loss Ratio Net loss ratio expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the net losses and LAE, to the net earned premium (in millions). Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2021 2020 2021 2020 Net Losses and LAE $ 26.3 $ 8.7 $ 65.0 $ 13.9 Net Earned Premium 10.9 4.7 29.9 8.7 Net Loss Ratio 241 % 185 % 217 % 160 % For the three months ended September 30, 2021, our Net Loss Ratio was 241% compared with 185% for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due prim arily to an increase in our loss and loss adjustment expense as a result of the growth in our business in which we retain risk and loss participation clauses in several of our proportional reinsurance treaties . For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, our Net Loss Ratio was 217% compared with 160% for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to the impact of abnormally high PCS catastrophic events, including the Texas winter storm Uri in February 2021. 44 Results of Operations The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-1(File No. 333-259040) filed with the SEC on August 24, 2021 . The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations data for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2021 2020 Change % Change 2021 2020 Change % Change Revenue: Net earned premium $ 10.9 $ 4.7 $ 6.2 132 % $ 29.9 $ 8.7 $ 21.2 244 % Commission income, net . 6.6 6.3 0.3 5 % 18.2 21.8 (3.6) (17) % Service and fee income 3.7 1.8 1.9 106 % 10.8 3.9 6.9 177 % Net investment income 0.1 0.2 (0.1) (50) % 0.2 0.8 (0.6) (75) % Total revenue . 21.3 13.0 8.3 64 % 59.1 35.2 23.9 68 % Expenses: Losses and loss adjustment expenses 26.3 8.7 17.6 202 % 65.0 13.9 51.1 368 % Insurance related expenses 7.1 5.2 1.9 37 % 23.2 13.0 10.2 78 % Technology and development 8.3 5.7 2.6 46 % 22.7 13.2 9.5 72 % Sales and marketing 22.4 17.6 4.8 27 % 69.3 52.9 16.4 31 % General and administrative 13.4 16.2 (2.8) (17) % 30.6 27.3 3.3 12 % Interest and other (income) expense (26.4) 0.1 (26.5) (26500) % 156.5 4.2 152.3 3626 % Total expenses 51.1 53.5 (2.4) (4) % 367.3 124.5 242.8 195 % Loss before income taxes (29.8) (40.5) 10.7 (26) % (308.2) (89.3) (218.9) 245 % Income taxes (benefit) expense 0.1 (1.9) 2.0 (105) % 0.4 (1.9) 2.3 (121) % Net loss (29.9) (38.6) 8.7 (23) % (308.6) (87.4) (221.2) 253 % Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of tax 1.0 1.0 N/A 2.1 2.1 N/A Net loss attributable to Hippo $ (30.9) $ (38.6) $ 7.7 (20) % $ (310.7) $ (87.4) $ (223.3) 255 % Other comprehensive income: Change in net unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities, net of tax (0.1) (0.2) 0.1 (50) % (0.4) (0.2) (0.2) 100 % Comprehensive loss attributable to Hippo $ (31.0) $ (38.8) $ 7.8 (20) % $ (311.1) $ (87.6) $ (223.5) 255 % 45 Comparison of the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2021 and 2020 Net Earned Premium For the three months ended September 30, 2021, net earned premium was $10.9 million, an increase of $6.2 million compared to $4.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, net earned premium was $29.9 million, an increase of $21.2 million compared to $8.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The three and nine month increases are due to year-over-year growth of our total book of business and our acquisition of Spinnaker, which closed on August 31, 2020. The following table presents gross written premium, ceded written premium, net written premium, change in unearned premium, and net earned premium for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020 (in millions). Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2021 2020 Change 2021 2020 Change Gross written premium $ 129.0 $ 28.9 $ 100.1 $ 356.7 $ 43.5 $ 313.2 Ceded written premium 123.1 19.0 104.1 331.5 21.0 310.5 Net written premium 5.9 9.9 (4.0) 25.2 22.5 2.7 Change in unearned premium 5.0 (5.2) 10.2 4.7 (13.8) 18.5 Net earned premium $ 10.9 $ 4.7 $ 6.2 $ 29.9 $ 8.7 $ 21.2 Commission Income, Net For the three months ended September 30, 2021, commission income was $6.6 million, an increase of $0.3 million, or 5%, compared to $6.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to increased ceding commission and agency commission of $3.1 million and $1.3 million, respectively. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease in our MGA commission of $4.1 million, as direct result of the structural change in our business due to the acquisition of Spinnaker. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, commission income was $18.2 million, a decrease of $3.6 million, or 17%, compared to $21.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. This is a direct result of the structural change in our business due to the acquisition of Spinnaker, which led to a decrease in our MGA commission of $14.7 million. This amount was partially offset by an increase in ceding commission and agency commissions of $8.7 million and $2.4 million, respectively. Service and Fee Income For the three months ended September 30, 2021, service and fee income was $3.7 million, an increase of $1.9 million, or 106%, compared to $1.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to increased policy fees and other revenue due to an increase in the volume of policies placed by our MGA services. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, service and fee income was $10.8 million, an increase of $6.9 million, or 177%, compared to $3.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to increased policy fees and other revenue due to an increase in the volume of policies placed by our MGA services. Net Investment Income For the three months ended September 30, 2021, net investment income was $0.1 million, a decrease of $0.1 million, compared to $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in interest rates compared to the same period in the prior year. We mainly invested in 46 corporate securities, residential mortgage-backed securities, and other fixed maturities securities issued by the U.S. government and agencies. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, net investment income was $0.2 million, a decrease of $0.6 million, compared to $0.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in interest rates compared to the same period in the prior year. We mainly invested in corporate securities, residential mortgage-backed securities, and other fixed maturities securities issued by the U.S government and agencies. Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2021, loss and loss adjustment expenses were $26.3 million, an increase of $17.6 million, compared to $8.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to an increase in our loss and loss adjustment expense as a result of the growth in our business in which we retain risk and loss participation clauses in several of our proportional reinsurance treaties. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, loss and loss adjustment expenses were $65.0 million, an increase of $51.1 million, compared to $13.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to an increase in our loss and loss adjustment expense as a result of the growth in our business in which we retain risk as well as loss participation clauses in several of our proportional reinsurance treaties, abnormally high weather-related losses, including the Texas winter storm in February 2021, and a higher concentration in areas impacted by PCS catastrophic related losses. Insurance Related Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2021, insurance related expenses were $7.1 million, an increase of $1.9 million, or 37%, compared to $5.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to a $1.3 million increase in amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, $0.9 million increase in underwriting costs, $0.6 million increase in amortization expense attributable to capitalized internal use software, and $0.4 million increase in employee-related costs. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease of $1.9 million in profit sharing expenses. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, insurance related expenses were $23.2 million, an increase of $10.2 million or 78%, compared to $13.0 million, for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to a $3.2 million increase in amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, $2.4 million increase in underwriting costs, $1.7 million increase in employee-related costs, and $1.6 million increase in amortization expense attributable to capitalized internal use software. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease of $2.1 million in profit sharing expenses. The primary components of insurance related expenses are listed below (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2021 2020 2021 2020 Underwriting costs $ 2.0 $ 1.1 $ 5.6 $ 3.2 Amortization of capitalized internal use software 1.3 0.7 3.4 1.8 Employee-related costs 1.4 1.0 4.4 2.7 Amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, net 1.9 0.6 4.9 1.6 Other 0.5 1.8 4.9 3.7 Total $ 7.1 $ 5.2 $ 23.2 $ 13.0 47 Deferred direct acquisition costs were $12.1 million and $22.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021, of which $10.2 million and $17.9 million were offset by ceding commission income. Deferred direct acquisition costs were $0.6 million and $1.6 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, of which $0 million was offset by ceding commission income. Technology and Development Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2021, technology and development expenses were $8.3 million, an increase of $2.6 million, or 46%, compared to $5.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to an increase in employee-related costs of $3.6 million, driven by an increase in headcount to support our long-term product roadmap and business growth, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation of $0.8 million. The increase was also driven by a $0.8 million increase in consulting and professional services in support of our growth initiatives. These amounts were partially offset by an increase in capitalized costs for the development of internal-use software of $1.8 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, technology and development expenses were $22.7 million, an increase of $9.5 million, or 72%, compared to $13.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to an increase in employee-related costs of $9.8 million, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $0.2 million, driven by an increase in headcount to support our long-term product roadmap and business growth. The increase was also driven by a $1.5 million increase in consulting and professional services in support of our growth initiatives. These amounts were partially offset by an increase in capitalized costs for the development of internal-use software of $3.5 million. Sales and Marketing Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2021, sales and marketing expenses were $22.4 million, an increase of $4.8 million, or 27%, compared to $17.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to an increase in employee-related expenses of $3.4 million, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $0.5 million, driven by an increase in headcount to support our growth, and a $4.6 million increase in advertising costs. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease in direct acquisition costs of $5.2 million, which have now been deferred and the related amortization included in insurance related expenses after the acquisition of Spinnaker in the third quarter of 2020. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, sales and marketing expenses were $69.3 million, an increase of $16.4 million, or 31%, compared to $52.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to an increase in employee-related expenses of $9.4 million, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $2.3 million, driven by an increase in headcount to support our growth, an increase of $12.4 million in advertising costs, an increase of $7.0 million in service fees related to the issuance of a convertible promissory note, and an increase of $1.5 million in licensing fees. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease in direct acquisition costs of $20.1 million, which have now been deferred and the related amortization included in insurance related expenses after the acquisition of Spinnaker in the third quarter of 2020. General and Administrative Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2021, general and administrative expenses were $13.4 million, a decrease of $2.8 million, or 17%, compared to $16.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in stock-based compensation of $8.1 million due to a charge for the secondary sale of equity holdings by certain of our employees in the prior year. This amount was partially offset by an increase in other employee-related expenses of $3.1 million, driven by an increase in headcount to support our growth, an increase in professional services expense of $1.3 million, and an increase in corporate and directors and officers insurance expense of $1.2 million, related to the increased cost of public company requirements. 48 For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, general and administrative expenses were $30.6 million, an increase of $3.3 million, or 12%, compared to $27.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to an increase in professional services expense of $2.8 million and an increase in corporate and directors and officers insurance expense of $1.2 million, related to the increased cost of public company requirements. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease in employee-related expenses of $0.1 million comprised of a decrease in stock-based compensation of $7.1 million due to a charge for the secondary sale of equity holdings by certain of our employees in the prior year and an increase of $7.0 million in other employee-related expenses, driven by an increase in headcount to support our growth. Interest and Other (Income) Expense For the three months ended September 30, 2021, interest and other (income) expenses were income of $26.4 million, an increase of $26.5 million compared to an expense of $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to a gain on the extinguishment of the convertible notes and related derivative liability of $47.0 million and a fair value gain on the outstanding Public and Private Placement Warrants of $5.6 million. These amounts were partially offset by an increase in fair value losses recorded on preferred stock warrants of $7.0 million due to the increase in the fair market value of our preferred stock and an increase in fair value losses recorded on the derivative liability on our convertible promissory notes of $14.9 million, from June 30, 2021 to the Business Combination closing date of August 2, 2021, the date of exercise and/or settlement of those instruments. We also recorded interest expense on the convertible promissory notes of $4.2 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, interest and other (income) expense was $156.5 million, an increase of $152.3 million compared to $4.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due primarily to an increase in fair value losses recorded on preferred stock warrants of $117.4 million due to the increase in the fair market value of our preferred stock and an increase in fair value losses recorded on the derivative liability on our convertible promissory notes of $61.4 million from December 31, 2021 to the Business Combination closing date of August 2, 2021, the date of exercise and/or settlement of those instruments. We also recorded interest expense on the convertible promissory notes of $26.1 million. These amounts were partially offset by a gain on the extinguishment of the convertible notes and related derivative liability of $47.0 million and a fair value gain on the Public and Private Placement Warrants of $5.6 million. Income Taxes For the three months ended September 30, 2021, income tax expense was $0.1 million, an increase of $2.0 million, compared to a benefit of $1.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, income tax expense was $0.4 million, an increase of $2.3 million, compared to a benefit of $1.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including the volume of issuance of insurance policies, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, investments in information technology systems, and the expansion of sales and marketing activities. Until we can generate sufficient revenue and other income to cover operating expenses, working capital, and capital expenditures, we expect the funds raised in our preferred stock financings, convertible notes financings, the PIPE Investment, and the Business Combination to fund our cash needs. In the future, we may raise additional funds through the issuance of debt or equity securities or through borrowing. We cannot assure that such funds will be available on favorable terms, or at all. On July 8, 2020, we issued shares of our Series E Convertible Preferred Stock for aggregate proceeds of $150 million. 49 In November and December 2020, we raised an additional $365.0 million of cash by issuing convertible promissory notes. In August 2021, we completed the Business Combination. In connection with this transaction, we received net proceeds of approximately $450 million. We also received proceeds of $29.0 million from the exercise of preferred stock warrants immediately prior to the Business Combination. We are a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of New York, which provides secured borrowing capacity. Our borrowing capacity as of September 30, 2021, is $26.1 million , and there were no outstanding amounts under this agreement. As of September 30, 2021, we had $822.8 million of cash and restricted cash and $72.0 million of available- for-sale fixed income securities and short term investments. To date, we have funded operations primarily with issuances of convertible preferred stock, convertible promissory notes, and from net proceeds from the PIPE Investment, the Business Combination, and revenue. Our existing sources of liquidity include cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. Since our inception, we have incurred operating losses, including net losses attributable to Hippo of $141.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $310.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021. We had an accumulated deficit of $256.6 million as of December 31, 2020 and $567.3 million as of September 30, 2021. We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future due to continued investments that we intend to make in our business and, as a result, we may require additional capital resources to grow our business. We believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and net proceeds from the PIPE Investment and the Business Combination will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the foreseeable future. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in millions): Nine Months Ended September 30, 2021 2020 Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (127.1) $ (36.3) $ (90.8) Investing activities $ (22.9) $ 24.8 $ (47.7) Financing activities $ 480.4 $ 152.4 $ 328.0 Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities was $127.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021, an increase of $90.8 million, from $36.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. This increase was due primarily to a $221.2 million increase in our net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 and $27.0 million in changes in our operating assets and liabilities. These amounts were partially offset by an increase in non-cash charges of $157.4 million. Non-cash charges increased due primarily to the change in fair value of our preferred stock warrants liabilities of $117.4 million, an increase in the change in fair value on the derivative on our convertible promissory notes of $61.4 million, and an increase in the amortization of debt discount of $20.4 million, partially offset by a gain on the extinguishment of debt of $47.0 million. 50 Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $22.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021, due primarily to purchases of investments. Cash provided by in investing activities was $24.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, due primarily to maturities and sales of investments partially offset by cash paid for acquisition, net of cash acquired. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $480.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021, primarily driven by the Business Combination and PIPE Investment, which resulted in a cash inflow of $449.3 million and proceeds from the exercise of preferred stock warrants of $29.0 million. Cash provided by financing activities was $152.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, due primarily to the proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock, net of issuance costs. Commitments and Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those described in the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2020 included in the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-259040) filed with the SEC on August 24, 2021 , other than an increase in Unpaid Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense and lease obligation. We have extended a current lease and leased additional square footage in Texas for future payments of approximately $8.0 million extending through 2026. Unpaid Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense is $239.7 million as of September 30, 2021. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2021, the Company does not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our revenue, loss and loss adjustment expense reserve, recoverability of our net deferred tax asset, goodwill and intangible assets, business combinations, fair value of common stock, valuation of embedded derivatives, and redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with managements expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. Management believes there have been no significant changes for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-259040), filed with the SEC on August 24, 2021. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our interim consolidated financial statements for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of September 30, 2021. 51