ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we, our, Hippo and the Company refer to the business and operations of Hippo Holdings Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2024 and 2023 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2024 and 2023. Discussions of 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. Overview Hippo is an insurance holding company with subsidiaries that provide property and casualty insurance products to both individuals and business customers. We conduct our operations through three reportable segments: Services, Insurance-as-a-Service, and Hippo Home Insurance Program. We offer our services primarily in the United States. In the third quarter of 2023 we began taking several actions to lower the volatility of our Hippo Homeowners Insurance Program portfolio in light of the significant catastrophe losses we experienced in the second quarter, including raising rates on a portion of our renewal business, increasing deductibles for wind and hail perils, selectively non-renewing policies in certain regions, and instituting a nationwide pause on underwriting new premiums for our HO3 business as we examined our risk appetite. We also launched an expense reduction initiative across the Company, including a reduction in staff which we announced in October 2023. Further information on our business and reportable segments is presented in Part I, Item 1, Business and in Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Reinsurance We reinsure a portion of the risks we underwrite in order to reduce the volatility of our earnings, and to protect our capital management. As an MGA, we underwrite homeowners insurance policies on behalf of our insurance company subsidiaries (Spinnaker and Spinnaker Specialty Insurance Company (SSIC)) and other non-affiliated third-party insurance carriers. These carriers cede to reinsurers a portion of these risks and pay a premium based upon the risk and exposure of the policies subject to such reinsurance. The Company utilizes a variety of reinsurance structures to manage its exposure to large property losses, including non-proportional catastrophe excess of loss (XOL) and, to a lesser extent, proportional quota share reinsurance. Without reinsurance protection, the carriers would shoulder all the insurance risk themselves and would need incremental capital to satisfy regulators and rating agency requirements. Reinsurance allows a carrier to reduce its balance sheet exposure and volatility of earnings. Proportional Reinsurance Treaties Hippo Home Insurance Program For our Hippo primary homeowners reinsurance program for policies with effective dates in 2024, we elected not to purchase proportional reinsurance. Based on our growing confidence in the profitability and predictability of our underwriting results, we decided to retain more of the exposure and associated premium. For business produced through our builder channel for policies with effective dates in 2024, we purchased proportional reinsurance from one third-party reinsurer and expect to retain approximately 85% of the premium and associated risk, before purchasing catastrophe protection. All reinsurance obligations are appropriately collateralized. The reinsurance contracts are subject to contingent commission adjustments and a loss occurrence limit, which aligns our interests with that of the reinsurer. 57 Effective January 1, 2024, we also elected to cut off 25% of the reinsurers participation on the 2023 proportional reinsurance treaty and retain the remaining exposure and related premiums. In 2024, we continued to further protect our balance sheet through the purchase of non-proportional reinsurance described below in the section titled Non-Proportional Reinsurance. For our primary homeowners reinsurance program for policies with effective dates in 2023, we secured proportional reinsurance from a diverse panel of third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are either rated A- Excellent or better by AM Best, or the reinsurance is appropriately collateralized. In 2023, we retained approximately 40% of the premium through our insurance company subsidiaries or our captive reinsurance company, RHS, before purchasing catastrophe protection. Additionally, the reinsurance contracts are subject to contingent commission adjustments and loss participation features, which align our interests with those of our reinsurers. Loss participation features may increase the amount of losses retained by our insurance company subsidiaries in excess of our pro rata participation. For business produced through our builder channel for policies with effective dates in 2023, we purchased proportional reinsurance from three third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are rated A- Excellent or better by AM Best, or the reinsurance is appropriately collateralized. In 2023, we retained approximately 58% of the premium produced through our insurance company subsidiaries or RHS, before purchasing catastrophe protection. The reinsurance contract is subject to contingent commission adjustments and limited loss participation features, which align our interests with those of the reinsurers. For our primary homeowners reinsurance program for policies with effective dates in 2022, we secured proportional reinsurance from a diverse panel of third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are either rated A- Excellentor better by AM Best, or the reinsurance is collateralized. In 2022, we retained approximately 10% of the premium through our insurance company subsidiaries, including our captive reinsurance company, RHS. Additionally, the reinsurance contracts are subject to variable commission adjustments and loss participation features, including loss ratio caps and loss corridors, which align our interests with those of our reinsurers. Similar to the prior year, we saw increased use of loss participation features in the 2022 reinsurance agreements, which increased the amount of losses retained by our insurance company subsidiaries in excess of our pro rata participation in both the 2022 and 2023 fiscal periods. Non-Proportional Reinsurance Hippo Home Insurance Program We also purchased XOL reinsurance which includes traditional reinsurance protection, state subsidized reinsurance protection, catastrophe bonds, and industry loss warranty products. Through our insurance company subsidiaries, we are exposed to the risk of natural catastrophe events that could occur on the risks arising from policies underwritten by us or other MGAs. We are also exposed to this risk through our captive reinsurer, which takes on a share of the risk underwritten by our MGA business. In May 2023, we secured new catastrophe protection through a per occurrence XOL reinsurance agreement with Mountain Re Ltd. (Mountain Re), an independent Bermuda company, licensed as a Special Purpose Insurer.The reinsurance agreement meets the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with the guidance for reinsurance contracts. In connection with the reinsurance agreement, Mountain Re issued notes (generally referred to as catastrophe bonds) to investors, consistent with the amount of coverage provided under the reinsurance agreement. The reinsurance agreement provides us with coverage through June 2026, and pursuant to the agreement, Mountain Re provides XOL reinsurance coverage to us for losses from a variety of perils, including named storms, fire following an earthquake, severe thunderstorms, and winter storms on business produced through the Hippo MGA. Under the terms of the reinsurance agreement, we are obligated to pay annual reinsurance premiums to Mountain Re for the reinsurance coverage which inures to the benefit of our traditional XOL program described below. Amounts payable under the reinsurance agreement with respect to any covered event cannot exceed our actual losses from such event. Our XOL program provides us protection from catastrophes that could impact a large number of insurance policies. We buy XOL so that the probability of losses from a single occurrence exceeding the protection purchased is no more than 0.4%, or equivalent to a 1 in 250-year return period when considered with the Mountain Re per occurrence, described above, corporate catastrophe, and Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (the FHCF) XOL 58 described below under Other Reinsurance. This reinsurance protects us from all but the most severe catastrophic events. Other Reinsurance Spinnaker also purchased reinsurance for programs written by MGAs other than Hippo through our Insurance-as-a-Service business. The reinsurance treaties are a mix of proportional and XOL in which generally 75% to 100% of the risk, up to at least the 1 in 250-year return period, is ceded. The reinsurance contracts are subject to variable commission adjustments and loss participation features, including loss caps, which may increase the amount of losses retained by us in excess of our pro-rata participation. Such provisions are recognized in the period based on the experience to date under the agreement. Spinnaker purchased a corporate catastrophe XOL program that attaches above the individual programmatic reinsurance programs protecting the property business written by Hippo as well as the other MGAs. This treaty has a floating retention and attaches at the exhaustion point of the underlying programs specific reinsurance. The catastrophe bond, and the FHCF, described above, inure to the benefit of this contract. This program provides us protection from catastrophes that could impact a large number of correlated insurance policies underwritten by us and our other MGAs. We buy this XOL so that the probability of losses from a single occurrence across the property portfolio exceeding the protection purchased is no more than 0.4%, or equivalent to a 1 in 250 year-return period. This reinsurance protects us from all but the most severe catastrophic events. We purchased reinsurance from the State Board of Administration in Florida via the FHCF annually for admitted residential hurricane losses in the State of Florida. This coverage is provided by the State of Florida and protects business written by Hippo as well as other MGAs that produce admitted residential policies. We currently purchase reimbursement protection at the maximum level (90%) of mandatory coverage offered by the FHCF. Fiscal Year 2025 Reinsurance Programs Proportional Reinsurance Hippo Home Insurance Program For our Hippo primary homeowners reinsurance program commencing in 2025, we elected not to purchase proportional reinsurance. Based on our growing confidence in the profitability and predictability of our underwriting results, we decided to retain more of the exposure and associated premium. For business produced through our builder channel in 2025, we purchased proportional reinsurance from one third-party reinsurer and expect to retain approximately 85% of the premium and associated risk, before purchasing catastrophe protection. All reinsurance obligations are appropriately collateralized. The reinsurance contracts are subject to contingent commission adjustments and a loss occurrence limit, which aligns our interests with that of the reinsurer. We also seek to further protect our balance sheet through the purchase of non-proportional reinsurance described below in the section titled Non-Proportional Reinsurance. Non-Proportional Reinsurance Hippo Home Insurance Program We also purchase non-proportional XOL reinsurance. Through our ownership of our insurance company subsidiaries, we are exposed to the risk of natural catastrophe events that could occur on the risks we are assuming from policies underwritten by us or other MGAs. We are also exposed to this risk through our captive reinsurer, which takes on a share of the risk underwritten by our MGA business. Our XOL program provides protection to us from catastrophes that could impact a large number of insurance policies. We buy XOL so that the probability of losses from a single occurrence exceeding the protection purchased is no more than 0.4%, or equivalent to a 1:250 year return period. This reinsurance protects us from all but the most severe catastrophic events. 59 Key Factors and Trends Affecting our Operating Results Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and will continue to be, affected by a number of factors, including the following: Our Ability to Attract New Customers Our long-term growth will depend, in large part, on our continued ability to attract new customers to our platform. For Hippo home insurance policies, we seek to minimize the volatility of our portfolio and are currently in the process of analyzing overall underwriting results for the segment, taking actions as needed. Our short-term focus is on attracting new customers to our licensed insurance agency to purchase non-Hippo policies, although over time we expect to strategically return to Hippo underwritten policies as our underwriting actions take hold. We intend to continue to drive new customer growth by highlighting our consumer-focused approach to home protection and insurance across multiple distribution channels, regardless of whether the customer is a Hippo policyholder. In particular, we seek to grow by: Promoting our agency for sales of non-Hippo policies, growing our network of partners within existing partner channels, and geographically optimizing our Hippo policyholder base; Developing new strategic partnerships with key players involved in the real estate transaction ecosystem; and Deepening our relationships with our customers by connecting them to partners offering value-added services that are not specifically insurance products, such as home maintenance, home monitoring, and energy consumption optimization. Our ability to attract new customers depends on the pricing of our products, the offerings of our competitors, our geographic reach, and the extent and effectiveness of our marketing efforts. Our ability to attract customers also depends on maintaining and strengthening our brand by providing superior customer experiences across all of our offerings through our proactive, tech-enabled strategy. We face competition from traditional insurers who have more diverse product offerings and longer established operating histories, as well as from new, technology-driven entrants who may pursue more horizontal growth strategies. These competitors may mimic certain aspects of our digital platform and offerings and have more types of insurance products, allowing them to offer customers the ability to bundle multiple coverage types together, which may be attractive to many customers. Our Ability to Retain Customers Our ability to derive significant lifetime value from our customer relationships depends, in part, on our ability to retain our customers over time. Strong retention allows us to build a recurring revenue base, generating additional premium term over term without material incremental marketing costs. Our customers typically become more valuable to us over time because retention rates have historically increased with the age of customer cohorts and because non-catastrophic loss frequency declines as cohorts mature. As we expect to broadly retain our customers who are not located in high severe weather exposed regions, over the long-term, we expect our book of business to evolve to be weighted more towards renewals versus new business, as is the case with our more mature competitors. We expect that this would enable us to benefit from the higher premium retention rates and inherently lower frequency of losses that characterize renewed premiums. Our ability to retain customers will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our products, the offerings of our competitors, and our ability to continue delivering exceptional customer service and support. Our Ability to Manage Regulatory Impact, Including on Our Efforts to Manage Our Exposure to Volatility We are subject to extensive laws, regulations, administrative directives, and regulatory actions. From time to time, regulatory authorities or legislative bodies seek to influence and restrict premium rates, require premium refunds to policyholders, require reinstatement of terminated policies, restrict the ability of insurers to cancel or non-renew policies, require insurers to continue to write new policies or limit their ability to write new policies, limit insurers ability to change coverage terms and deductibles or to impose underwriting standards, impose additional 60 regulations regarding agency and broker compensation, impose fines and penalties for unintended errors or mistakes, impose additional regulations regarding cybersecurity and privacy, and otherwise expand overall regulation of insurance products and the insurance industry. These laws may limit or restrict our ability to reduce our exposures, including to weather-related losses. Our Ability to Expand Fee Income and Premium Through Cross-Sales to Existing Customers One of our strategies to increase the value we are providing to our customers is to offer incremental services to assist our customers in better maintaining and protecting their homes. As we roll out these services, we expect to be able to generate incremental, non-risk-based service and fee income from our existing customers. We expect these home protection services not only to generate incremental revenue, but also to reduce losses for our customers, andby implicationour loss ratios. Our success in expanding revenue and reducing losses by offering these services depends on our ability to market these services, our operational ability to deliver value to our customers, and the ability of these services to reduce the probability of loss for an average homeowner. We are also in the early stages of cross-selling non-homeowner insurance products across our customer base. Cross-sales allow us to generate additional premium per customer, and ultimately higher revenue and fee income, without material incremental marketing spend. Our success in expanding revenue through cross-sales depends on our marketing efforts with new products, offerings of our competitors, additional expansion into new states, and the pricing of our bundled products. Our Ability to Manage Risk We leverage data, technology, and geographic diversity to help manage risk. For instance, we obtain dynamic data from various sources and use advanced statistical methods to model that data into our pricing algorithm. Incorporating these external data sources and utilizing the experience gained with our own customer base should lead to better underwriting, reduced loss frequency, andadjusting for weather related eventslower loss ratios over time. While our current reinsurance framework helps us manage the volatility of earnings, reducing our overall gross loss ratio is critical to our success. Our ability to incorporate new data sources as they become available and to use them to improve our ability to accurately and competitively price risk is central to our growth strategy. Seasonality of Claims Losses Seasonal patterns can impact our incurrence of claims losses,as seasonal weather patterns impact the level and amount of claims we receive. These patterns include hurricanes, wildfires, and coastal storms in the fall, cold weather patterns and changing home heating needs in the winter, and tornados and hailstorms in the spring and summer. The mix of geographic exposure and products within our customer base impacts our exposure to these weather patterns, and as we diversify our base of premium such that our exposure more closely resembles the industry exposure, we should see the impact of these events on our business more closely resemble the impact on the broader industry. Basis of Presentation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP (GAAP) as determined by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), and pursuant to the regulations of the SEC. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Gross Written Premium Gross written premium is the amount received or to be received for insurance policies written or assumed by us and our affiliates as a carrier or captive reinsurer, without reduction for policy acquisition costs, reinsurance costs, or other deductions. The volume of our gross written premium in any given period is generally influenced by: New business submissions; Binding of new business submissions into policies; 61 Bound policies going effective; Renewals of existing policies; and Average size and premium rate of bound policies. Ceded Written Premium Ceded written premium is the amount of gross written premium written or assumed by us and our affiliates as a carrier that we cede to reinsurers. We enter into reinsurance contracts to limit our exposure to losses, as well as to provide additional capacity for growth. Ceded written premium is treated as a reduction from gross written premium. The volume of our ceded written premium is impacted by the level of our gross written premium and decisions we make to increase or decrease retention levels. Net Earned Premium Net earned premium represents the earned portion of our gross written premium for insurance policies written or assumed by us and less the earned portion of ceded written premium (any portion of our gross written premium that is ceded to third-party reinsurers under our reinsurance agreements). We earn written premiums on a pro-rata basis over the term of the policies. Commission Income, Net Includes: a.Agency Commission: The Company also operates licensed insurance agencies that are engaged solely in the sale of policies, including non-Hippo policies. For these policies, the Company earns a recurring agency commission from the carriers whose policies the Company sells, which is recorded in the commission income, net line in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Similar to the MGA businesses, the performance obligation from the agency contracts is placement of the insurance policies. For both MGA and insurance agency activities, the Company recognizes commission received from insurers for the sale of insurance contracts as revenue at a point in time on the policy effective dates. b.Ceding Commission: The Company receives commission based on the premium it cedes to third-party reinsurers for the reimbursement for the Companys acquisition and underwriting services. Excess ceding commission over the cost of acquisition is included in the commission income, net line on the Companys consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. For the policies that the Company writes on its own carrier as MGA, the Company recognizes this commission as ceding commission on the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The Company earns commission on ceded reinsurance premium in a manner consistent with the recognition of the earned premium on the underlying insurance policies, on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies reinsured. The Company records the portion of ceding commission income which represents reimbursement of successful direct acquisition costs related to the underlying policies as an offset to the applicable direct acquisition costs. Through the Companys Insurance-as-a-Service business the Company earns fronting fees from the MGA programs it supports. The Company earns fronting fees in a manner consistent with the recognition of the earned premium on the underlying insurance policies, on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. This revenue is included in the commission income, net line on its statements of operations and comprehensive loss. c.Claim Processing Fees: As an MGA the Company receives a fee that is calculated as a percent of the premium, from the insurers in exchange for providing claims adjudication services. The claims adjudication services are provided over the term of the policy and recognized ratably over the same period. This revenue is included in the commission income, net line on the Companys consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. d.Managing General Agent (MGA) Commission: The Company operates as an MGA for multiple insurers. The Company designs and underwrites insurance products on behalf of the insurers culminating in the sale of insurance policies. The Company earns recurring commission and policy fees associated with the policies they sell. The Company has underwriting authority and responsibility for administering claims, (see Claim Processing Fees below) and works with affiliated and unaffiliated carrier platforms who pay the Company a commission in exchange for the opportunity to take that risk on their balance sheets. The 62 Companys performance obligation associated with these contracts is the placement of the policy, which is met on the effective date. Upon issuance of a new policy, the Company charges policy fees and inspection fees (see Service and Fee Income below), retains its share of commission, and remits the balance to the respective insurers. Subsequent commission adjustments arising from policy changes such as endorsements are recognized in the period when the adjustments occur. Cash received in advance of policy effective dates is recorded on the consolidated balance sheets, representing the Companys portion of commission and premium due to insurers and reinsurers, and hold this cash in trust for the benefit of the insurers and reinsurers as fiduciary liabilities. The MGA commission is subject to adjustments, higher or lower (commonly referred to as commission slide), depending on the underwriting performance of the policies placed by us. The Company is required to return a portion of its MGA commission due to commission slide on the policies placed as an MGA if the underwriting performance varies due to higher Hippo programs loss ratio from provisional performance of the Hippo programs loss ratio. The Company also returns a portion of its MGA commission if the policies are cancelled before the term of the policy. Accordingly, the Company reserves for commission slide using estimated Hippo programs loss ratio performance, or a cancellation reserve as a reduction of revenue for each period presented in its statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Service and Fee Income Service and fee income mainly represents policy fees and other revenue. We directly bill policyholders for policy fees and collect and retain fees per the terms of the contracts between us and our insurers. Similar to the commission revenue, we estimate a cancellation reserve for policy fees using historical information. The performance obligation associated with these fees is satisfied at a point in time upon completion of the underwriting process, which is the policy effective date. Accordingly, we recognize all fees as revenue on the policy effective date. Net Investment Income Net investment income represents interest earned from fixed maturity securities, short-term investments and other investments, and the gains or losses from the sale of investments. Our cash and invested assets primarily consist of fixed-maturity securities, and may also include cash and cash equivalents, equity securities, and short-term investments. The principal factors that influence net investment income are the size of our investment portfolio and the yield on that portfolio. As measured by amortized cost (which excludes changes in fair value, such as changes in interest rates), the size of our investment portfolio is mainly a function of our invested equity capital along with premium we receive from our customers less payments on customer claims. Net investment income also includes an insignificant amount of net realized gains (losses) on investments, which are a function of the difference between the amount received by us on the sale of a security and the securitys amortized cost, as well as any allowances for credit losses recognized in earnings, if any. Expenses Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses Loss and loss adjustment expenses represent the costs incurred for losses net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. We enter into reinsurance contracts to limit our exposure to potential losses as well as to provide additional capacity for growth. The expenses are a function of the size and term of the insurance policies and the loss experience and loss participation features associated with the underlying risks. Loss and LAE are based on actuarial assumptions and management judgements, including losses incurred during the period and changes in estimates from prior periods. Loss and LAE also include employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) of our claims processing teams, as well as allocated occupancy costs and related overhead based on headcount. Insurance-Related Expenses Insurance related expenses primarily consist of amortization of direct acquisition commission costs and premium taxes incurred on the successful acquisition of business written on a direct basis and credit card processing fees not charged to our customers. Insurance related expenses also include employee compensation (including stock- 63 based compensation and benefits) of our underwriting teams, amortization of capitalized internal use software, as well as allocated occupancy costs and related overhead based on headcount. Insurance related expenses are offset by a portion of ceding commission income, which represents reimbursement of successful acquisition costs related to the underlying policies. Additionally, insurance related expenses include the costs of providing bound policies and delivering claims services to our customers. These costs include underwriting technology service costs including software, data services used for performing underwriting, and third-party call center costs in addition to personnel-related costs. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for our technology staff, which includes technology development, infrastructure support, actuarial, and third-party services. Technology and development also include allocated facility costs and related overhead based on headcount. We expense development costs as incurred, except for costs related to internal use software development projects, which are capitalized and subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the developed software. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of sales commission, advertising costs, and marketing expenditures, as well as employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for employees engaged in sales, marketing, data analytics, and customer acquisition. Sales and marketing expenses also include allocated facility costs and related overhead based on headcount. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for our finance, human resources, legal, and general management functions, as well as facilities, insurance, and professional services. Impairment and Restructuring Charges Impairment and restructuring charges consist of non-cash impairment charges relating to goodwill. We review goodwill for impairment annually on October 1 and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the fair value of the reporting units goodwill is calculated and an impairment loss equal to the excess is recorded. It also consists of severance and other personnel costs associated with exit and disposal activities as well as reductions in workforce. Other (Income) Expense Other (income) expense primarily consists of certain fair value adjustments and other non-operating income expenses. Gain on Sale of a Business Gain on sale of a business consists of our gain on the sale of our subsidiaries, Mainsail and First Connect. Income Taxes We record income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we record deferred income tax assets and liabilities based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between the financial statement and income tax basis of existing assets and liabilities. We measure these differences using the enacted statutory tax rates that are expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which differences are expected to reverse. We recognize the effect on deferred income taxes of a change in tax rates in income in the period that includes the enactment date. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets and liabilities to the net amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations, and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. 64 Key Operating and Financial Metrics and Non-GAAP Measures We regularly review the following key operating and financial metrics in order to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends in our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. The non-GAAP financial measures below have not been calculated in accordance with GAAP and should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an indicator of our operating performance, liquidity, or cash flows generated by operating, investing, and financing activities, as there may be significant factors or trends that it fails to address. We caution investors that non-GAAP financial informationby its naturedeparts from traditional accounting conventions. Therefore, its use can make it difficult to compare our current results with our results from other reporting periods and with the results of other companies. Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures, in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as an integral part of managing our business and to, among other things: (i) monitor and evaluate the performance of our business operations and financial performance; (ii) facilitate internal comparisons of the historical operating performance of our business operations; (iii) review and assess the operating performance of our management team; (iv) analyze and evaluate financial and strategic planning decisions regarding future operating investments; and (v) plan for and prepare future annual operating budgets and determine appropriate levels of operating investments. Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Total Generated Premium $ 1,336.1 $ 1,134.3 Total Revenue 372.1 209.7 Net Loss attributable to Hippo (40.5) (273.1) Adjusted EBITDA (43.5) (200.6) Gross Loss Ratio 53 % 71 % Net Loss Ratio 77 % 169 % Total Generated Premium We define Total Generated Premium as the aggregate written premium placed across all of our business platforms for the period presented. We measure Total Generated Premium as it reflects the volume of our business irrespective of choices related to how we structure our reinsurance treaties, the amount of risk we retain on our own balance sheet, or the amount of business written in our capacity as an MGA, agency, or as an insurance carrier/reinsurer. We calculate Total Generated Premium as the sum of: i)Gross written premium (GWP)a GAAP measure defined above; and ii)Gross placed premiumpremium of policies placed with third-party insurance companies, for which we do not retain insurance risk and for which we earn a commission payment, and policy fees charged by us to the policyholders on the effective date of the policy. Our Total Generated Premium for the year ended December 31, 2024 grew 18% year-over-year to $1,336.1 million from $1,134.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The growth was driven primarily by the growth in the total book of business in our aggregator channel, as well as in our builder channel for new and renewal business. The growth was also due to the growth of non-Hippo written premium supported by our Insurance-as-a-Service business. This was partially offset by a decrease in our HHIP as we have taken actions to reduce our exposure to wind and hail while achieving planned premium rate increases. The following table presents Total Generated Premium for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 (in millions): 65 Change 2024 2023 2024 vs. 2023 Gross Written Premium $ 892.4 $ 847.3 $ 45.1 Gross Placed Premium 443.7 287.0 156.7 Total Generated Premium $ 1,336.1 $ 1,134.3 $ 201.8 Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (adjusted EBITDA), a Non-GAAP financial measure, as net loss attributable to Hippo excluding interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, net investment income, restructuring charges, impairment expense, other non-cash fair market value adjustments, contingent consideration for one of our acquisitions, and other transactions, which may include certain legal fees and settlement costs, that we consider to be unique in nature. For the year ended December 31, 2024, adjusted EBITDA loss was $43.5 million, a decrease of $157.1 million compared to a loss of $200.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, the decrease was due primarily to a growth in revenue reflecting an increase in premiums earned mainly due to higher premium retention as a result of the 2023 and 2024 reinsurance treaties compared to prior periods, partially offset by an increase in loss and loss adjustment expenses and insurance-related expenses. The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss attributable to Hippo to adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in millions): Years Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 2024 vs. 2023 Net loss attributable to Hippo $ (40.5) $ (273.1) $ 232.6 Adjustments: Net investment income (24.4) (23.1) (1.3) Depreciation and amortization 23.2 19.8 3.4 Stock-based compensation 38.2 57.5 (19.3) Fair value adjustments 1.7 4.5 (2.8) Other one-off transactions 7.9 7.8 0.1 Income taxes expense 1.2 0.5 0.7 Gain on sale of business (54.4) (54.4) Impairment and restructuring charges 3.6 5.5 (1.9) Adjusted EBITDA $ (43.5) $ (200.6) $ 157.1 Gross Loss Ratio Gross Loss Ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the Gross Losses and LAE to the Gross Earned Premium (in millions). Years Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 2024 vs. 2023 Gross Losses and LAE $ 450.3 $ 543.5 $ (93.2) Gross Earned Premium 853.7 769.3 84.4 Gross Loss Ratio 53 % 71 % (18) % 66 The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross Loss Ratio by named event PCS and non-PCS events. Years Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 2024 vs. 2023 PCS losses 9 % 20 % (11) % Non-PCS losses 44 % 51 % (7) % Gross loss ratio 53 % 71 % (18) % For the year ended December 31, 2024, our Gross Loss Ratio was 53%net of a prior year favorable development of 2 percentage points relating to non-PCS events and 2 percentage points relating to PCS events, compared with 71% net of a prior year favorable development of 1 percentage point relating to non-PCS events and 2 percentage points relating to PCS events for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease reflected the benefits of the pricing and underwriting actions we have taken and due to a lower impact from PCS events. We expect continued improvement as these actions have more time to impact our financial results. Net Loss Ratio Net loss ratio expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the net losses and LAE, to the net earned premium (in millions). Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net Losses and LAE $ 209.0 $ 181.7 Net Earned Premium 272.5 107.5 Net Loss Ratio 77 % 169 % For the year ended December 31, 2024, our Net Loss Ratio was 77% net of a prior year favorable development of 1 percentage point relating to PCS events and 1 percentage point relating to non-PCS events, compared with 169% net of a prior year favorable development of 2 percentage points relating to PCS events for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease reflected the benefits of the pricing and underwriting actions we have taken, including a reduction of loss participation features in our reinsurance treaties, higher retention of earned premium due to our 2023 and 2024 reinsurance treaties, and a lower impact from PCS and non-PCS events.We expect continued improvement as these actions have more time to impact our financial results.. Segment Information Years Ended December 31, 2024 ($ in millions) Services Insurance-as-a-Service Hippo Home Insurance Program Intersegment Eliminations(1) Total Total Generated Premium $ 596.7 $ 617.6 $ 282.9 $ (161.1) $ 1,336.1 Total Revenue 48.2 99.5 236.4 (12.0) 372.1 Adjusted operating income (loss) (16.9) 24.4 (51.5) 0.5 (43.5) 67 Year Ended December 31, 2023 ($ in millions) Services Insurance-as-a-Service Hippo Home Insurance Program Intersegment Eliminations(1) Total Total Generated Premium $ 459.7 $ 513.9 $ 360.5 $ (199.8) $ 1,134.3 Total Revenue 44.3 70.7 102.1 (7.4) 209.7 Adjusted operating income (loss) (37.6) 18.3 (180.3) (1.0) (200.6) Year Ended December 31, 2022 ($ in millions) Services Insurance-as-a-Service Hippo Home Insurance Program Intersegment Eliminations(1) Total Total Generated Premium $ 358.0 $ 278.6 $ 366.3 $ (191.8) $ 811.1 Total Revenue 36.9 37.0 63.9 (18.1) 119.7 Adjusted operating income (loss) (49.0) 5.4 (162.8) (206.4) (1)Intersegment eliminations include commissions paid from Hippo Home Insurance Program for policies sold by the Companys Services segment (revenue, cost, and other adjustments in respective business units eliminated as part of consolidation). Intersegment eliminations also include premiums written between the segments. Segment adjusted operating income (loss) is our primary segment profitability measure, and is calculated as segment revenue less operating expenses that are directly attributable to the segments. Refer to Note 22 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information on segments and a reconciliation of Segment adjusted operating income (loss) to net loss attributable to Hippo. Services For the year ended December 31, 2024, our Services segment had Total Generated Premium of $596.7 million, an increase of 30% from $459.7 million over the prior year period, while revenue was $48.2 million, an increase of 9% from $44.3 million over the prior year period. The growth was driven primarily due to the growth in the total book of business in our aggregator channel, as well as in our builder channel for new and renewal business, as we experienced premium rate increases. Our adjusted operating loss was $16.9 million, a decrease of 55% compared to a loss of $37.6 million in the prior year period due primarily to a decrease in sales and marketing costs, as well as the increase in revenue as noted above. Insurance-as-a-Service Our Insurance-as-a-Service segment, which through our carrier, Spinnaker, leverages our capital and insurance licenses to provide capacity to third party MGAs, creating diversified income through fees, underwriting profits, and investment income. For the year ended December 31, 2024, our Insurance-as-a-Service segments Total Generated Premium was $617.6 million, an increase of 20% from $513.9 million over the prior year period, while revenue was $99.5 million, an increase of 41% from $70.7 million over the prior year period. The growth was driven primarily by the performance of existing programs and higher retention. We purchased XOL to cover events in excess of per occurrence limits based on the expected growth in exposure during the year which results in an increase in ceded earned premium and lower net earned premium. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, $33.7 million and $22.8 million, respectively, was offset against earned premium for XOL. Adjusted operating income was $24.4 million, an increase of 33% compared to $18.3 million in the prior year period due primarily to the increase in revenue mentioned above, partially offset by increases in loss and loss adjustment expenses and insurance related expenses due to the growth of the book of business. 68 Hippo Home Insurance Program For the year ended December 31, 2024, our Hippo Homeowners Insurance Program had Total Generated Premium of $282.9 million, a decrease of 22% from $360.5 million over the prior year period, while revenue was $236.4 million, an increase of 132% from $102.1 million over the prior year period. The increase in revenue was due primarily to higher net earned premium, partially offset by a decrease in commission income, net, due to higher retention on our 2023 and 2024 reinsurance treaties, and achieving planned premium rate increases. We purchased XOL to cover events in excess of per occurrence limits based on the expected growth in exposure during the year which results in an increase in ceded earned premium and lower net earned premium. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, $26.5 million and $31.1 million, respectively, was offset against earned premium for XOL. Adjusted operating loss was $51.5 million, a decrease of 71% compared to a loss of $180.3 million in the prior year period. The decrease in adjusted operating loss was due primarily to improvement in our net loss ratio due to improved terms on our reinsurance treaties and a lower impact of PCS events. This was partially offset by an increase in insurance related expenses due to higher premium retention. Hippo Home Insurance Program Gross Loss Ratio Hippo Home Insurance Program Gross Loss Ratio (HPGLR) is a key performance indicator that represents our underwriting operational performance for the entire Total Generated Premium underwritten by Hippo as part of the Hippo Home Insurance Program. This ratio includes losses and premiums written and placed on Spinnaker (our carrier) as well as other carriers for Hippo policies (policies underwritten by the Hippo MGA). For the periods presented, changes in this ratio also impact our ceding commission revenue and loss participation features in our reinsurance treaties, which is included in loss and loss adjustment expense on our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. This ratio is also used by our reinsurers and other carriers to make business decisions relating to the capacity of reinsurance and amount of ceding commission that would be available to Hippo. The lower the ratio, the better the economics for Hippo. Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Non-PCS 54 % 62 % PCS 19 % 39 % HPGLR 73 % 101 % For the year ended December 31, 2024, HPGLR was 73% net of a prior year favorable development of 2 percentage points relating to non-PCS events and 4 percentage points relating to PCS events, compared to 101% net of a prior year favorable development of 2 percentage points relating to PCS events for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease reflected the benefits of the pricing and underwriting actions we have taken and a lower impact from PCS events. We expect continued improvement as these actions have more time to impact our financial results. 69 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations data for the periods indicated (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, Change % Change 2024 2023 2024 vs. 2023 2024 vs. 2023 Revenue: Net earned premium $ 272.5 $ 107.5 $ 165.0 153 % Commission income, net 63.6 63.4 0.2 % Service and fee income 11.6 15.7 (4.1) (26) % Net investment income 24.4 23.1 1.3 6 % Total revenue 372.1 209.7 162.4 77 % Expenses: Losses and loss adjustment expenses 209.0 181.7 27.3 15 % Insurance related expenses 88.8 79.1 9.7 12 % Technology and development 30.7 47.0 (16.3) (35) % Sales and marketing 51.2 80.1 (28.9) (36) % General and administrative 70.7 79.6 (8.9) (11) % Impairment and restructuring 3.6 5.5 (1.9) (35) % Gain on sale of business (54.4) (54.4) % Other income, net (0.1) (0.8) 0.7 (88) % Total expenses 399.5 472.2 (72.7) (15) % Loss before income taxes (27.4) (262.5) 235.1 (90) % Income taxes expense 1.2 0.5 0.7 140 % Net loss (28.6) (263.0) 234.4 (89) % Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of tax 11.9 10.1 1.8 18 % Net loss attributable to Hippo $ (40.5) $ (273.1) $ 232.6 (85) % Other comprehensive income (loss): Change in net unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities, net of tax 0.2 4.1 (3.9) (95) % Comprehensive loss attributable to Hippo $ (40.3) $ (269.0) $ 228.7 (85) % 70 Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 Net Revenue The following table set forth net revenue by segment for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2024 2023 2024 vs. 2023 Services $ 48.2 $ 44.3 $ 3.9 9 % Insurance-as-a-Service 99.5 70.7 28.8 41 % Hippo Home Insurance Program 236.4 102.1 134.3 132 % Intersegment elimination $ (12.0) $ (7.4) (4.6) 62 % Total net revenue $ 372.1 $ 209.7 $ 162.4 77 % Net Earned Premium For the year ended December 31, 2024, net earned premium was $272.5 million, an increase of $165.0 million compared to $107.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was due primarily to increases in gross earned premium due to higher retention of earned premium, and year-over-year growth of our Insurance-as-a-Service and HHIP segments, partially offset by an increased cost of XOL premiums for our catastrophic coverage which results in an increase in ceded earned premium and lower net earned premium. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, $60.2 million and $53.9 million, respectively, was offset against earned premium for XOL. Commission Income, Net For the year ended December 31, 2024, commission income was $63.6 million, an increase of $0.2 million, compared to $63.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was due primarily to an increase in agency commissions of $8.6 million from our Services segment and carrier fronting fees of $4.3 million from our Insurance-as-a-Service segment, both of which grew due to the year-over-year growth of our total book of business. This was offset by a decrease in ceding commission due to an increase in our premium retention, compared to the prior year. Service and Fee Income For the year ended December 31, 2024, service and fee income was $11.6 million, a decrease of $4.1 million, or 26%, compared to $15.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in non-inspection policy fees from our HHIP segment. Net Investment Income For the year ended December 31, 2024, net investment income was $24.4 million, an increase of $1.3 million, or 6%, compared to $23.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was due primarily to an increase in yields and diversification. We are mainly invested in money market accounts, securities issued by the U.S. government and agencies, high-grade corporate securities, residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities, and other governmental related securities. Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2024, loss and loss adjustment expenses were $209.0 million, an increase of $27.3 million, or 15%, compared to $181.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was due primarily to an increase in our total book of business and higher premium retention rates, as well as an increase in PCS catastrophic weather and other weather loss experience. This was partially offset by an improvement in our net loss ratio due to improved terms on our reinsurance treaties, and pricing and underwriting actions we have taken. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we recorded a net reserve release of $6.1 million related to prior accident years, compared with $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. 71 Insurance-Related Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2024, insurance-related expenses were $88.8 million, an increase of $9.7 million, or 12%, compared to $79.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was due primarily to an increase in acquisition expenses, net of $12.9 million due to the growth of our business, partially offset by a decrease of $5.6 million in other insurance-related expenses. Technology and Development Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2024, technology and development expenses were $30.7 million, a decrease of $16.3 million, or 35%, compared to $47.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in employee-related costs of $13.1 million, including a decrease in stock-based compensation of $6.5 million, driven by a decrease in headcount. Sales and Marketing Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2024, sales and marketing expenses were $51.2 million, a decrease of $28.9 million, or 36%, compared to $80.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in employee-related expenses of $10.5 million, including a decrease in stock-based compensation of $5.2 million due to a decrease in headcount, a decrease in advertising costs of $7.0 million, a decrease due to the change in fair value of contingent consideration of $4.1 million, and a decrease in commission expense of $2.4 million. General and Administrative Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2024, general and administrative expenses were $70.7 million, a decrease of $8.9 million, or 11%, compared to $79.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in stock-based compensation of $8.0 million, partially driven by a charge due to the repricing of options during the first quarter of 2023, and facilities costs of $3.3 million, partially offset by an increase in legal costs of $2.8 million. Impairment and Restructuring Charges For the year ended December 31, 2024, impairment and restructuring charges were $3.6 million, a decrease of $1.9 million, or 35%, compared to $5.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The charges for the year ended December 31, 2024 consisted of $3.6 million which primarily related to the impairment of a lease right-of-use asset due to abandonment of leased office space. The charges for the year ended December 31, 2023 consisted of $2.6 million of severance and other personnel costs associated with the reduction in workforce and $2.9 million related to the impairment of a lease right-of-use asset due to abandonment of leased office space. Gain on Sale of Business For the year ended December 31, 2024 we recognized a gain on sale of $8.2 million related to our subsidiary, Mainsail, and a gain on sale of $46.1 million related to our sale of First Connect. There was no gain on sale of business for the year ended December 31, 2023. Other Income, net For the year ended December 31, 2024, other income was $0.1 million, a decrease of $0.7 million compared to $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease in other income was due primarily to changes in the fair market value on the delisted public and private placement warrants of $1.3 million, partially offset by a decrease in our share of losses from equity method investees of $0.7 million. Income Taxes For the year ended December 31, 2024, income tax expense was $1.2 million, an increase of $0.7 million, compared to $0.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was due primarily to an increase in current tax expense related to state income taxes and recognizing a deferred tax benefit related to foreign income taxes in the prior year. 72 Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our existing sources of liquidity include cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. As of December 31, 2024, we had $232.8 million of cash and restricted cash and $373.3 million of available-for-sale fixed income securities and short-term investments. In addition, we are a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of New York, which provides secured borrowing capacity. Our borrowing capacity as of December 31, 2024, is $17.4 million, and there were no outstanding amounts under this agreement. To date, we have funded operations primarily with issuances of convertible preferred stock, convertible promissory notes, and from net proceeds from a private placement transaction in connection with the Business Combination, the Business Combination, and revenue. Until we can generate sufficient revenue and other income to cover operating expenses, working capital and capital expenditures, we expect the funds raised as discussed above to fund our cash needs. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including the volume of issuances of insurance policies, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, investments in information technology systems, and the expansion of sales and marketing activities. In the future, we may raise additional funds through the issuance of debt or equity securities or through borrowing. We cannot assure that such funds will be available on favorable terms, or at all. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in millions): Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 2024 vs. 2023 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 47.5 $ (92.4) $ 139.9 Investing activities $ 30.3 $ 57.6 $ (27.3) Financing activities $ (40.1) $ (14.6) $ (25.5) Operating Activities Cash provided in operating activities was $47.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, an increase of $139.9 million from cash used in operating activities of $92.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was due primarily to an increase in revenues as well as working capital changes that benefited cash due to higher premium retention and improved terms on our reinsurance treaties. Cash used in operating activities represents payments for our operations including, payroll, loss and loss adjusted expenses and marketing activities. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $30.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, due primarily to the maturities of investment securities and proceeds from the sale of business, partially offset by purchases of investment securities. Cash provided by investing activities was $57.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, due primarily to proceeds from the maturities and sales of investments, partially offset by purchases of investments and the purchase of an office building. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $40.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily driven by cash paid for share repurchase, distributions to noncontrolling interests and change in fiduciary liabilities, and taxes paid related to net share settlement of RSUs, partially offset by proceeds from common stock issuances. 73 Cash used in financing activities was $14.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, due primarily to distributions to noncontrolling interests, taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, and acquisitions of noncontrolling interests. Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations primarily relate to unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense, purchase commitments, and lease payments. There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, other than an increase in Unpaid Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense. The estimation of the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is based on various complex and subjective judgments. Actual losses paid may differ, perhaps significantly, from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Similarly, the timing of payment of our estimated losses is not fixed and there may be significant changes in actual payment activity. The assumptions used in estimating the likely payments due by period are based on our historical claims payment experience and industry payment patterns, but due to the inherent uncertainty in the process of estimating the timing of such payments, there is a risk that the amounts paid can be significantly different from the amounts disclosed. Critical Accounting Estimates We prepared our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, which requires the use of estimates and assumptions. Our consolidated financial statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of GAAP, are determined using best estimates and assumptions. Management has discussed and reviewed the development, selection, and disclosure of critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our board of directors. While we believe that the amounts included in our consolidated financial statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented. For further information, see Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the audited consolidated financial statements. Revenue For a description of policies with respect to revenue recognition, see Components of Results of Operations Revenue in this section along with Note 1 in the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in our consolidated financial statements. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserve Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves Recorded loss and loss adjustment expense reserves represents managements best estimate of the amounts yet to be paid for all loss and loss adjustment expenses that will be paid on claims that occurred during the period and prior, whether those claims are currently known or unknown. We hold a provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserve as of a given date based on actuarial analysis. Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are the amount of ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense less the paid amounts as of the balance sheet date. Ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense is the sum of the following items: 1.Loss and loss adjustment expense paid through a given evaluation date 2.Case reserves for loss and loss adjustment expense for losses that have been reported but not yet paid as of a given evaluation date 3.IBNR for loss and loss adjustment expense include an estimate for future loss payments on incurred claims not yet reported and for expected development on reported claims Case reserves are established within the claims adjustment process based on all known circumstances of a claim at the time. In addition, IBNR reserves are established by the Company based on reported loss and loss 74 adjustment expenses and estimates of ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses based on generally accepted actuarial reserving techniques that consider quantitative loss experience data and qualitative factors as appropriate. Inherent in the estimates of ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses are expected trends in claims severity and frequency among other factors that could vary significantly as claims are settled. The Companys loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are continually reviewed, and adjustments, if any, are reflected in current operations in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss in the period in which they become known. The establishment of new loss and loss adjustment expense reserves or the adjustment of previously recorded loss and loss adjustment expense reserves could result in significant positive or negative changes to our financial condition for any particular period. While the Company believes that it has made a reasonable estimate of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, the ultimate loss experience may not be as reliably predicted as may be the case with other insurance expenses, and it is possible that actual loss and loss adjustment expenses will be higher or lower than the loss and loss adjustment reserve amount recorded by the Company. Information Used in the Determination of the Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserve In order to estimate the provision for the recorded loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, we use information developed from both internal and independent external sources. This includes internal and external loss and claim count emergence patterns, pricing change information, internal and external loss and exposure trend information, as well as underwriting process changes. In addition, we use commercially available risk analysis models, and overall market share assumptions to estimate our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves related to specific loss events. Actuarial Methods Used in the Determination of the Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserve When the applicable information has been obtained, we use several actuarial methods to create estimates of the ultimate incurred losses in connection with the underwritten business. Our actuarial analysis uses inputs from our underwriting and claims departments, including pricing assumptions. The actuarial methods used to estimate loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are reported and/or paid loss and claim count development methods as well as reported and/or paid Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods. As appropriate, unallocated loss adjustment expenses are estimated using a Paid to Paid Method, whereby, historical paid unallocated loss adjustment expense is compared as a ratio to the paid loss and allocated loss adjustment expense amounts for the same calendar period. Based on this information, selected ratios are applied to the case reserve and estimated IBNR for loss and allocated loss adjustment expenses to estimate the provision for the unpaid unallocated loss adjustment expense. Based on the methods used for each accident period, estimates of ultimate loss and allocated loss adjustment expenses are selected. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer meet on a quarterly basis to review the recommendations made by the actuarial department, and determine the best estimate to be recorded for the reserve for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves on the balance sheet. Significant Assumptions Employed in the Recording of the Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserve The most significant assumptions used in the determination of the recorded reserve for loss and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 2024 are historical aggregate claim reporting and payment patterns, which is assumed to be indicative of future loss development and trends. Additionally, claim counts are used for analyses relating to natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, wind and hail events, and wildfires as losses from these events are inherently more difficult to estimate due to the potential exposure of the catastrophic events. Other assumptions considered include information developed from internal and independent external sources such as premium, rate and cost trends, litigation and regulatory trends, legislative activity, climate change, and social and economic patterns. The above assumptions most significantly influence our determination of initial expected loss ratios and expected loss reporting and payment patterns which are the key inputs that impact variability in the estimate of the reserve for loss and loss adjustment expenses. While there can be no assurance that any of the above assumptions as utilized will prove to be correct, we believe that these assumptions represent a realistic and appropriate basis for estimating the reserve for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. 75 The following table summarizes gross and net reserves for unpaid loss and LAE as of December 31, (in millions): 2024 2023 Gross Net Gross Net Loss and loss adjustment reserves IBNR $ 227.3 $ 75.2 $ 217.2 $ 72.5 Case reserves 122.7 44.9 105.3 28.6 Total reserves $ 350.0 $ 120.1 $ 322.5 $ 101.1 Sensitivity Analysis The table below shows the impact on the loss and loss adjustment expense reserve based on reasonably likely changes to our held unpaid amounts after consideration of our proportional and non-proportional reinsurance as of December 31, 2024 (in millions). 10% increase in ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses 10% decrease in ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses Impact on: Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, net $ 13.2 $ (10.9) For additional information refer to Note 11, Reinsurance, of the audited consolidated financial statements. Reinsurance Recoverable We also estimated the amount of reinsurance recoverable from reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance assets include reinsurance recoverable on unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves that are estimated as part of our loss reserving process and, consequently, are subject to similar judgments and uncertainties. This estimate requires significant judgment for which key considerations include: paid and unpaid amounts recoverable; any balances in dispute or subject to legal collection; the financial wellbeing of a reinsurer (i.e. insolvent, liquidated, in receivership or otherwise subject to formal or informal regulatory restriction); the likelihood of collection of the reinsurance recovery considering factors such as, amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, disputes, any collateral or letters of credit held and other relevant factors. For ceded reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met for reinsurance accounting to apply. If risk transfer requirements are not met, the contract is accounted for as a deposit, resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of both underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. Similar risk transfer criteria are used to determine whether directly written insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or as a deposit. For additional information refer to Note 12, Geographical Breakdown of Gross Written Premium, to the audited consolidated financial statements. Recoverability of Our Net Deferred Tax Asset The evaluation of the recoverability of our deferred tax asset and the need for a valuation allowance requires us to weigh all positive and negative evidence to reach a conclusion, that it is more likely than not, that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will be realized. The weight given to the evidence is commensurate with the extent to which it can be objectively verified. The more negative evidence that exists, the more positive evidence is necessary and the more difficult it is to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed. 76 We consider a number of factors to reliably estimate future taxable income so we can determine the extent of our ability to realize net operating loss (NOL), foreign tax credits, realized capital loss and other carryforwards. These factors include forecasts of future income for each of our businesses and actual and planned business and operational changes, both of which include assumptions about future macroeconomic and company-specific conditions and events. We subject the forecasts to stresses of key assumptions and evaluate the effect on tax attribute utilization. As of December 31, 2024, we have U.S. federal and state NOL carryforwards of $707.5 million and $428.7 million, respectively. We have $166.0 million of Dual Consolidated Losses in a 953(d) company, RH Solutions Insurance (Cayman) Ltd. The provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 eliminated the 20-year carryforward period so that federal NOLs generated in tax years after December 31, 2017 do not expire. For such amounts generated prior to 2018, the 20-year carryforward periods continue to apply. For additional information refer to Note 17, Income Taxes, to the audited consolidated financial statements. For additional information refer to Note 17, Income Taxes, to the audited consolidated financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For further information on recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 1, Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Emerging Growth Company Status We currently qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act. Accordingly, we are provided the option to adopt new or revised accounting guidance either (1) within the same periods as those otherwise applicable to non-emerging growth companies or (2) within the same time periods as private companies. We have elected to adopt new or revised accounting guidance within the same time period as private companies, unless management determines that it is preferable to take advantage of early adoption provisions offered within the applicable guidance. Our utilization of these transition periods may make it difficult to compare our financial statements to those of non-emerging growth companies and other emerging growth companies that have opted out of the transition periods afforded under the JOBS Act.