Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations COVID-19 Impact. Severe weather events and other catastrophes, including the effects of climate change, global pandemics, and terrorism, are inherently unpredictable and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and financial condition. Our homeowners insurance business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. Severe weather events include, but are not limited to, winter storms, tornadoes, hurricanes, rain, hail, and high winds. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are largely unpredictable. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, such as wildfires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, tropical storms, earthquakes, windstorms, hailstorms, severe thunderstorms, fires, and other non-natural events such as explosions, civil unrest, terrorism or war. Additionally, seasonal weather patterns impact the level and amount of claims we receive. These patterns include hurricanes, wildfires and coastal storms in the fall, cold weather patterns and changing home heating needs in the winter, and tornados and hailstorms in the spring and summer. The mix of geographic exposure and products within our customer base impacts our exposure to these weather patterns and as we diversify our base of premium such that our exposure more closely resembles the industry exposure, we should see the impact of these events on our business more closely resemble the impact on the broader industry. The incidence and severity of severe weather conditions and catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and the occurrence of one catastrophe does not render the possibility of another catastrophe greater or lower. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. In particular, severe weather and other catastrophes could significantly increase our costs due to a surge in claims following such events and/or legal and regulatory changes in response to catastrophes that may impair our ability to limit our liability under our policies. Severe weather conditions and catastrophes can cause greater losses for us, which can cause our liquidity and financial condition to deteriorate. Resulting reductions in our capital could materially adversely affect our ability to underwrite new or renew existing insurance policies. In addition, we may not be able to obtain reinsurance coverage at reasonable rates and in amounts or with coverages adequate to mitigate the risks associated with severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. While we only work with reinsurers whom we believe have acceptable credit, if our reinsurers are unable to pay for 50 the claims for which they are responsible, we could be exposed to additional liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Catastrophic losses, such as the 2021 storms in Texas, may result in our insurance companies incurring losses greater than those experienced in prior years, the expected level of losses including modeled losses, and current reinsurance limits. Climate change may affect the occurrence of certain natural events, such as an increase in the frequency or severity of snow, wind and thunderstorm events, and tornado or hailstorm events due to increased convection in the atmosphere; more frequent wildfires in certain geographies; higher incidence of deluge flooding and the potential for an increase in severity of the hurricane events due to higher sea surface temperatures. Additionally, climate change may cause an impact on the demand, price and availability of homeowners insurance and reinsurance coverages, as well as the value of our investment portfolio. Due to significant variability associated with future changing climate conditions, we are unable to predict the impact climate change will have on our business. We expect our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis. In addition, our operating results and operating metrics are subject to seasonality and volatility, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results or in perceptions of our business prospects. Our revenue and results of operations could vary significantly from period to period and may fail to match expectations as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. Our results may vary as a result of fluctuations in the number of customers purchasing our insurance products and fluctuations in the timing and amount of our expenses. In addition, the insurance industry, and particularly homeowners insurance, are subject to their own cyclical trends and uncertainties, including extreme weather which is often seasonal and may result in volatility in claims reporting and payment patterns. Fluctuations and variability across the industry may affect our revenue. As a result of the potential variations in our revenue and results of operations, period-to-period comparisons may not be meaningful and the results of any one period should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. In addition, our results of operations may not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts who follow us, which may adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues and resulting fluctuations in our rate of growth as a result of insurance spending patterns. Specifically, our revenues may be proportionately higher in our third fiscal quarter due to the seasonality of when homeowners purchase and move into new homes, which historically occurs at higher rates in the months of July, August, and September. Accordingly, the amount of growth we experience may also be greater in the third quarter. As our business expands and matures, other seasonality trends may develop and the existing seasonality and customer behavior that we experience may change. Volatility in our key operating metrics or their rates of growth could have a negative impact on our financial results and investor perceptions of our business prospects and a failure to achieve our quarterly forecasts or to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors will cause our stock price to decline. An overall decline in economic activity could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of our business. The demand for property and casualty insurance generally rises as the overall level of household income increases and generally falls as household income decreases, affecting premiums, commissions and fees generated by our business. Some new accounts are sourced by referral sources tied to home closing transactions, and major slowdowns in the various housing markets we serve could impact our ability to generate new business. The economic activity that impacts property and casualty insurance is most closely correlated with employment levels, corporate revenue, and asset values. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted by environmental, social and governance (ESG) requirements. Our financial and operational results could be impacted by emerging risk and changes to the regulatory landscape in areas like ESG requirements. While we closely monitor and respond to topics like social, environmental, and demographic changes that include longer lifespans, income and wealth inequalities, environmental challenges and opportunities to expand global access to the financial system across all segments of the population, updated and changing regulatory and societal environment requirements could impact financial and operational results. 51 Changes and uncertainty in U.S. and non-U.S. legislation, policy or regulation regarding climate risk management or other ESG practices may result in higher regulatory costs, compliance costs and increased capital expenditures, and changes in regulations may impact security asset prices, resulting in realized or unrealized losses on our investments. Physical risks and transitional risks could increase the companys cost of doing business and actual or perceived failure to adequately address ESG expectations of our various stakeholders could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers and clients. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to limitations in the analytical models used to assess and predict our exposure to catastrophe losses. Along with others in the insurance industry, models developed internally and by third-party vendors are used along with our own historical data in assessing property insurance exposure to catastrophe losses. These models assume various conditions and probability scenarios; however, they do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or measure losses currently incurred. Further, the accuracy of such models may be negatively impacted by changing climate conditions, including increased weather severity patterns. Catastrophe models use historical information and scientific research about natural events, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, as well as detailed information about our in-force business. This information is used in connection with pricing and risk management activities. However, since actual catastrophic events vary considerably, there are limitations with respect to its usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period. Other limitations are evident in significant variations in estimates between models, material increases and decreases in results due to model changes and refinements of the underlying data elements and actual conditions that are not yet well understood or may not be properly incorporated into the models. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements. The risk-based capital standards, based upon the Risk-based Capital Model Act developed by the NAIC and adopted in all states, including our insurance subsidiaries states of domicile, require our insurance company subsidiaries to report results of risk-based capital calculations to their domestic regulator. These risk-based capital standards provide for different levels of regulatory attention depending upon the ratio of an insurance companys total adjusted capital, as calculated in accordance with the NAICs RBC formula, to its authorized control level risk-based capital. Authorized control level risk-based capital is determined using the NAICs risk-based capital formula, which measures the minimum amount of capital that an insurance company needs to support its overall business operations. An insurance company with total adjusted capital that is less than 200% of its authorized control level risk-based capital is at a company action level, which would require the insurance company to file a risk-based capital plan that, among other things, contains proposals of corrective actions the company intends to take that are reasonably expected to result in the elimination of the company action level event. Additional action level events occur when the insurers total adjusted capital falls below 150%, 100%, and 70% of its authorized control level risk-based capital. The lower the percentage, the more severe the regulatory response, including, in the event of a mandatory control level event (total adjusted capital falls below 70% of the insurers authorized control level risk-based capital), placing the insurance company into receiversh ip. As of December 31, 2021, Spinnaker Insurance Companys risk-based capital ratio was well in excess of minimum statutory requirements. In addition, our insurance company subsidiaries are required to maintain certain minimum capital and surplus and generally must keep their net written premiums within specified multiples of its surplus that regulators customarily view as prudent. The insurance company subsidiaries could exceed these ratios if their volume increases faster than anticipated or if their surplus declines due to catastrophe or non-catastrophe losses or excessive underwriting and operational expenses. Any failure by our insurance company subsidiaries to meet the applicable risk-based capital or minimum statutory capital requirements or the writings ratio limitations regulators customarily use where we currently or may in the future conduct business could subject us to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation. 52 Any changes in existing risk-based capital requirements, minimum statutory capital requirements, or customary writings ratios may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we may be unable to do. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to assessments and other surcharges from state guaranty funds and mandatory state insurance facilities, which may reduce our profitability. The insurance laws of many states subject property and casualty insurers doing business in those states to statutory property and casualty guaranty fund assessments. The purpose of a guaranty fund is to protect customers by requiring that solvent property and casualty insurers pay the insurance claims of insolvent insurers. These guaranty associations generally pay these claims by assessing solvent insurers proportionately based on each insurers share of voluntary premiums written in the state. While most guaranty associations provide for recovery of assessments through subsequent rate increases, surcharges or premium tax credits, there is no assurance that insurers will ultimately recover these assessments, which could be material, particularly following a large catastrophe or in markets which become disrupted. Maximum contributions required by law in any one year vary by state. We cannot predict with certainty the amount of future assessments because they depend on factors outside our control, such as insolvencies of other insurance companies. Significant assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Performance of our investment portfolio is subject to a variety of investment risks that may adversely affect our financial results. Our results of operations depend, in part, on the performance of our investment portfolio. We seek to hold a diversified portfolio of investments in accordance with our investment policy and routinely reviewed by our investment committee. However, our investments are subject to general economic and market risks as well as risks inherent to particular securities. Our primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates and overall debt markets given that a majority of our portfolio is invested in debt securities, treasury bills, municipal bonds and mortgage- and asset-backed securities. We have limited exposure to equities but may in the future increase our portfolios allocation to equities. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk . In recent years, interest rates have been at or near historic lows. A protracted low interest rate environment would continue to place pressure on our net investment income, particularly as it relates to fixed income securities and short-term investments, which, in turn, may adversely affect our operating results. Future increases in interest rates could cause the values of our fixed income securities portfolios to decline, with the magnitude of the decline depending on the duration of securities included in our portfolio and the amount by which interest rates increase. Some fixed income securities have call or prepayment options, which create possible reinvestment risk in declining rate environments. Other fixed income securities, such as mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, carry prepayment risk or, in a rising interest rate environment, may not prepay as quickly as expected. The value of our investment portfolio is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities we hold, or due to deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuers payments on such investments. Downgrades in the credit ratings of fixed maturities also have a significant negative effect on the market valuation of such securities. Such factors could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. Our investment portfolio is subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. The valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the securities we hold in our portfolio does not reflect prices at which actual transactions would occur. We may also invest in marketable equity securities. These securities are carried on the balance sheet at fair market value and are subject to potential losses and declines in market value. 53 Risks for all types of securities are managed through the application of our investment policy, which establishes investment parameters that include, but are not limited to, maximum percentages of investment in certain types of securities and minimum levels of credit quality, which we believe are within applicable guidelines established by the NAIC. Although we seek to preserve our capital, we cannot be certain that our investment objectives will be achieved, and results may vary substantially over time. In addition, although we seek to employ investment strategies that are not correlated with our insurance and reinsurance exposures, losses in our investment portfolio may occur at the same time as underwriting losses and, therefore, exacerbate the adverse effect of the losses on us. Unexpected changes in the interpretation of our coverage or provisions, including loss limitations and exclusions in our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurances that specifically negotiated loss limitations or exclusions in our policies will be enforceable in the manner we intend. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social, and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. While these limitations and exclusions help us assess and mitigate our loss exposure, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void a limitation or exclusion, or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such limitations or exclusions. These types of governmental actions could result in higher than anticipated loss and loss adjustment expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, court decisions, such as the 1995 Montrose decision in which the California Supreme Court eliminated long standing coverage limitations by a narrow reading of policy exclusions. In these cases, insurers are required to create and write new exclusions to establish the intended coverage. These types of cases and the issues they raise may adversely affect our business by either broadening coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the frequency or severity of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock There may not be an active trading market for our common stock, which may make it difficult to sell shares of our common stock, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to comply with the continued listing standards of such exchange. We have listed Hippo Holdings Inc.s common stock and Hippo Holdings Inc.s warrants on the NYSE under the symbols HIPO and HIPO.WS, respectively. However, it is possible that an active trading market will not develop or, if developed, that any market will not be sustained. This would make it difficult for you to sell shares of our common stock at an attractive price or at all. The market price of our common stock and warrants may be highly volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Even if an active trading market develops, the trading price of our common stock could be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The following factors, in addition to other factors described in this Risk Factors section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: the occurrence of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes; our operating and financial performance, quarterly or annual earnings relative to similar companies; publication of research reports or news stories about us, our competitors or our industry, or positive or negative recommendations, or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; the publics reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, business plans or commercial relationships; any major change in our board of directors or senior management, including the departure of our CEO; sales of our common stock by us, our directors, executive officers, principal shareholders, our CEO and/or the PIPE Investors, or expectations of such sales given the release of shares from applicable lock-ups over time; adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; 54 short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions in our common stock; exposure to capital market risks related to changes in interest rates, realized investment losses, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and performance of insurance-linked investments; our creditworthiness, financial condition, performance, and prospects; changes in the fair values of our financial instruments (including certain warrants assumed in connection with the Business Combination); our dividend policy and whether dividends on our common stock have been, and are likely to be, declared and paid from time to time; perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives; regulatory or legal developments; changes in general market, economic, and political conditions; conditions or trends in our industry, geographies, or customers; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our management, employees, partners, customers, operating results, and the general market and economy; and threatened or actual litigation or government investigations. In addition, broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and factors beyond our control may cause our stock price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of managements attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our markets, or if they adversely change their recommendations or publish negative reports regarding our business or our stock, our stock price and trading volume could materially decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our markets, or our competitors. We cannot provide any assurance that analysts will cover us or provide favorable coverage. If any of the analysts who may cover us adversely change their recommendation regarding our stock, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price could materially decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to materially decline. Some provisions of our Certificate or Incorporation and Bylaws and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and they may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL), could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions include: our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms, and directors are only able to be removed from office for cause; nothing in our Certificate of Incorporation precludes future issuances without stockholder approval of the authorized but unissued shares of our common stock; advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders; our stockholders are only able to take action at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; only our chairman of the board of directors, our chief executive officer, our president, or a majority of the board of directors are authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; 55 no provision in our Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws provides for cumulative voting, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; certain amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation requires the approval of two-thirds of the then outstanding voting power of our capital stock; our Bylaws provide that the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the then-outstanding voting power of our capital stock, voting as a single class, is required for stockholders to amend or adopt any provision of our Bylaws; our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued, without the approval of the holders of our capital stock; and certain litigation against us can only be brought in Delaware. Our Certificate of Incorporation states that we shall not engage in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless: the business combination or transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder was approved by the board of directors prior to the time that the stockholder became an interested stockholder; upon consummation of the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding shares owned by directors who are also officers of the corporation and shares owned by employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or at or subsequent to the time the stockholder became an interested stockholder, the business combination was approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders, and not by written consent, by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock which is not owned by the interested stockholder. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay, or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those you desire. Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control. Under applicable state insurance laws and regulations, no person may acquire control of a domestic insurance company until written approval is obtained from the state insurance commissioner on the proposed acquisition. Such approval would be contingent upon the state insurance commissioners consideration of a number of factors including, among others, the financial strength of the proposed acquiror, the acquirors plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. For example, pursuant to both the Illinois Holding Company Act and the Texas Holding Company Act, a person must either (a) seek regulatory approval from the Director or Commissioner of each states insurance regulatory authority prior to acquiring direct or indirect control of a domestic insurer by filing a Form A application, or (b) obtain an exemption from such requirement from the relevant Director or Commissioner if the transaction does not result in the actual change of control as defined in the states Holding Company Act. We cannot predict with certainty whether a state will approve applications for exemptions or the timing of such decisions by the states, or whether regulators may impose conditions on or in connection with these applications that might be considered burdensome in nature. If a state insurance regulatory authority were to deny an application for an exemption, we would be required to seek the prior approval of the regulatory authority of the transaction pursuant to a Form A filing. These requirements may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change of control of our insurance company subsidiary, including through transactions that some or all of the stockholders might consider to be desirable. 56 Our Certificate of Incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, and unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed to us or our stockholders by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising under the DGCL, (iv) any action, suit or proceeding as to which the DGCL confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or (v) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Certificate of Incorporation provides that the exclusive forum provision will not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. Similarly, Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. These provisions may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with any applicable action brought against us, a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in the Certificate of Incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action. Claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors and officers, in each case, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that directors of a corporation will not be personally liable for monetary damages for any breach of fiduciary duties as directors, except liability for: any breach of the directors duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders; any act or omission not in good faith or that involves intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; unlawful payments of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions; or any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. Such limitation of liability does not apply to liabilities arising under federal securities laws and does not affect the availability of equitable remedies such as injunctive relief or rescission. Our Bylaws provide that we are required to indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law and may indemnify our other employees and agents. Our Bylaws also provide that, on satisfaction of certain conditions, we will advance expenses incurred by a director or officer in advance of the final disposition of any action or proceeding, and permit us to secure insurance on behalf of any officer, director, employee or other agent for any liability arising out of his or her actions in that capacity regardless of whether we would otherwise be permitted to indemnify him or her under the provisions of Delaware law. We have entered and expect to continue to enter into agreements to indemnify our directors and executive officers. With certain exceptions, these agreements provide for indemnification for related expenses, including attorneys fees, judgments, fines, and settlement amounts incurred by any of these individuals in connection with any action, proceeding or investigation. We believe that these certificate of incorporation and bylaws provisions and indemnification agreements are necessary to attract and retain qualified persons as directors and officers. While we maintain directors and officers liability insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur, which may reduce our available funds to satisfy third-party claims and may adversely impact our cash position. 57 Taking advantage of the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors. The JOBS Act provides that, so long as a company qualifies as an emerging growth company, it will, among other things: be required to have only two years of audited financial statements and only two years of related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations disclosure; be exempt from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that its independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting; be exempt from the say on pay and say on golden parachute advisory vote requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act); and be exempt from certain disclosure requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to compensation of its executive officers and be permitted to omit the detailed compensation discussion and analysis from proxy statements and reports filed under the Exchange Act. We currently intend to take advantage of each of the exemptions described above. Further, pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we have elected to take advantage of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. As a result, our operating results and financial statements may not be comparable to the operating results and financial statements of other companies who have adopted the new or revised accounting standards. It is possible that some investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result, which may result in a less active trading market for our common stock and higher volatility in our stock price. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years after this transaction. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we elect to rely on these exemptions, or if taking advantage of these exemptions would result in less active trading or more volatility in the price of our common stock. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are required to comply with the SECs rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. Although we are required to disclose changes made in our internal