Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. For several years prior to 2022, interest rates were at or near historic lows. A protracted low interest rate environment would continue to place pressure on our net investment income, particularly as it relates to fixed income securities and short-term investments, which, in turn, may adversely affect our operating results. Interest rates increased significantly in 2022 and 2023, and future increases in interest rates could cause the values of our fixed income securities portfolios to decline, with the magnitude of the decline depending on the duration of securities included in our portfolio and the amount by which interest rates increase. Some fixed income securities have call or prepayment options, which create possible 45 reinvestment risk in declining rate environments. Other fixed income securities, such as mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, carry prepayment risk or, in a rising interest rate environment, may not prepay as quickly as expected. The value of our investment portfolio is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities we hold, or due to deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuers payments on such investments. Downgrades in the credit ratings of fixed maturities also have a significant negative effect on the market valuation of such securities. Such factors could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. Our investment portfolio is subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. The valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the securities we hold in our portfolio does not reflect prices at which actual transactions would occur. We may also invest in marketable equity securities. These securities are carried on the balance sheet at fair market value and are subject to potential losses and declines in market value. Risks for all types of securities are managed through the application of our investment policy, which establishes investment parameters that include, but are not limited to, maximum percentages of investment in certain types of securities and minimum levels of credit quality, which we believe are within applicable guidelines established by the NAIC. Although we seek to preserve our capital, we cannot be certain that our investment objectives will be achieved, and results may vary substantially over time. In addition, although we seek to employ investment strategies that are not correlated with our insurance and reinsurance exposures, losses in our investment portfolio may occur at the same time as underwriting losses and, therefore, exacerbate the adverse effect of the losses on us. Unexpected changes in the interpretation of our coverage or provisions, including loss limitations and exclusions in our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurances that specifically negotiated loss limitations or exclusions in our policies will be enforceable in the manner we intend. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social, and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. While these limitations and exclusions help us assess and mitigate our loss exposure, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void a limitation or exclusion, or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such limitations or exclusions. These types of governmental actions could result in higher than anticipated loss and loss adjustment expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, court decisions can have a similar effect, such as the 1995 Montrose decision in which the California Supreme Court eliminated long standing coverage limitations by a narrow reading of policy exclusions. In these cases, insurers are required to create and write new exclusions to establish the intended coverage. These types of cases and the issues they raise may adversely affect our business by either broadening coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the frequency or severity of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. The COVID-19 pandemic caused disruption to our operations and may continue to negatively impact our business, key metrics, or results of operations in ways that remain unpredictable. In January 2020, the outbreak of COVID-19 was recognized as a public health emergency of international concern, or pandemic, by the World Health Organization, and the WHO declared an end to the pandemic on May 5, 2023. The spread of COVID-19 caused us to modify our business practices (including employee travel, employee work locations in certain cases and cancellation of physical participation in meetings, events and conferences and to increase our use of web-based solutions for business processes like meetings and working remote solutions) and severely impacted businesses worldwide, including many in the insurance sector. Certain effects of the COVID-19 46 pandemic are expected to continue to impact our loss ratios as homes are still being used more intensively due to widespread remote working environments, as home infrastructure and equipment breakdowns occur more frequently with increased use. COVID-19 also delayed our recoverability of premiums where moratoriums were imposed and delayed the launch of some of our Hippo Home Care products. Although the pandemic has come to a conclusion, the full extent of COVID-19 related financial impact on our business cannot be accurately predicted at this time. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock There may not be an active trading market for our common stock, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to comply with the continued listing standards of the NYSE or other another reputable stock exchange, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell our securities. Hippo Holdings Inc.s common stock and Hippo Holdings Inc.s warrants are listed on the NYSE under the symbols HIPO and HIPO.WS, respectively. However, it is possible that an active trading market will not develop or, if developed, that any market will not be sustained. This would make it difficult for you to sell shares of our common stock at an attractive price or at all. The NYSE requires listing issuers to comply with certain standards in order to remain listed on its exchange. If, for any reason, the NYSE should delist our securities from trading on its exchange and we are unable to obtain listing on another reputable national securities exchange, a reduction in some or all of the following may occur, each of which could materially adversely affect our stockholders: the liquidity of our securities; the market price of our securities; our ability to obtain financing; the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in our securities; the number of market makers in our securities; the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our securities; and the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our securities. On July 19, 2022, we received a notice from the NYSE that the Company was not in compliance with the NYSE continued listing standard set forth in Section 802.01C of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, as the average closing price of the Companys common stock was less than $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30-trading day period. We had six months following receipt of the notification to regain compliance with the minimum share price requirement, and if we failed to regain compliance during this period, our securities could have been delisted. On September 29, 2022, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to effect a 1-for-25 reverse stock split of the Companys common stock and a corresponding adjustment to its authorized capital stock. The reverse stock split and corresponding capital stock adjustment became effective as of 11:59 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on September 29, 2022. The market price of our common stock and warrants may be highly volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. The trading price of our common stock could be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The following factors, in addition to other factors described in this Risk Factors section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: the occurrence of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes; our operating and financial performance, quarterly or annual earnings relative to similar companies; 47 publication of research reports or news stories about us, our competitors or our industry, or positive or negative recommendations, or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; the publics reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, business plans or commercial relationships; any major change in our board of directors or senior management, including the departure of our CEO; sales of our common stock by us, our directors, executive officers, principal shareholders, our CEO and/or the investors party to the subscription agreements dated March 3, 2021, or expectations of such sales given the release of shares from applicable lock-ups over time; adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions in our common stock; exposure to capital market risks related to changes in interest rates, realized investment losses, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and performance of insurance-linked investments; our creditworthiness, financial condition, performance, and prospects; changes in the fair values of our financial instruments (including certain warrants assumed in connection with the Business Combination); our dividend policy and whether dividends on our common stock have been, and are likely to be, declared and paid from time to time; perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives; regulatory or legal developments; changes in general market, economic, and political conditions; conditions or trends in our industry, geographies, or customers; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and threatened or actual litigation or government investigations. In addition, broad market and industry factors, such as recessions, loss of investor confidence or continued interest rate increases may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and factors beyond our control may cause our stock price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of managements attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our markets, or if they adversely change their recommendations or publish negative reports regarding our business or our stock, our stock price and trading volume could materially decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our markets, or our competitors. We cannot provide any assurance that analysts will cover us or provide favorable coverage. If any of the analysts who may cover us adversely change their recommendation regarding our stock, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price could materially decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to materially decline. 48 Some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and they may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL), could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions include: our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms, and directors are only able to be removed from office for cause; nothing in our Certificate of Incorporation precludes future issuances without stockholder approval of the authorized but unissued shares of our common stock; advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders; our stockholders are only able to take action at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; only our chairman of the board of directors, our chief executive officer, our president, or a majority of the board of directors are authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; no provision in our Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws provides for cumulative voting, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; certain amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation require the approval of two-thirds of the then outstanding voting power of our capital stock; our Bylaws provide that the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the then-outstanding voting power of our capital stock, voting as a single class, is required for stockholders to amend or adopt any provision of our Bylaws; our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued, without the approval of the holders of our capital stock; and certain litigation against us can only be brought in Delaware. Our Certificate of Incorporation states that we shall not engage in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless: the business combination or transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder was approved by the board of directors prior to the time that the stockholder became an interested stockholder; upon consummation of the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding shares owned by directors who are also officers of the corporation and shares owned by employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or at or subsequent to the time the stockholder became an interested stockholder, the business combination was approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders, and not by written consent, by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock which is not owned by the interested stockholder. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay, or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those you desire. 49 Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control. Under applicable state insurance laws and regulations, no person may acquire control of a domestic insurance company until written approval is obtained from the state insurance commissioner on the proposed acquisition. Such approval would be contingent upon the state insurance commissioners consideration of a number of factors including, among others, the financial strength of the proposed acquirer, the acquirers plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. For example, pursuant to both the Illinois Holding Company Act and the Texas Holding Company Act, a person must either (a) seek regulatory approval from the Director or Commissioner of each states insurance regulatory authority prior to acquiring direct or indirect control of a domestic insurer by filing a Form A application, or (b) obtain an exemption from such requirement from the relevant Director or Commissioner if the transaction does not result in the actual change of control as defined in the states Holding Company Act. We cannot predict with certainty whether a state will approve applications for exemptions or the timing of such decisions by the states, or whether regulators may impose conditions on or in connection with these applications that might be considered burdensome in nature. If a state insurance regulatory authority were to deny an application for an exemption, we would be required to seek the prior approval of the regulatory authority of the transaction pursuant to a Form A filing. These requirements may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change of control of our insurance company subsidiary, including through transactions that some or all of the stockholders might consider to be desirable. Our Certificate of Incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, and unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed to us or our stockholders by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising under the DGCL, (iv) any action, suit or proceeding as to which the DGCL confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or (v) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Certificate of Incorporation provides that the exclusive forum provision will not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. Similarly, Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. These provisions may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with any applicable action brought against us, a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in the Certificate of Incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action. Claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors and officers, in each case, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that directors of a corporation will not be personally liable for monetary damages for any breach of fiduciary duties as directors, except liability for: any breach of the directors duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders; any act or omission not in good faith or that involves intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; unlawful payments of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions; or any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. 50 Such limitation of liability does not apply to liabilities arising under federal securities laws and does not affect the availability of equitable remedies such as injunctive relief or rescission. Our Bylaws provide that we are required to indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law and may indemnify our other employees and agents. Our Bylaws also provide that, on satisfaction of certain conditions, we will advance expenses incurred by a director or officer in advance of the final disposition of any action or proceeding, and permit us to secure insurance on behalf of any officer, director, employee or other agent for any liability arising out of his or her actions in that capacity regardless of whether we would otherwise be permitted to indemnify him or her under the provisions of Delaware law. We have entered and expect to continue to enter into agreements to indemnify our directors and executive officers. With certain exceptions, these agreements provide for indemnification for related expenses, including attorneys fees, judgments, fines, and settlement amounts incurred by any of these individuals in connection with any action, proceeding or investigation. We believe that these certificate of incorporation and bylaws provisions and indemnification agreements are necessary to attract and retain qualified persons as directors and officers. While we maintain directors and officers liability insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur, which may reduce our available funds to satisfy third-party claims and may adversely impact our cash position. Taking advantage of the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors. The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (JOBS Act) provides that, so long as a company qualifies as an emerging growth company, it will, among other things: be required to have only two years of audited financial statements and only two years of related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations disclosure; be exempt from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that its independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting; be exempt from the say on pay and say on golden parachute advisory vote requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act); and be exempt from certain disclosure requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to compensation of its executive officers and be permitted to omit the detailed compensation discussion and analysis from proxy statements and reports filed under the Exchange Act. We currently intend to take advantage of each of the exemptions described above. Further, pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we have elected to take advantage of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. As a result, our operating results and financial statements may not be comparable to the operating results and financial statements of other companies who have adopted the new or revised accounting standards. It is possible that some investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result, which may result in a less active trading market for our common stock and higher volatility in our stock price. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five fiscal years after the closing of RTPZs initial public offering, or until December 31, 2025. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we elect to rely on these exemptions, or if taking advantage of these exemptions would result in less active trading or more volatility in the price of our common stock. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are required to comply with the SECs rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. As an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the date we are no longer 51 an emerging growth company. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, or operating. To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we have undertaken various actions, and will need to take additional actions, such as implementing numerous internal