Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to Reinvent Technology Partners Z. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations, including our proposed business combination with Hippo Enterprises Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Hippo Business Combination), and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in the Risk Factors section of Amendment No. 1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A filed with the SEC on May 11, 2021, in our Registration Statement on Form S-4 related to the Hippo Business Combination and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Our filings with the SEC can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, we disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on October 2, 2020 as a Cayman Islands exempted company for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). While we may pursue an initial business combination target in any industry or geographic location, we intend to focus our search for a target business operating in the consumer internet, mobile gaming or broader technology sectors. Our sponsor is Reinvent Sponsor Z LLC, a Cayman Islands exempted limited liability company (our Sponsor). Our registration statement for our initial public offering (the Initial Public Offering) was declared effective on November 18, 2020. On November 23, 2020, we consummated our Initial Public Offering of 23,000,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A ordinary shares included in the Units, the Public Shares), including 3,000,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments (the Over-Allotment Units), at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $230.0 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $13.1 million, inclusive of approximately $8.1 million in deferred underwriting commissions. Substantially concurrently with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (the Private Placement) of 4,400,000 warrants (each, a Private Placement Warrant and collectively, the Private Placement Warrants), at a price of $1.50 per Private Placement Warrant to our Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $6.6 million. Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement, an aggregate of $230.0 million ($10.00 per Unit) of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and certain of the proceeds of the Private Placement was placed in a trust account (Trust Account) with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee and invested in United States government treasury bills with a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds investing solely in U.S. Treasuries and meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act, as determined by the Company, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account as described below. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of our Initial Public Offering, or 27 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering if the Company has executed a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for an initial Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of our Initial Public Offering (as such period may be extended, the Combination Period), we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up; (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to us to fund our working capital requirements, subject to an annual limit of $165,000, and/or to pay our income taxes, if any, (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses and which interest shall be net of taxes payable) divided by the number of the then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish Public Shareholders rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any); and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining shareholders and our board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in each case, to our obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception through March 31, 2021 related to our formation, the preparation for the Initial Public Offering, and since the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the search for a prospective initial Business Combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any operating revenues to date. We will not generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial Business Combination, at the earliest. We will generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and cash equivalents. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. Additionally, we recognize non-cash gains and losses within other income (expense) related to changes in recurring fair value measurement of our warrant liabilities at each reporting period. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had a net loss of approximately $2.5 million, which consisted of approximately $1.5 million in general and administrative costs and $1.1 million change in the fair value of derivative warrant liabilities, partially offset by approximately $53,000 gain on the investments held in the Trust Account. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2021, we had approximately $623,000 in our operating bank account, working capital of approximately $90,000, and no interest income available in the Trust Account to fund our working capital requirements, subject to an annual limit of $165,000, and/or to pay our taxes, if any. Our liquidity needs have been satisfied prior to the completion of the Initial Public Offering through receipt of a $25,000 capital contribution from our Sponsor in exchange for the issuance of the Founder Shares to our Sponsor and the advancement of funds by our Sponsor to cover our expenses in connection with the Initial Public Offering. In addition, our Sponsor advanced approximately $60,000 to us under a promissory note (the Note). The Company repaid the Note in full as of November 23, 2020. Subsequent to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering and Private Placement, our liquidity needs have been satisfied from the proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, provide us working capital loans (Working Capital Loans). As of March 31, 2021, there were no amounts outstanding under any Working Capital Loan. Based on the foregoing, management believes that we will have sufficient working capital and borrowing capacity from our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or our officers and directors to meet our needs through the earlier of the consummation of a Business Combination or one year from this filing. Over this time period, we will be using these funds for paying existing accounts payable, identifying and evaluating prospective initial Business Combination candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to merge with or acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination. 20 Table of Contents We continue to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and has concluded that the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of the balance sheet. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt obligations, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations, purchase obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay support services fees to Reinvent Capital LLC (Reinvent Capital) that total $625,000 per year for support and administrative services (Support Services Agreement), as well as reimburse Reinvent Capital for any out-of-pocket expenses it incurs in connection with providing services or for office space under this agreement. As of March 31, 2021, we paid $0 to Reinvent Capital as part of the Support Services Agreement and recognized approximately $156,000 in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2021 the balance of approximately $104,000 is included in Prepaid Expenses on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2021. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we incurred approximately $12,000 in reimbursable expenses paid by the Sponsor, which was recognized in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations and included in Due to Related Party on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies This managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to fair value of financial instruments and accrued expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company has identified the following as its critical accounting policies: Derivative Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of our financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to ASC 480 and ASC 815-15. The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. We issued an aggregate of 4,600,000 common stock warrants associated with Units issued to investors in our Initial Public Offering and the underwriters exercise of their overallotment option and we issued 4,400,000 Private Placement Warrants. All of our outstanding warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC 815-40. Accordingly, we recognize the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjust the instruments to fair value at each reporting period. The liabilities are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in the Companys statement of operations. The fair value of warrants issued in connection with the Public Offering, Over-Allotment exercise and Private Placement has been estimated using Monte-Carlo simulations at each measurement date. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A ordinary shares (including Class A ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at March 31, 2021, 20,238,565 Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of the Companys balance sheet. Net Income (Loss) Per Ordinary Share Net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the periods. We have not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement to purchase an aggregate of 9,000,000 of the Companys Class A ordinary shares in the calculation of diluted income (loss) per share, since their inclusion would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. 21 Table of Contents Our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations include a presentation of income (loss) per share for ordinary shares subject to redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income (loss) per share. Net income (loss) per ordinary share, basic and diluted for Class A ordinary shares are calculated by dividing the interest income (loss) earned on investments held in the Trust Account, net of applicable taxes and interest to fund working capital requirements, subject to an annual limit of $165,000, available to be withdrawn from the Trust Account, resulting in income of approximately $53,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, by the weighted average number of Class A ordinary shares outstanding for the period. Net loss per ordinary share, basic and diluted for Class B ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net income (loss), less income (loss) attributable to Class A ordinary shares by the weighted average number of Class B ordinary shares outstanding for the period. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Our management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier. This may make comparison of the Companys financial statements with another public company that is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company that has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used.