ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we, our, Hippo and the Company refer to the business and operations of Hippo Holdings Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview Hippo is a different kind of home protection company, built from the ground up to provide a higher standard of care and protection for homeowners. Our goal is to make homes safer and better protected so that customers spend less time worrying about the burdens of homeownership and more time enjoying their homes and their lives within. Harnessing real-time data, smart home technology, and a suite of home services, we have created an integrated home protection platform. The home insurance industry has long been defined by incumbents that we believe deliver a passive, high- friction experience to policyholders. We view these incumbents as constrained by outdated captive-agent distribution models, legacy technology, and strong incentives not to disrupt their businesses. Accordingly, the industry has not seen meaningful innovation in decades. We believe this results in a flawed customer experience that creates a transactional, adversarial relationshipone that pits insurance companies and their policyholders against each other in a zero-sum game. The outcome of this misalignment is an experience that is out of touch with the needs of modern homeowners. As a digital-first, customer-centric company, we offer an improved customer value proposition and are well-positioned to succeed in this growing market. By making our policies fast and easy to buy, designing coverages around the needs of modern homeowners, and making tools available to homeowners to help them proactively maintain their homes and potentially prevent claims, we have created an active partnership with our customers to better protect their homes, which saves our customers money and is expected to deliver a better economic outcome for Hippo. Beyond a core insurance experience that is simple, intuitive, and human, we focus our resources on Hippos true promise: better outcomes for homeowners. With the support of Hippo Home Care, customers may be better prepared to detect and address home maintenance issues before they become major losses. And we help our customers maintain their homes with maintenance advice and access to experts and services designed to reduce the probability of future losses. In short, we have created an integrated home protection platform, which offers a suite of proactive features designed to prevent loss and provide greater peace of mind. Our partnership with our customers is designed to create a virtuous cycle. By making homes safer, we help deliver better risk outcomes and increase customer loyalty, which improves our unit economics and customer lifetime value (LTV). This enables us to invest in expanding our product offering, customer value proposition, and marketing programs, which help attract more customers to the Hippo family. This growth generates more data and insights to fuel further innovation in our product experience and improved underwriting precision. The result is even safer homes and more loyal customers. We believe this virtuous cycle, combined with our significant existing scale, deep partnerships, and compelling unit economics, will propel Hippo to become a trusted household name synonymous with home protection. In the third quarter of 2023 we began taking several actions to lower the volatility of our Hippo Homeowners Insurance Program portfolio in light of the significant catastrophe losses we experienced in the second quarter, including raising rates on a portion of our renewal business, increasing deductibles for wind and hail perils, selectively non-renewing policies in certain regions, and instituting a nationwide pause on underwriting new 32 premiums for our HO3 business as we examine our risk appetite. We also launched an expense reduction initiative across the Company, including a reduction in staff we announced in October 2023. Reinsurance We utilize reinsurance primarily to support the growth of our new and renewal insurance business, to reduce the volatility of our earnings, and to optimize our capital management. As an MGA, we underwrite homeowners insurance policies on behalf of our insurance company subsidiaries (Spinnaker and SSIC) and other non-affiliated third-party insurance carriers. These carriers purchase reinsurance from a variety of sources and in a variety of structures. In the basic form of this arrangement, fronting insurance carriers will typically cede a significant portion of the total insurance premium they earn from customers, in return for a proportional amount of reinsurance protection. This is known as ceding premium and losses through a quota share reinsurance treaty. The fronting carrier and the MGA are paid a percentage of the ceded premium as compensation for sales and marketing, underwriting, insurance, support, claims administration, and other related services (in totality, known as a ceding commission). As additional protection against natural catastrophes or other large loss events, the fronting carrier frequently purchases additional, non-proportional reinsurance. Without reinsurance protection, the insurer would shoulder all of the insurance risk itself and would need incremental capital to satisfy regulators and rating agencies. Reinsurance allows a carrier to write more business while reducing its balance sheet exposure and volatility of earnings. Proportional Reinsurance Treaties Hippo For our primary homeowners reinsurance treaty commencing in 2023, we secured proportional reinsurance from a diverse panel of third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are either rated A- Excellent or better by AM Best, or the reinsurance is appropriately collateralized. In 2023, we retain approximately 40% of the premium through our insurance company subsidiaries or our captive reinsurance company, RHS, before purchasing catastrophe protection. Additionally, the reinsurance contracts are subject to contingent commission adjustments and loss participation features, which align our interests with those of our reinsurers. Loss participation features may increase the amount of losses retained by our insurance company subsidiaries in excess of our pro rata participation. For business produced through our builder channel, we purchased proportional reinsurance from three third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are rated A- Excellent or better by AM Best, or the reinsurance is appropriately collateralized. In 2023, we are retaining approximately 58% of the premium produced through our insurance company subsidiaries or RHS, before purchasing catastrophe protection. The reinsurance contracts are subject to contingent commission adjustments and limited loss participation features, which align our interests with those of the reinsurers. For our primary homeowners reinsurance treaty commencing in 2022, we secured quota share reinsurance from a diverse panel of third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are either rated A- Excellentor better by AM Best, or the reinsurance is collateralized. In 2022, we retained approximately 10% of the premium through our insurance company subsidiaries, including our captive reinsurance company, RHS. Additionally, the reinsurance contracts are subject to variable commission adjustments and loss participation features, including loss ratio caps and loss corridors, which align our interests with those of our reinsurers. Similar to the prior year, we saw increased use of loss participation features in the 2022 reinsurance agreements, which increased the amount of losses retained by our insurance company subsidiaries in excess of our pro rata participation in both the 2022 and 2023 fiscal periods. For our primary homeowners reinsurance treaty that commenced in 2021, we secured proportional reinsurance from a diverse panel of third-party reinsurers with AM Best ratings of A- Excellent or better. A total of approximately 12% of the premium was retained either by Spinnaker or RHS, which aligns the Companys 33 interests with third-party reinsurers. Two of the reinsurers, representing approximately one-third of the programs, provided three-year agreements. We also seek to further reduce our risk retention through purchases of non-proportional reinsurance described below. Non-Proportional Reinsurance Hippo We also purchase non-proportional XOL reinsurance which includes traditional reinsurance protection, catastrophe bonds, and industry loss warranty products. Through our insurance company subsidiaries, we are exposed to the risk of natural catastrophe events that could occur on the risks arising from policies underwritten by us or other MGAs. We are also exposed to this risk through our captive reinsurer, which takes on a share of the risk underwritten by our MGA business. In May 2023, Spinnaker secured new catastrophe protection through a per occurrence excess of loss reinsurance agreement with Mountain Re Ltd. (Mountain Re), an independent Bermuda company, licensed as a Special Purpose Insurer.The reinsurance agreement meets the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with the guidance for reinsurance contracts. In connection with the reinsurance agreement, Mountain Re issued notes (generally referred to as catastrophe bonds) to investors, consistent with the amount of coverage provided under the reinsurance agreement. The reinsurance agreement provides us with coverage through June 2026, and pursuant to the agreement, Mountain Re provides XOL reinsurance coverage to Spinnaker for losses from a variety of perils, including named storms, fire following an earthquake, severe thunderstorms, and winter storms on business produced through the Hippo MGA. Under the terms of the reinsurance agreement, we are obligated to pay annual reinsurance premiums to Mountain Re for the reinsurance coverage. Amounts payable under the reinsurance agreement with respect to any covered event cannot exceed our actual losses from such event. The principal amount of the catastrophe bonds will be reduced by any amounts paid to us under the reinsurance agreement. In June 2023, our captive reinsurance company, RHS, entered into an Industry Loss Warranty (ILW) with a third party under which loss payments are triggered by reference to the level of losses incurred by the insurance industry as whole for pre-defined events, rather than by losses incurred by us. RHS entered into the ILW in order to hedge the risk of us experiencing a catastrophic hurricane loss on business assumed. Our XOL program provides us protection from catastrophes that could impact a large number of insurance policies. We buy XOL so that the probability of losses from a single occurrence exceeding the protection purchased is no more than 0.4%, or equivalent to a 1 in 250 year return period when considered with the corporate catastrophe XOL described below under Other Reinsurance. This reinsurance protects us from all but the most severe catastrophic events. Other Reinsurance Spinnaker also purchases reinsurance for programs written by MGAs other than Hippo. The reinsurance treaties are a mix of proportional and XOL in which approximately 75% to 100% of the risk is ceded. The reinsurance contracts are subject to variable commission adjustments and loss participation features, including loss caps, and may increase the amount of losses retained by us in excess of our pro-rata participation. Such provisions are recognized in the period based on the experience to date under the agreement. Spinnaker purchases a corporate catastrophe XOL program that attaches above the reinsurance programs protecting the business written by Hippo as well as the other MGAs. This treaty has a floating retention and attaches at the exhaustion point of the underlying programs specific reinsurance. The catastrophe bonds described above inures to the benefit of this contract. This program provides us protection from catastrophes that could impact a large number of insurance policies underwritten by us or other MGAs. We buy XOL so that the probability of losses from 34 a single occurrence exceeding the protection purchased is no more than 0.4%, or equivalent to a 1 in 250 year return period. This reinsurance protects us from all but the most severe catastrophic events. We also purchase reinsurance from the State Board of Administration in Florida via the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (the FHCF) and the Reinsurance to Assist Policyholders (the RAP) program for residential hurricane losses in the State of Florida. This coverage is provided and required by the State of Florida. We currently purchase reimbursement protection at the maximum level (90%) of mandatory coverage offered by the FHCF. Key Factors and Trends Affecting our Operating Results Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and will continue to be, affected by a number of factors, including the following: Our Ability to Attract New Customers Our long-term growth will depend, in large part, on our continued ability to attract new customers to our platform. For Hippo home insurance policies, we seek to minimize the volatility of our portfolio and are currently in process of analyzing overall underwriting results for the segment, taking actions as needed. Our short-term focus is on attracting new customers to our licensed insurance agency to purchase non-Hippo policies and to our home care offerings, although over time we expect to strategically return to Hippo underwritten policies as our underwriting actions take hold. We intend to continue to drive new customer growth by highlighting our consumer-focused approach to home protection and insurance across multiple distribution channels, regardless of whether the customer is a Hippo policyholder. In particular, we seek to grow by: Promoting our agency for sales of non-Hippo policies, growing our network of partners within existing partner channels, and geographically optimizing our Hippo policyholder base; Developing new strategic partnerships with key players involved in the real estate transaction ecosystem; and Deepening our relationships with our customers by connecting them to partners offering value-added services that are not specifically insurance products, such as home maintenance, home monitoring, and energy consumption optimization. Our ability to attract new customers depends on the pricing of our products, the offerings of our competitors, our geographic reach, and the extent and effectiveness of our marketing efforts. Our ability to attract customers also depends on maintaining and strengthening our brand by providing superior customer experiences across all of our offerings through our proactive, tech-enabled strategy. We face competition from traditional insurers who have more diverse product offerings and longer established operating histories, as well as from new, technology-driven entrants who may pursue more horizontal growth strategies. These competitors may mimic certain aspects of our digital platform and offerings and have more types of insurance products, allowing them to offer customers the ability to bundle multiple coverage types together, which may be attractive to many customers. Although the COVID-19 pandemic and the various responses to it created significant worldwide volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption over the past few years, recently there has been a return to more normal societal interactions, including in the way we operate our business. We cannot predict the future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic or any new public health events. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors for more information. Our Ability to Retain Customers Our ability to derive significant lifetime value from our customer relationships depends, in part, on our ability to retain our customers over time. Strong retention allows us to build a recurring revenue base, generating additional premium term over term without material incremental marketing costs. Our customers typically become 35 more valuable to us over time because retention rates have historically increased with the age of customer cohorts and because non-catastrophic loss frequency declines as cohorts mature. As we expect to broadly retain our customers who are not located in high severe weather exposed regions, over the long-term, we expect our book of business to evolve to be weighted more towards renewals versus new business, as is the case with our more mature competitors. We expect that this would enable us to benefit from the higher premium retention rates and inherently lower frequency of losses that characterize renewed premiums. Our ability to retain customers will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our products, offerings of our competitors, and our ability to continue delivering exceptional customer service and support. Our Ability to Manage Regulatory Impact, Including on Our Efforts to Manage Our Exposure to Volatility We are subject to extensive laws, regulations, administrative directives, and regulatory actions. From time to time, regulatory authorities or legislative bodies seek to influence and restrict premium rates, require premium refunds to policyholders, require reinstatement of terminated policies, restrict the ability of insurers to cancel or non-renew policies, require insurers to continue to write new policies or limit their ability to write new policies, limit insurers ability to change coverage terms and deductibles or to impose underwriting standards, impose additional regulations regarding agency and broker compensation, impose fines and penalties for unintended errors or mistakes, impose additional regulations regarding cybersecurity and privacy, and otherwise expand overall regulation of insurance products and the insurance industry. These laws may limit or restrict our ability to reduce our exposures, including to weather related losses. Our Ability to Expand Fee Income and Premium Through Cross-Sales to Existing Customers Our strategy to increase the value we are providing to our customers is to offer incremental services to assist our customers in better maintaining and protecting their homes. As we roll out these services, we expect to be able to generate incremental, non-risk-based service and fee income from our existing customers. We expect these home protection services not only to generate incremental revenue, but also to reduce losses for our customers, andby implicationour loss ratios. Our success in expanding revenue and reducing losses by offering these services depends on our ability to market these services, our operational ability to deliver value to our customers, and the ability of these services to reduce the probability of loss for an average homeowner. We are also in the early stages of cross-selling non-homeowner insurance products across our customer base. Cross-sales allow us to generate additional premium per customer, and ultimately higher revenue and fee income, without material incremental marketing spend. Our success in expanding revenue through cross-sales depends on our marketing efforts with new products, offerings of our competitors, additional expansion into new states, and the pricing of our bundled products. Our Ability to Manage Risk We leverage data, technology, and geographic diversity to help manage risk. For instance, we obtain dynamic data from various sources and use advanced statistical methods to model that data into our pricing algorithm. Incorporating these external data sources and utilizing the experience gained with our own customer base should lead to better underwriting, reduced loss frequency, andadjusting for weather related eventslower loss ratios over time. While our current reinsurance framework helps us manage the volatility of earnings, reducing our overall gross loss ratio is critical to our success. Our ability to incorporate new data sources as they become available and to use them to improve our ability to accurately and competitively price risk is central to our growth strategy. 36 Seasonality of Claims Losses Seasonal patterns can impact our incurrence of claims losses,as seasonal weather patterns impact the level and amount of claims we receive. These patterns include hurricanes, wildfires, and coastal storms in the fall, cold weather patterns and changing home heating needs in the winter, and tornados and hailstorms in the spring and summer. The mix of geographic exposure and products within our customer base impacts our exposure to these weather patterns, and as we diversify our base of premium such that our exposure more closely resembles the industry exposure, we should see the impact of these events on our business more closely resemble the impact on the broader industry. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Gross Written Premium Gross written premium is the amount received or to be received for insurance policies written or assumed by us and our affiliates as a carrier, without reduction for policy acquisition costs, reinsurance costs, or other deductions. In addition, gross written premium includes amounts received from our participation in our own reinsurance treaties. The volume of our gross written premium in any given period is generally influenced by: New business submissions; Binding of new business submissions into policies; Bound policies going effective; Renewals of existing policies; and Average size and premium rate of bound policies. Ceded Written Premium Ceded written premium is the amount of gross written premium written or assumed by us and our affiliates as a carrier that we cede to reinsurers. We enter into reinsurance contracts to limit our exposure to losses, as well as to provide additional capacity for growth. Ceded written premium is treated as a reduction from gross written premium written during a specific period of time over the reinsurance contract period in proportion to the period of risk covered. The volume of our ceded written premium is impacted by the level of our gross written premium and decisions we make to increase or decrease retention levels. Net Earned Premium Net earned premium represents the earned portion of our gross written premium for insurance policies written or assumed by us and less the earned portion of ceded written premium (any portion of our gross written premium that is ceded to third-party reinsurers under our reinsurance agreements). We earn written premiums on a pro-rata basis over the term of the policies. Commission Income, Net Includes: a.MGA Commission: We operate as an MGA for multiple insurers. We design and underwrite insurance products on behalf of the insurers culminating in the sale of insurance policies. We earn recurring commission and policy fees associated with the policies we sell. We have underwriting authority and responsibility for administering claims (see Claim Processing Fees below) and, we work with affiliated and unaffiliated carrier platforms and a diversified panel of highly rated reinsurance companies who pay us commission in exchange for the opportunity to take that risk on their balance sheets. Our performance obligation associated with these contracts is the placement of the policy, which is met on the effective date. Upon issuance of a new policy, we charge policy fees and inspection fees (see Service and Fee Income below), retain our share of commission, and remit the balance to the respective insurers. Subsequent 37 commission adjustments arising from policy changes such as endorsements are recognized in the period when the adjustments occur. The MGA commission is subject to adjustments, higher or lower (commonly referred to as commission slide), depending on the underwriting performance of the policies placed by us. We are required to return a portion of our MGA commission due to commission slide on the policies placed as an MGA if the underwriting performance varies due to higher Hippo programs loss ratio from provisional performance of the Hippo programs loss ratio. We also return a portion of our MGA commission if the policies are cancelled before the term of the policy. Accordingly, we reserve for commission slide using estimated Hippo programs loss ratio performance, or a cancellation reserve as a reduction of revenue for each period presented in our statement of operations and comprehensive loss. b.Agency Commission: We also operate licensed insurance agencies that are engaged solely in the sale of policies, including non-Hippo policies. For these policies, we earn a recurring agency commission from the carriers whose policies we sell, which is recorded in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Similar to the MGA businesses, the performance obligation from the agency contracts is placement of the insurance policies. For both MGA and insurance agency activities, we recognize commission received from insurers for the sale of insurance contracts as revenue at a point in time on the policy effective dates. Cash received in advance of policy effective dates is recorded on the consolidated balance sheets, representing our portion of commission and premium due to insurers and reinsurers, and we hold this cash in trust for the benefit of the insurers and reinsurers as fiduciary liabilities. c.Ceding Commission: We receive commission based on the premium we cede to third-party reinsurers for the reimbursement for our acquisition and underwriting services. Excess ceding commission over the cost of acquisition is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. For the policies that we write on our own carrier as MGA, we recognize this commission as ceding commission on the statement of operations and comprehensive loss. We earn commission on reinsurance premium ceded in a manner consistent with the recognition of the earned premium on the underlying insurance policies, on a pro rata basis over the terms of the policies reinsured. We record the portion of ceding commission income, which represents reimbursement of successful direct acquisition costs related to the underlying policies as an offset to the applicable direct acquisition costs. d.Carrier Fronting Fees: Through our insurance-as-a-service business, we earn fronting fees from the MGA programs we support. We earn fronting fees in a manner consistent with the recognition of the earned premium on the underlying insurance policies, on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. This revenue is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. e.Claim Processing Fees: As an MGA, we receive a fee that is calculated as a percent of the premium from the insurers in exchange for providing claims adjudication services. The claims adjudication services are provided over the term of the policy and recognized ratably over the same period. This revenue is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Service and Fee Income Service and fee income mainly represents policy fees and other revenue. We directly bill policyholders for policy fees and collect and retain fees per the terms of the contracts between us and our insurers. Similar to the commission revenue, we estimate a cancellation reserve for policy fees using historical information. The performance obligation associated with these fees is satisfied at a point in time upon completion of the underwriting process, which is the policy effective date. Accordingly, we recognize all fees as revenue on the policy effective date. 38 Net Investment Income Net investment income represents interest earned from fixed maturity securities, short-term investments and other investments, and the gains or losses from the sale of investments. Our cash and invested assets primarily consist of investment grade fixed-maturity securities, and may also include cash and cash equivalents, equity securities, and short-term investments. The principal factors that influence net investment income are the size of our investment portfolio and the yield on that portfolio. As measured by amortized cost (which excludes changes in fair value, such as changes in interest rates), the size of our investment portfolio is mainly a function of our invested equity capital along with premium we receive from our customers less payments on customer claims. Net investment income also includes an insignificant amount of net realized gains (losses) on investments, which are a function of the difference between the amount received by us on the sale of a security and the securitys amortized cost, as well as any allowances for credit losses recognized in earnings, if any. Expenses Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses Loss and loss adjustment expenses represent the costs incurred for losses net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. We enter into reinsurance contracts to limit our exposure to potential losses as well as to provide additional capacity for growth. The expenses are a function of the size and term of the insurance policies and the loss experience and loss participation features associated with the underlying risks. Loss and LAE are based on actuarial assumptions and management judgements, including losses incurred during the period and changes in estimates from prior periods. Loss and LAE also include employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) of our claims processing teams, as well as allocated occupancy costs and related overhead based on headcount. Insurance Related Expenses Insurance related expenses primarily consist of amortization of direct acquisition commission costs and premium taxes incurred on the successful acquisition of business written on a direct basis and credit card processing fees not charged to our customers. Insurance related expenses also include employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) of our underwriting teams, as well as allocated occupancy costs and related overhead based on headcount. Insurance related expenses are offset by a portion of ceding commission income, which represents reimbursement of successful acquisition costs related to the underlying policies. Additionally, insurance related expenses include the costs of providing bound policies and delivering claims services to our customers. These costs include underwriting technology service costs including software, data services used for performing underwriting, and third-party call center costs in addition to personnel-related costs. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for our technology staff, which includes technology development, infrastructure support, actuarial, and third-party services. Technology and development also include allocated facility costs and related overhead based on headcount. We expense development costs as incurred, except for costs related to internal-use software development projects, which are capitalized and subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the developed software. We expect our technology and development costs to decrease in the near-term as we seek to reduce internal expenses and focus on achieving profitability. Over the long term, our technology and development costs may increase as we invest in research and development activities to achieve our technology development roadmap. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of sales commission, advertising costs, and marketing expenditures, as well as employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for employees engaged in sales, marketing, data analytics, and customer acquisition. Sales and marketing also include allocated facility costs and related overhead based on headcount. 39 We plan to continue to invest in sales and marketing to attract and acquire new customers and to increase our brand awareness. However, we expect that our sales and marketing expenses will decrease in the near term as we seek to reduce internal expenses. Over the long term, sales and marketing costs may increase in absolute dollars and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue, and over time may decrease as a percentage of revenue as we continue to drive customer acquisition efficiencies and as the proportion of renewals to our total business increases. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for our finance, human resources, legal, and general management functions, as well as facilities, insurance, and professional services. We expect our general and administrative expenses to remain relatively flat in the near term. However, these expenses may increase over the long term as we scale headcount with the growth of our business. Impairment and Restructuring Charges Impairment and restructuring charges consist of non-cash impairment charges relating to goodwill. We review goodwill for impairment annually on October 1 and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the fair value of the reporting units goodwill is calculated and an impairment loss equal to the excess is recorded. It also consists of severance and other personnel costs associated with exit and disposal activities as well as reductions in workforce. Interest and Other (Income) Expense Interest and other (income) expense primarily consists of fair value adjustments on outstanding warrants. Income Taxes We record income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we record deferred income tax assets and liabilities based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between the financial statement and income tax basis of existing assets and liabilities. We measure these differences using the enacted statutory tax rates that are expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which differences are expected to reverse. We recognize the effect on deferred income taxes of a change in tax rates in income in the period that includes the enactment date. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets and liabilities to the net amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations, and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Key Operating and Financial Metrics and Non-GAAP Measures We regularly review the following key operating and financial metrics in order to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends in our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. The non-GAAP financial measures below have not been calculated in accordance with GAAP and should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. In addition, adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an indicator of our operating performance, liquidity, or cash flows generated by operating, investing, and financing activities, as there may be significant factors or trends that it fails to address. We caution investors that non-GAAP financial informationby its naturedeparts from traditional accounting conventions. Therefore, its use can make it difficult to compare our current results with our results from other reporting periods and with the results of other companies. Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures, in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as an integral part of managing our business and to, among other things: (i) monitor and evaluate the performance of our business operations and financial performance; (ii) facilitate internal comparisons of the historical operating 40 performance of our business operations; (iii) review and assess the operating performance of our management team; (iv) analyze and evaluate financial and strategic planning decisions regarding future operating investments; and (v) plan for and prepare future annual operating budgets and determine appropriate levels of operating investments. Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 2023 2022 ($ in millions) Total Generated Premium $ 303.7 $ 219.9 $ 866.3 $ 577.6 Total Revenue 57.7 30.7 145.2 83.9 Net Loss attributable to Hippo (53.1) (129.2) (230.8) (270.3) Adjusted EBITDA (38.4) (54.8) (178.3) (159.1) Gross Loss Ratio 59 % 110 % 81 % 89 % Net Loss Ratio 111 % 223 % 219 % 245 % Total Generated Premium We define Total Generated Premium as the aggregate written premium placed across all of our business platforms for the period presented. We measure Total Generated Premium as it reflects the volume of our business irrespective of choices related to how we structure our reinsurance treaties, the amount of risk we retain on our own balance sheet, or the amount of business written in our capacity as an MGA, agency, or as an insurance carrier/reinsurer. We calculate Total Generated Premium as the sum of: i)Gross written premium (GWP)a GAAP measure defined above; and ii)Gross placed premiumpremium of policies placed with third-party insurance companies, for which we do not retain insurance risk and for which we earn a commission payment, and policy fees charged by us to the policyholders on the effective date of the policy. Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 Change 2023 2022 Change ($ in millions) Gross Written Premium $ 229.5 $ 173.3 $ 56.2 $ 663.6 $ 452.2 $ 211.4 Gross Placed Premium 74.2 46.6 $ 27.6 $ 202.7 $ 125.4 $ 77.3 Total Generated Premium $ 303.7 $ 219.9 $ 83.8 $ 866.3 $ 577.6 $ 288.7 Our Total Generated Premium for the three months ended September 30, 2023 grew 38% year-over-year to $303.7 million from $219.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The growth was driven primarily by the growth of non-Hippo written premium supported by our Insurance-as-a-Service business as well as the continued growth across channels in existing states, expansion of our independent agent network, maintaining solid premium retention levels, and achieving planned premium rate increases. Our Total Generated Premium for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 grew 50% year-over-year to $866.3 million from $577.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The growth was driven primarily by the growth of non-Hippo written premium supported by our Insurance-as-a-Service business as well as the continued growth across channels in existing states, expansion of our independent agent network, maintaining solid premium retention levels, and achieving planned premium rate increases. Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (adjusted EBITDA), a Non-GAAP financial measure, as net loss attributable to Hippo excluding interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, net investment income, restructuring charges, impairment 41 expense, other non-cash fair market value adjustments, contingent consideration for one of our acquisitions, and other transactions that we consider to be unique in nature. For the three months ended September 30, 2023, adjusted EBITDA loss was $38.4 million, a decrease of $16.4 million compared to $54.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a growth in revenue reflecting an increase in premiums earned mainly due to higher premium retention as a result of the 2023 reinsurance treaty compared to 2022, a lower net loss ratio, and a decrease in advertising costs. These improvements in EBITDA were partially offset by an increase in losses due to the overall growth of our total book of business. For the three months ended September 30, 2023, our net loss ratio was 111% compared to 223% for the three months ended September 30, 2022. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, adjusted EBITDA loss was $178.3 million, an increase of $19.2 million compared to $159.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, due primarily to an increase in losses due primarily to PCS catastrophic weather and other weather loss experience. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease in advertising costs and an increase in revenues. The following table provides a reconciliation from net loss attributable to Hippo to adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 2023 2022 Net loss attributable to Hippo $ (53.1) $ (129.2) $ (230.8) $ (270.3) Adjustments: Net investment income (5.7) (2.5) (16.5) (4.0) Depreciation and amortization 4.9 3.8 14.4 11.2 Stock-based compensation 14.0 17.0 46.8 46.3 Fair value adjustments (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (2.8) Contingent consideration charge 0.8 0.2 4.5 2.6 Other one-off transactions 1.2 0.5 3.3 1.8 Income tax expense (0.3) 0.3 0.2 0.8 Restructuring charges 1.8 1.8 Goodwill impairment charge 53.5 53.5 Adjusted EBITDA $ (38.4) $ (54.8) $ (178.3) $ (159.1) 42 Gross Loss Ratio Gross Loss Ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the Gross Losses and LAE to the Gross Earned Premium (in millions). Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 2023 2022 Gross Losses and LAE $ 124.5 $ 153.7 $ 450.9 $ 345.9 Gross Earned Premium 210.7 139.8 563.0 388.7 Gross Loss Ratio 59 % 110 % 81 % 89 % The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross Loss Ratio by PCS and non-PCS events. Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 2023 2022 PCS losses 6 % 45 % 28 % 29 % Non-PCS losses 53 % 65 % 53 % 60 % Gross loss ratio 59 % 110 % 81 % 89 % For the three months ended September 30, 2023, our Gross Loss Ratio was 59% compared with 110% for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The three months ended September 30, 2023 includes 11 percentage points of favorable PCS developments in the current quarter relating to events incurred in the first six months of the year due to reduced uncertainty in loss and loss adjustment expense. There was no PCS or Non-PCS prior year developments in the current quarter. The three months ended September 30, 2022 includes 52 percentage points related to Hurricane Ian, which was partially offset by prior year favorable developments of 8 percentage points for Non-PCS events and 10 percentage points for PCS events. The prior year quarter also includes 6 percentage points of favorable PCS developments in the prior years quarter relating to events incurred in the first six months of the prior year. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, our Gross Loss Ratio was 81% net of a prior year favorable development of 2 percentage points relating to Non-PCS events and 1 percentage point relating to PCS events, compared with 89% net of a prior year favorable development of 10 percentage points for Non-PCS events and 9 percentage points relating to PCS events for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. Net Loss Ratio Net loss ratio expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the net losses and LAE to the net earned premium (in millions). Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 2023 2022 Net Losses and LAE $ 36.5 $ 23.9 $ 150.9 $ 75.6 Net Earned Premium 32.9 10.7 69.0 30.9 Net Loss Ratio 111 % 223 % 219 % 245 % For the three months ended September 30, 2023, our net loss ratio was 111% compared with 223% for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The three months ended September 30, 2023 includes 36 percentage points of favorable PCS developments in the current quarter relating to events incurred in the first six months of the year due to reduced uncertainty in loss and loss adjustment expense. There was no PCS or Non-PCS prior year 43 developments in the current quarter. The three months ended September 30, 2022 includes 44 percentage points related to Hurricane Ian, which was partially offset by prior year favorable developments of 16 percentage points for Non-PCS events and 15 percentage points for PCS events. The prior year quarter also includes 24 percentage points of favorable PCS developments in the prior years quarter relating to events incurred in the first six months of the prior year. The decrease from the prior year quarter was also due to the positive impact of our underwriting and pricing actions on our Non-PCS losses, the increase in our net earned premium as a result of higher premium retention on our 2023 reinsurance treaty, and the growth of our total book of business. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, our net loss ratio was 219% compared with 245% for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease was due primarily to the positive impact of our underwriting and pricing actions on our Non-PCS losses, the increase in net earned premium as a result of higher premium retention on our 2023 reinsurance treaty, and the growth of our total book of business. This was partially offset by an increase in PCS catastrophic weather losses and other weather loss experience and loss participation features in our reinsurance treaties. Segment Information Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 ($ in millions) Services Insurance-as-a-Service Hippo Home Insurance Program Intersegment Eliminations(1) Total Total Generated Premium $ 121.6 $ 141.8 $ 95.0 $ (54.7) $ 303.7 Total Revenue 11.6 19.4 28.9 (2.2) 57.7 Adjusted operating income (loss) (9.7) 3.6 (31.7) (0.6) (38.4) Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 ($ in millions) Services Insurance-as-a-Service Hippo Home Insurance Program Intersegment Eliminations(1) Total Total Generated Premium $ 92.4 $ 82.6 $ 94.1 $ (49.2) $ 219.9 Total Revenue 9.5 10.0 16.3 (5.1) 30.7 Adjusted operating income (loss) (16.0) 2.0 (40.8) (54.8) Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 ($ in millions) Services Insurance-as-a-Service Hippo Home Insurance Program Intersegment Eliminations(1) Total Total Generated Premium $ 337.6 $ 397.5 $ 289.4 $ (158.2) $ 866.3 Total Revenue 32.8 48.6 71.0 (7.2) 145.2 Adjusted operating income (loss) (30.3) 11.5 (157.9) (1.6) (178.3) 44 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 ($ in millions) Services Insurance-as-a-Service Hippo Home Insurance Program Intersegment Eliminations(1) Total Total Generated Premium $ 255.9 $ 194.9 $ 266.2 $ (139.4) $ 577.6 Total Revenue 25.8 25.0 45.6 (12.5) 83.9 Adjusted operating income (loss) (35.6) 3.8 (127.3) (159.1) (1)Intersegment eliminations include commissions paid from Hippo Home Insurance Program for policies sold by the Companys Services segment (revenue, cost, and other adjustments in respective business units eliminated as part of consolidation). Intersegment eliminations also include premiums written between the segments. Segment adjusted operating income (loss) is our primary segment profitability measure, and is calculated as segment revenue less operating expenses that are directly attributable to the segments. Refer to Note 17 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information on segments and a reconciliation of Segment adjusted operating income (loss) to net loss attributable to Hippo. Services For the three months ended September 30, 2023, our Services segment, which earns fees and/or commission income without assuming underwriting risk or need for reinsurance, had Total Generated Premium of $121.6 million, an increase of 32% from $92.4 million over the prior year quarter, while revenue was $11.6 million, an increase of 22% from $9.5 million over the prior year quarter. The growth was driven primarily by the growth in our builder channel for new and renewal business, as we maintain higher retention rates and experienced premium rate increases. The growth was also due to the growth in the total book of business in our aggregator channel. Our adjusted operating loss was $9.7 million, a decrease of 39% compared to a loss of $16.0 million in the prior year quarter, due primarily to a decrease in advertising costs and the increase in revenue noted above. These amounts were partially offset by increases in other operating expenses. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, our Services segment had Total Generated Premium of $337.6 million, an increase of 32% from $255.9 million over the prior year period, while revenue was $32.8 million, an increase of 27% from $25.8 million over the prior year period. The growth was driven primarily by the growth in our builder channel for new and renewal business, as we maintain higher retention rates and experienced premium rate increases. The growth was also due to the growth in the total book of business in our aggregator channel. Our adjusted operating loss was $30.3 million, a decrease of 15% compared to a loss of $35.6 million in the prior year period due primarily to the increase in revenue as noted above. Insurance-as-a-Service Our Insurance-as-a-Service segment, which through our carrier, Spinnaker, leverages our capital and insurance licenses to provide capacity to third party MGAs, creating diversified income through fees, underwriting profits, and investment income. For the three months ended September 30, 2023, Total Generated Premium was $141.8 million, an increase of 72% from $82.6 million over the prior year quarter, while revenue was $19.4 million, an increase of 94% from $10.0 million over the prior year quarter. The growth was driven primarily by the performance of existing programs. Adjusted operating income was $3.6 million, an increase of 80% compared to income of $2.0 million in the prior year quarter, due primarily to the increase in revenue mentioned above, partially offset by an increase in insurance related expenses due to the growth of the book of business. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, our Insurance-as-a-Service segments Total Generated Premium was $397.5 million, an increase of 104% from $194.9 million over the prior year period, while revenue was $48.6 million, an increase of 94% from $25.0 million over the prior year period. The growth was driven primarily by the performance of both new and existing programs. Adjusted operating income was $11.5 million, an increase of 203% compared to $3.8 million in the prior year period, due primarily to the increase in revenue 45 mentioned above, partially offset by an increase in insurance related expenses due to the growth of the book of business. Hippo Home Insurance Program For the three months ended September 30, 2023, our Hippo Homeowners Insurance Program had Total Generated Premium of $95.0 million, an increase of 1% from $94.1 million over the prior year quarter, while revenue was $28.9 million, an increase of 77% from $16.3 million over the prior year quarter. The increase in revenue was due primarily to higher earned premiums, partially offset by a decrease in commission income, net, reflecting changes in our 2023 reinsurance treaties, resulting in higher premium retention, and achieving planned premium rate increases. The increase in revenue from net earned premiums was partially offset by an increased cost of XOL premiums for our catastrophic coverage which results in an increase in ceded earned premium and lower net earned premium. We purchased XOL to cover events in excess of per occurrence limits based on the expected growth in exposure during the year. For the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, $7.4 million and $9.7 million, respectively, was offset against earned premium for XOL. Adjusted operating loss was $31.7 million in the quarter, a decrease of 22% compared to a loss of $40.8 million in the prior year quarter. The decrease in adjusted operating loss was due primarily to the increase in revenue noted above. Based in part on the second quarter impact of PCS cat losses of $109.9 million on a gross basis and $50.9 million on a net basis, we began taking decisive actions to reduce our future exposure to wind and hail, with the explicit goal of reducing the volatility of our financial results. Our aim is to materially reduce our exposure to the hail and storm risks which have caused a disproportionate portion of our losses to date. We have temporarily put on hold the underwriting of new premiums nationwide for our HO3 product as we re-examine our risk appetite in light of observed changes in weather and climate activity. For renewals, we are implementing actions that include increasing deductibles for wind and hail perils, selectively non-renewing policies in high-risk regions, and increasing the rates we charge for cat-exposed properties across our portfolio. We expect these actions will result in Total Generated Premium declines in 2024. In addition, we have taken steps during the quarter to reduce our Hippo Home Insurance Programs dependence on the reinsurance market and the costs associated with not retaining the risk we underwrite on our own balance sheet, including the catastrophe bonds noted in our reinsurance disclosures above. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, our Hippo Homeowners Insurance Program had Total Generated Premium of $289.4 million, an increase of 9% from $266.2 million over the prior year period, while revenue was $71.0 million, an increase of 56% from $45.6 million over the prior year period. The increase in revenue was due primarily to higher earned premiums, partially offset by a decrease in commission income, net, reflecting changes in our 2023 reinsurance treaties, resulting in higher premium retention, and achieving planned premium rate increases. There was also an increase in investment income due to an increase in yields. The increase in revenue from net earned premiums was partially offset by an increased cost of XOL premiums for our catastrophic coverage, which results in an increase in ceded earned premium and lower net earned premium. We purchased XOL to cover events in excess of per occurrence limits based on the expected growth in exposure during the year. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, $23.3 million and $21.3 million, respectively, was offset against earned premium for XOL. Adjusted operating loss was $157.9 million, an increase of 24% compared to a loss of $127.3 million in the prior year period. The increase in adjusted operating loss was due primarily to an increase in PCS catastrophic weather and other weather loss experience and our loss participation features primarily due to five major wind and hail events in Colorado and Texas during the second quarter of 2023, partially offset by an increase in earned premium as noted above. Hippo Home Insurance Program Gross Loss Ratio Hippo Home Insurance Program Gross Loss Ratio (HPGLR) is a key performance indicator that represents our underwriting operational performance for the entire Total Generated Premium underwritten by Hippo as part of the Hippo Home Insurance Program. This ratio includes losses and premiums written and placed on Spinnaker (our carrier) as well as other carriers for Hippo policies (policies underwritten by the Hippo MGA). For 46 the periods presented, changes in this ratio also impact our ceding commission revenue and loss participation features in our reinsurance treaties, which is included in loss and loss adjustment expense on our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. This ratio is also used by our reinsurers and other carriers to make business decisions relating to the capacity of reinsurance and amount of ceding commission that would be available to Hippo. The lower the ratio, the better the economics for Hippo. Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 2023 2022 Hippo Home Insurance Program Non-PCS 69 % 73 % 63 % 69 % PCS 6 % 7 % 55 % 22 % HPGLR 75 % 80 % 118 % 91 % For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 HPGLR was 75% and 118%, respectively, compared to 80% and 91% in the prior year. Excluding the impact of prior year reserve releases, HPGLR was 75% and 121%, respectively, compared to 101% and 116% in the prior year. Excluding the impact of prior year reserve releases, the PCS component of HPGLR for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 was 6% and 56%, respectively, compared to 19% and 34% in the prior year. The decrease for the three-month period was primarily due to losses related to Hurricane Ian in the prior year period. The increase for the nine-months period reflected catastrophes in the first half of the year primarily due to hail and wind, unusually heavy rains, and snow in parts of California, our second largest market. Excluding the impact of prior year reserve releases, the Non-PCS component of HPGLR for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 was 69% and 65%, respectively, compared to 82% and 82% in the prior year. This represents a decrease of 13 percentage points and 17 percentage points, respectively. The decrease reflected the benefits of the pricing and underwriting actions we took in calendar years 2022 and 2023. We expect continued improvement as these actions have more time to impact our financial results. 47 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations data for the periods presented (in millions, except percent data): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2023 2022 Change % Change 2023 2022 Change % Change Revenue: Net earned premium $ 32.9 $ 10.7 $ 22.2 207 % 69.0 30.9 $ 38.1 123 % Commission income, net 14.2 14.3 (0.1) (1) % 47.8 38.7 9.1 24 % Service and fee income 4.9 3.2 1.7 53 % 11.9 10.3 1.6 16 % Net investment income 5.7 2.5 3.2 128 % 16.5 4.0 12.5 313 % Total revenue 57.7 30.7 27.0 88 % 145.2 83.9 61.3 73 % Expenses: Losses and loss adjustment expenses 36.5 23.9 12.6 53 % 150.9 75.6 75.3 100 % Insurance related expenses 20.3 15.6 4.7 30 % 54.8 46.2 8.6 19 % Technology and development 11.9 14.8 (2.9) (20) % 36.6 46.0 (9.4) (20) % Sales and marketing 18.9 29.4 (10.5) (36) % 63.9 73.7 (9.8) (13) % General and administrative 20.7 19.0 1.7 9 % 62.0 53.7 8.3 15 % Impairment and restructuring charges 55.3 (55.3) N/A 55.3 (55.3) N/A Interest and other (income) expense (0.1) 0.1 (100) % 0.5 (1.4) 1.9 (136) % Total expenses 108.3 157.9 (49.6) (31) % 368.7 349.1 19.6 6 % Loss before income taxes (50.6) (127.2) 76.6 (60) % (223.5) (265.2) 41.7 (16) % Income tax expense (0.3) 0.3 (0.6) (200) % 0.2 0.8 (0.6) (75) % Net loss (50.3) (127.5) 77.2 (61) % (223.7) (266.0) 42.3 (16) % Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of tax 2.8 1.7 1.1 65 % 7.1 4.3 2.8 65 % Net loss attributable to Hippo $ (53.1) $ (129.2) $ 76.1 (59) % (230.8) (270.3) $ 39.5 (15) % Other comprehensive income (loss): Change in net unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities, net of tax (0.7) (2.9) 2.2 (76) % (0.1) (7.1) 7.0 (99) % Comprehensive loss attributable to Hippo $ (53.8) $ (132.1) $ 78.3 (59) % (230.9) (277.4) $ 46.5 (17) % 48 Comparison of the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 Net Earned Premium For the three months ended September 30, 2023, net earned premium was $32.9 million, an increase of $22.2 million compared to $10.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. This increase was due primarily to increases in gross earned premium due to year-over-year growth of our total book of business and higher retention of earned premium due to our 2023 reinsurance treaty, partially offset by an increased cost of XOL premiums for our catastrophic coverage which results in an increase in ceded earned premium and lower net earned premium. We purchased XOL to cover events in excess of per occurrence limits based on the expected growth in exposure during the year. For the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, $14.3 million and $1.8 million, respectively, was offset against earned premium for XOL. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, net earned premium was $69.0 million, an increase of $38.1 million compared to $30.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. This increase was due primarily to increases in gross earned premium due to year-over-year growth of our total book of business and higher retention of earned premium due to our 2023 reinsurance treaty, partially offset by an increased cost of XOL premiums for our catastrophic coverage which results in an increase in ceded earned premium and lower net earned premium. We purchased XOL to cover events in excess of per occurrence limits based on the expected growth in exposure during the year. For the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, $39.9 million and $16.3 million, respectively, was offset against earned premium for XOL. The following table presents gross written premium, ceded written premium, net written premium, change in unearned premium, and net earned premium for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 (in millions). Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2023 2022 Change 2023 2022 Change Gross written premium $ 229.5 $ 173.3 $ 56.2 $ 663.6 $ 452.2 $ 211.4 Ceded written premium (178.0) (167.3) (10.7) (559.8) (430.9) (128.9) Net written premium 51.5 6.0 45.5 103.8 21.3 82.5 Change in unearned premium (18.6) 4.7 (23.3) (34.8) 9.6 (44.4) Net earned premium $ 32.9 $ 10.7 $ 22.2 $ 69.0 $ 30.9 $ 38.1 Commission Income, Net For the three months ended September 30, 2023, commission income was $14.2 million, a decrease of $0.1 million, or 1%, compared to $14.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in ceding commissions, including fronting fees, of $2.2 million, which was partially offset by an increase in agency commissions of $1.6 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, commission income was $47.8 million, an increase of $9.1 million, or 24%, compared to $38.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in agency commissions of $5.0 million, as well as an increase in ceding commissions, including fronting fees, of $3.3 million, both of which grew due to the year-over-year growth of our total book of business. Service and Fee Income For the three months ended September 30, 2023, service and fee income was $4.9 million, an increase of $1.7 million, or 53%, compared to $3.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in non-inspection policy fees and fee sharing arrangements. 49 For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, service and fee income was $11.9 million, an increase of $1.6 million, or 16%, compared to $10.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in non-inspection policy fees and fee sharing arrangements. Net Investment Income For the three months ended September 30, 2023, net investment income was $5.7 million, an increase of $3.2 million, compared to $2.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in yields and diversification. We are mainly invested in money market accounts, securities issued by the U.S. government and agencies, high-grade corporate securities, residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities, and other governmental related securities. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, net investment income was $16.5 million, an increase of $12.5 million, compared to $4.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in yields and diversification. We are mainly invested in money market accounts, securities issued by the U.S. government and agencies, high-grade corporate securities, residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities, and other governmental related securities. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2023, loss and loss adjustment expenses were $36.5 million, an increase of $12.6 million, compared to $23.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in losses due to the growth of our total book of business and higher premium retention rates. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, loss and loss adjustment expenses were $150.9 million, an increase of $75.3 million, compared to $75.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in PCS catastrophic weather and other weather loss experience and our loss participation features as well as an increase in our total book of business and higher premium retention rates. Insurance Related Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2023, insurance related expenses were $20.3 million, an increase of $4.7 million, or 30%, compared to $15.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs of $5.4 million due to the growth of our business. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, insurance related expenses were $54.8 million, an increase of $8.6 million, or 19%, compared to $46.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs of $6.6 million due to the 50 growth of our business and an increase in amortization expense attributable to capitalized internal use software of $3.1 million. The primary components of insurance related expenses are listed below (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2023 2022 2023 2022 Amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, net $ 7.3 $ 1.9 $ 20.2 13.6 Employee-related costs 3.0 3.4 9.4 9.3 Underwriting costs 2.5 1.9 6.5 6.0 Amortization of capitalized internal use software 3.4 2.4 9.4 6.3 Other 4.1 6.0 9.3 11.0 Total $ 20.3 $ 15.6 $ 54.8 $ 46.2 Direct acquisition costs were $24.3 million and $60.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, of which $17.0 million and $40.1 million were offset by ceding commission income. Direct acquisition costs were $11.0 million and $41.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, of which $9.1 million and $27.9 million were offset by ceding commission income. Technology and Development Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2023, technology and development expenses were $11.9 million, a decrease of $2.9 million, or 20%, compared to $14.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in stock-based compensation of $2.3 million, driven by performance RSUs related to an acquisition fully vesting in the prior year. The decrease was also due to an increase in capitalized internal use software costs of $1.1 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, technology and development expenses were $36.6 million, a decrease of $9.4 million, or 20%, compared to $46.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in stock-based compensation of $5.8 million, driven by performance RSUs related to an acquisition fully vesting in the prior year. The decrease was also due to a decrease in consultants costs of $2.1 million. Sales and Marketing Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2023, sales and marketing expenses were $18.9 million, a decrease of $10.5 million, or 36%, compared to $29.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in advertising costs of $8.2 million and a decrease in employee-related costs of $1.6 million, including a decrease stock-based compensation of $0.7 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, sales and marketing expenses were $63.9 million, a decrease of $9.8 million, or 13%, compared to $73.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in advertising costs of $9.3 million and a decrease in employee-related costs of $1.7 million. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in stock-based compensation of $1.9 million. General and Administrative Expenses For the three months ended September 30, 2023, general and administrative expenses were $20.7 million, an increase of $1.7 million, or 9%, compared to $19.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in legal and consulting fees of $1.3 million. 51 For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, general and administrative expenses were $62.0 million, an increase of $8.3 million, or 15%, compared to $53.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was due primarily to an increase in stock-based compensation of $5.5 million, partially driven by a charge due to the repricing of options during the first quarter of 2023. There was also an increase in legal costs of $2.5 million. Impairment and Restructuring Charges Impairment and restructuring charges were $55.3 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively. The charges consisted of $53.5 million related to the impairment of goodwill and $1.8 million related to severance and other personnel costs associated with a reduction in workforce. We review goodwill for impairment annually on October 1 and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist (a triggering event). During the three months ended September 30, 2022, management identified quantitative and qualitative factors that collectively indicated we had a triggering event, mainly due to the sustained decrease in stock price and continued deterioration of general macroeconomic conditions. Based on these events, we concluded that a triggering event occurred and performed an interim quantitative impairment test as of September 30, 2022. Based upon the results of the impairment test, we recognized the goodwill impairment charge. There were no impairment and restructuring expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 . Interest and Other (Income) Expense For the three months ended September 30, 2023, other expense was $0.0 million compared to income of $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, other expense was $0.5 million compared to income of $1.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease in other income was due primarily to changes in the fair market value on the outstanding public and private placement warrants of $2.6 million, partially offset by a decrease in other expenses of $0.8 million. Income Taxes For the three months ended September 30, 2023, income tax expense was $0.3 million, an increase of $0.6 million compared to an expense of $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, income tax expense was $0.2 million, a decrease of $0.6 million compared to an expense of $0.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. Net Loss Attributable to Hippo Net loss attributable to Hippois calculated in accordance with GAAP as total revenue less total expenses and taxes and net of net income attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax. For the three months ended September 30, 2023, net loss attributable to Hippo was $53.1 million, an increase of $76.1 million compared to $129.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 due to the factors described above. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, net loss attributable to Hippo was $230.8 million, an increase of $39.5 million compared to $270.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 due to the factors described above. 52 Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our existing sources of liquidity include cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. As of September 30, 2023, we had $269.4 million of cash and restricted cash and $330.0 million of available-for-sale fixed income securities and short-term investments. In addition, we are a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of New York, which provides secured borrowing capacity. Our borrowing capacity as of September 30, 2023, is $13.9 million, and there were no outstanding amounts under this agreement. To date, we have funded operations primarily with issuances of convertible preferred stock, convertible promissory notes, and from net proceeds from a private placement transaction in connection with the Business Combination, the Business Combination, and revenue. Until we can generate sufficient revenue and other income to cover operating expenses, working capital and capital expenditures, we expect the funds raised as discussed above to fund our cash needs. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including the volume of issuances of insurance policies, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, investments in information technology systems, and the expansion of sales and marketing activities. In the future, we may raise additional funds through the issuance of debt or equity securities or through borrowing. We cannot assure that such funds will be on favorable terms, or available at all. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in millions): Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (43.9) $ (131.4) $ 87.5 Investing activities $ 79.6 $ (290.7) $ 370.3 Financing activities $ (10.8) $ (3.7) $ (7.1) Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities represents payments for our operations including, payroll, loss and loss adjusted expenses and marketing activities. Cash used in operating activities was $43.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, a decrease of $87.5 million, from $131.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. Our cash used in operations was lower than last year mainly due to an increase in revenues as well as working capital changes that benefited cash, partially offset by an increase in our loss and loss adjustment expenses. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $79.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, due primarily to the maturities and sales of investment securities, partially offset by purchases of investment securities and an office building. Cash used in investing activities was $290.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, due primarily to purchases of investment securities partially offset by maturities and sales of investment securities. 53 Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $10.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, primarily driven by distributions to noncontrolling interests, repurchases of shares, taxes paid related to net share settlement of RSUs, and payments of contingent consideration, partially offset by proceeds from common stock issuances. Cash used in financing activities was $3.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, primarily driven by taxes paid related to net share settlement of RSUs and payments of contingent consideration, partially offset by proceeds from common stock issuances. Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations primarily relate to purchase commitments, lease payments, and unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense. There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, other than an increase in Unpaid Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense. The estimation of the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is based on various complex and subjective judgments. Actual losses paid may differ, perhaps significantly, from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Similarly, the timing of payment of our estimated losses is not fixed and there may be significant changes in actual payment activity. The assumptions used in estimating the likely payments due by period are based on our historical claims payment experience and industry payment patterns, but due to the inherent uncertainty in the process of estimating the timing of such payments, there is a risk that the amounts paid can be significantly different from the amounts disclosed. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our revenue, loss and loss adjustment expense reserve, recoverability of our net deferred tax asset, and intangible assets. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with managements expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates, or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. Recent Accounting Pronouncements The information set forth under Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements under the caption Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies is incorporated herein by reference. Emerging Growth Company Status We currently qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act. Accordingly, we are provided the option to adopt new or revised accounting guidance either (1) within the same periods as those otherwise applicable to non-emerging growth companies or (2) within the same time periods as private companies. We have elected to adopt new or revised accounting guidance within the same time period as private companies, unless management determines that it is preferable to take advantage of early adoption provisions offered within the applicable guidance. Our utilization of these transition periods may make it difficult to compare our financial statements to those of non-emerging growth companies and other emerging growth companies that have opted out of the transition periods afforded under the JOBS Act.