ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we, our, Hippo and the Company refer to the business and operations of Hippo Holdings Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview Hippo is an insurance holding company with subsidiaries that provide property and casualty insurance products to both individuals and business customers. We conduct our operations through three reportable segments: Services, Insurance-as-a-Service, and Hippo Home Insurance Program. We offer our services primarily in the United States. In the third quarter of 2023 we began taking several actions to lower the volatility of our Hippo Homeowners Insurance Program portfolio in light of the significant catastrophe losses we experienced in the second quarter, including raising rates on a portion of our renewal business, increasing deductibles for wind and hail perils, selectively non-renewing policies in certain regions, and instituting a nationwide pause on underwriting new premiums for our HO3 business as we examine our risk appetite. We also launched an expense reduction initiative across the Company, including a reduction in staff which we announced in October 2023. Further information on our business and reportable segments is presented in Part I, Item 1, Business and in Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Reinsurance We utilize reinsurance primarily to support the growth of our new and renewal insurance business, to reduce the volatility of our earnings, and to optimize our capital management. As an MGA, we underwrite homeowners insurance policies on behalf of our insurance company subsidiaries (Spinnaker and Spinnaker Specialty Insurance Company (SSIC)) and other non-affiliated third-party insurance carriers. These carriers purchase reinsurance from a variety of sources and in a variety of structures. In the basic form of this arrangement, fronting insurance carriers will typically cede a significant portion of the total insurance premium they earn from customers, in return for a proportional amount of reinsurance protection. This is known as ceding premium and losses through a quota share or proportional reinsurance treaty. The insurance carrier and the MGA are paid a percentage of the ceded premium as compensation for sales and marketing, underwriting, insurance, support, claims administration, and other related services (in totality, known as a ceding commission). As additional protection against natural catastrophes or other large loss events, the fronting carrier frequently purchases additional, non-proportional reinsurance. Without reinsurance protection, the insurer would shoulder all of the insurance risk itself and would need incremental capital to satisfy regulators and rating agencies requirements. Reinsurance allows a carrier to write more business while reducing its balance sheet exposure and volatility of earnings. Proportional Reinsurance Treaties Hippo Home Insurance Program For our Hippo primary homeowners reinsurance program for policies with effective dates in 2024, we elected not to purchase proportional reinsurance. Based on our growing confidence in the profitability and predictability of our underwriting results, we decided to retain more of the exposure and associated premium. For business produced through our builder channel for policies with effective dates in 2024, we purchased proportional reinsurance from one third-party reinsurer and expect to retain approximately 85% of the premium and associated risk, before purchasing catastrophe protection. All reinsurance obligations are appropriately 25 collateralized. The reinsurance contracts are subject to contingent commission adjustments and a loss occurrence limit, which aligns our interests with that of the reinsurer. Effective January 1, 2024, we also elected to cut off 25% of the reinsurers participation on the 2023 proportional reinsurance treaty and retain the remaining exposure and related premiums. In 2024, we continue to further protect our balance sheet through the purchase of non-proportional reinsurance described below in the section titled Non-Proportional Reinsurance. For our primary homeowners reinsurance program for policies with effective dates in 2023, we secured proportional reinsurance from a diverse panel of third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are either rated A- Excellent or better by AM Best, or the reinsurance is appropriately collateralized. In 2023, we retained approximately 40% of the premium through our insurance company subsidiaries or our captive reinsurance company, RHS, before purchasing catastrophe protection. Additionally, the reinsurance contracts are subject to contingent commission adjustments and loss participation features, which align our interests with those of our reinsurers. Loss participation features may increase the amount of losses retained by our insurance company subsidiaries in excess of our pro rata participation. For business produced through our builder channel for policies with effective dates in 2023, we purchased proportional reinsurance from three third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are rated A- Excellent or better by AM Best, or the reinsurance is appropriately collateralized. In 2023, we retained approximately 58% of the premium produced through our insurance company subsidiaries or RHS, before purchasing catastrophe protection. The reinsurance contracts are subject to contingent commission adjustments and limited loss participation features, which align our interests with those of the reinsurers. For our primary homeowners reinsurance program for policies with effective dates in 2022, we secured quota share reinsurance from a diverse panel of third-party reinsurers. All reinsurers are either rated A- Excellentor better by AM Best, or the reinsurance is collateralized. In 2022, we retained approximately 10% of the premium through our insurance company subsidiaries, including our captive reinsurance company, RHS. Additionally, the reinsurance contracts are subject to variable commission adjustments and loss participation features, including loss ratio caps and loss corridors, which align our interests with those of our reinsurers. Similar to the prior year, we saw increased use of loss participation features in the 2022 reinsurance agreements, which increased the amount of losses retained by our insurance company subsidiaries in excess of our pro rata participation in both the 2022 and 2023 fiscal periods. Non-Proportional Reinsurance Hippo Home Insurance Program We also purchased non-proportional excess of loss catastrophe coverage (XOL) reinsurance which includes traditional reinsurance protection, state subsidized reinsurance protection, catastrophe bonds, and industry loss warranty products. Through our insurance company subsidiaries, we are exposed to the risk of natural catastrophe events that could occur on the risks arising from policies underwritten by us or other MGAs. We are also exposed to this risk through our captive reinsurer, which takes on a share of the risk underwritten by our MGA business. In May 2023, we secured new catastrophe protection through a per occurrence XOL reinsurance agreement with Mountain Re Ltd. (Mountain Re), an independent Bermuda company, licensed as a Special Purpose Insurer.The reinsurance agreement meets the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with the guidance for reinsurance contracts. In connection with the reinsurance agreement, Mountain Re issued notes (generally referred to as catastrophe bonds) to investors, consistent with the amount of coverage provided under the reinsurance agreement. The reinsurance agreement provides us with coverage through June 2026, and pursuant to the agreement, Mountain Re provides XOL reinsurance coverage to us for losses from a variety of perils, including named storms, fire following an earthquake, severe thunderstorms, and winter storms on business produced through the Hippo MGA. Under the terms of the reinsurance agreement, we are obligated to pay annual reinsurance premiums to Mountain Re for the reinsurance coverage. Amounts payable under the reinsurance agreement with respect to any covered event cannot exceed our actual losses from such event. Our XOL program provides us protection from catastrophes that could impact a large number of insurance policies. We buy XOL so that the probability of losses from a single occurrence exceeding the protection purchased 26 is no more than 0.4%, or equivalent to a 1 in 250-year return period when considered with the corporate catastrophe and Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (the FHCF) XOL described below under Other Reinsurance. This reinsurance protects us from all but the most severe catastrophic events. Other Reinsurance Spinnaker also purchased reinsurance for programs written by MGAs other than Hippo through our Insurance-as-a-Service business. The reinsurance treaties are a mix of proportional and XOL in which generally 80% to 100% of the risk, up to the 1 in 250-year return period, is ceded. The reinsurance contracts are subject to variable commission adjustments and loss participation features, including loss caps, which may increase the amount of losses retained by us in excess of our pro-rata participation. Such provisions are recognized in the period based on the experience to date under the agreement. Spinnaker purchased a corporate catastrophe XOL program that attaches above the individual programmatic reinsurance programs protecting the property business written by Hippo as well as the other MGAs. This treaty has a floating retention and attaches at the exhaustion point of the underlying programs specific reinsurance. The catastrophe bond, and the FHCFs, described above, inures to the benefit of this contract. This program provides us protection from catastrophes that could impact a large number of correlated insurance policies underwritten by us and our other MGAs. We buy this XOL so that the probability of losses from a single occurrence across the property portfolio exceeding the protection purchased is no more than 0.4%, or equivalent to a 1 in 250 year-return period. This reinsurance protects us from all but the most severe catastrophic events. We purchased reinsurance from the State Board of Administration in Florida via the FHCF annually for admitted residential hurricane losses in the State of Florida. This coverage is provided and required by the State of Florida and protects business written by Hippo as well as other MGAs that produce admitted residential policies. We currently purchase reimbursement protection at the maximum level (90%) of mandatory coverage offered by the FHCF. Key Factors and Trends Affecting our Operating Results Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and will continue to be, affected by a number of factors, including the following: Our Ability to Attract New Customers Our long-term growth will depend, in large part, on our continued ability to attract new customers to our platform. For Hippo home insurance policies, we seek to minimize the volatility of our portfolio and are currently in the process of analyzing overall underwriting results for the segment, taking actions as needed. Our short-term focus is on attracting new customers to our licensed insurance agency to purchase non-Hippo policies and to our home care offerings, although over time we expect to strategically return to Hippo underwritten policies as our underwriting actions take hold. We intend to continue to drive new customer growth by highlighting our consumer-focused approach to home protection and insurance across multiple distribution channels, regardless of whether the customer is a Hippo policyholder. In particular, we seek to grow by: Promoting our agency for sales of non-Hippo policies, growing our network of partners within existing partner channels, and geographically optimizing our Hippo policyholder base; Developing new strategic partnerships with key players involved in the real estate transaction ecosystem; and Deepening our relationships with our customers by connecting them to partners offering value-added services that are not specifically insurance products, such as home maintenance, home monitoring, and energy consumption optimization. Our ability to attract new customers depends on the pricing of our products, the offerings of our competitors, our geographic reach, and the extent and effectiveness of our marketing efforts. Our ability to attract customers also depends on maintaining and strengthening our brand by providing superior customer experiences across all of our offerings through our proactive, tech-enabled strategy. 27 We face competition from traditional insurers who have more diverse product offerings and longer established operating histories, as well as from new, technology-driven entrants who may pursue more horizontal growth strategies. These competitors may mimic certain aspects of our digital platform and offerings and have more types of insurance products, allowing them to offer customers the ability to bundle multiple coverage types together, which may be attractive to many customers. Although the COVID-19 pandemic and the various responses to it created significant worldwide volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption over the past few years, recently there has been a return to more normal societal interactions, including in the way we operate our business. We cannot predict the future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic or any new public health events. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors for more information. Our Ability to Retain Customers Our ability to derive significant lifetime value from our customer relationships depends, in part, on our ability to retain our customers over time. Strong retention allows us to build a recurring revenue base, generating additional premium term over term without material incremental marketing costs. Our customers typically become more valuable to us over time because retention rates have historically increased with the age of customer cohorts and because non-catastrophic loss frequency declines as cohorts mature. As we expect to broadly retain our customers who are not located in high severe weather exposed regions, over the long-term, we expect our book of business to evolve to be weighted more towards renewals versus new business, as is the case with our more mature competitors. We expect that this would enable us to benefit from the higher premium retention rates and inherently lower frequency of losses that characterize renewed premiums. Our ability to retain customers will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our products, the offerings of our competitors, and our ability to continue delivering exceptional customer service and support. Our Ability to Manage Regulatory Impact, Including on Our Efforts to Manage Our Exposure to Volatility We are subject to extensive laws, regulations, administrative directives, and regulatory actions. From time to time, regulatory authorities or legislative bodies seek to influence and restrict premium rates, require premium refunds to policyholders, require reinstatement of terminated policies, restrict the ability of insurers to cancel or non-renew policies, require insurers to continue to write new policies or limit their ability to write new policies, limit insurers ability to change coverage terms and deductibles or to impose underwriting standards, impose additional regulations regarding agency and broker compensation, impose fines and penalties for unintended errors or mistakes, impose additional regulations regarding cybersecurity and privacy, and otherwise expand overall regulation of insurance products and the insurance industry. These laws may limit or restrict our ability to reduce our exposures, including to weather related losses. Our Ability to Expand Fee Income and Premium Through Cross-Sales to Existing Customers One of our strategies to increase the value we are providing to our customers is to offer incremental services to assist our customers in better maintaining and protecting their homes. As we roll out these services, we expect to be able to generate incremental, non-risk-based service and fee income from our existing customers. We expect these home protection services not only to generate incremental revenue, but also to reduce losses for our customers, andby implicationour loss ratios. Our success in expanding revenue and reducing losses by offering these services depends on our ability to market these services, our operational ability to deliver value to our customers, and the ability of these services to reduce the probability of loss for an average homeowner. We are also in the early stages of cross-selling non-homeowner insurance products across our customer base. Cross-sales allow us to generate additional premium per customer, and ultimately higher revenue and fee income, without material incremental marketing spend. Our success in expanding revenue through cross-sales depends on our marketing efforts with new products, offerings of our competitors, additional expansion into new states, and the pricing of our bundled products. Our Ability to Manage Risk We leverage data, technology, and geographic diversity to help manage risk. For instance, we obtain dynamic data from various sources and use advanced statistical methods to model that data into our pricing 28 algorithm. Incorporating these external data sources and utilizing the experience gained with our own customer base should lead to better underwriting, reduced loss frequency, andadjusting for weather related eventslower loss ratios over time. While our current reinsurance framework helps us manage the volatility of earnings, reducing our overall gross loss ratio is critical to our success. Our ability to incorporate new data sources as they become available and to use them to improve our ability to accurately and competitively price risk is central to our growth strategy. Seasonality of Claims Losses Seasonal patterns can impact our incurrence of claims losses,as seasonal weather patterns impact the level and amount of claims we receive. These patterns include hurricanes, wildfires, and coastal storms in the fall, cold weather patterns and changing home heating needs in the winter, and tornados and hailstorms in the spring and summer. The mix of geographic exposure and products within our customer base impacts our exposure to these weather patterns, and as we diversify our base of premium such that our exposure more closely resembles the industry exposure, we should see the impact of these events on our business more closely resemble the impact on the broader industry. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Gross Written Premium Gross written premium is the amount received or to be received for insurance policies written or assumed by us and our affiliates as a carrier or captive reinsurer, without reduction for policy acquisition costs, reinsurance costs, or other deductions. The volume of our gross written premium in any given period is generally influenced by: New business submissions; Binding of new business submissions into policies; Bound policies going effective; Renewals of existing policies; and Average size and premium rate of bound policies. Ceded Written Premium Ceded written premium is the amount of gross written premium written or assumed by us and our affiliates as a carrier that we cede to reinsurers. We enter into reinsurance contracts to limit our exposure to losses, as well as to provide additional capacity for growth. Ceded written premium is treated as a reduction from gross written premium. The volume of our ceded written premium is impacted by the level of our gross written premium and decisions we make to increase or decrease retention levels. Net Earned Premium Net earned premium represents the earned portion of our gross written premium for insurance policies written or assumed by us and less the earned portion of ceded written premium (any portion of our gross written premium that is ceded to third-party reinsurers under our reinsurance agreements). We earn written premiums on a pro-rata basis over the term of the policies. Commission Income, Net Includes: a.MGA Commission: We operate as an MGA for multiple insurers. We design and underwrite insurance products on behalf of the insurers culminating in the sale of insurance policies. We earn recurring commission and policy fees associated with the policies we sell. We have underwriting authority and responsibility for administering claims (see Claim Processing Fees below) and we work with affiliated and unaffiliated carrier platforms who pay us a commission in exchange for the opportunity to take that risk on their balance sheets. Our performance obligation associated with these contracts is the placement of the policy, which is met on the effective date. Upon issuance of a new policy, we charge policy fees and inspection fees (see Service and Fee Income below), retain our share of commission, and remit the balance 29 to the respective insurers. Subsequent commission adjustments arising from policy changes such as endorsements are recognized in the period when the adjustments occur. Cash received in advance of policy effective dates is recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheets, representing our portion of commission and premium due to insurers and reinsurers, and held in trust for the benefit of the insurers and reinsurers as fiduciary liabilities. The MGA commission is subject to adjustments, higher or lower (commonly referred to as commission slide), depending on the underwriting performance of the policies placed by us. We are required to return a portion of our MGA commission due to commission slide on the policies placed as an MGA if the underwriting performance varies due to higher Hippo programs loss ratio from provisional performance of the Hippo programs loss ratio. We also return a portion of our MGA commission if the policies are cancelled before the term of the policy. Accordingly, we reserve for commission slide using estimated Hippo programs loss ratio performance, or a cancellation reserve as a reduction of revenue for each period presented in our statement of operations and comprehensive loss. b.Agency Commission: We also operate licensed insurance agencies that are engaged solely in the sale of policies, including non-Hippo policies. For these policies, we earn a recurring agency commission from the carriers whose policies we sell, which is recorded in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Similar to the MGA businesses, the performance obligation from the agency contracts is placement of the insurance policies. For both MGA and insurance agency activities, we recognize commission received from insurers for the sale of insurance contracts as revenue at a point in time on the policy effective dates. c.Ceding Commission: We receive commission based on the premium we cede to third-party reinsurers for the reimbursement for our acquisition and underwriting services. Excess ceding commission over the cost of acquisition is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. For the policies that we write on our own carrier as MGA, we recognize this commission as ceding commission on the statement of operations and comprehensive loss. We earn commission on reinsurance premium ceded in a manner consistent with the recognition of the earned premium on the underlying insurance policies, on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies reinsured. We record the portion of ceding commission income, which represents reimbursement of successful direct acquisition costs related to the underlying policies, as an offset to the applicable direct acquisition costs. d.Carrier Fronting Fees: Through our Insurance-as-a-Service business, we earn fronting fees from the MGA programs we support. We earn fronting fees in a manner consistent with the recognition of the earned premium on the underlying insurance policies, on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. This revenue is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. e.Claim Processing Fees: As an MGA, we receive a fee that is calculated as a percent of the premium from the insurers in exchange for providing claims adjudication services. The claims adjudication services are provided over the term of the policy and recognized ratably over the same period. This revenue is included in the commission income, net line on our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Service and Fee Income Service and fee income mainly represents policy fees and other revenue. We directly bill policyholders for policy fees and collect and retain fees per the terms of the contracts between us and our insurers. Similar to the commission revenue, we estimate a cancellation reserve for policy fees using historical information. The performance obligation associated with these fees is satisfied at a point in time upon completion of the underwriting process, which is the policy effective date. Accordingly, we recognize all fees as revenue on the policy effective date. Net Investment Income Net investment income represents interest earned from fixed maturity securities, short-term investments and other investments, and the gains or losses from the sale of investments. Our cash and invested assets primarily consist of fixed-maturity securities, and may also include cash and cash equivalents, equity securities, and short-term 30 investments. The principal factors that influence net investment income are the size of our investment portfolio and the yield on that portfolio. As measured by amortized cost (which excludes changes in fair value, such as changes in interest rates), the size of our investment portfolio is mainly a function of our invested equity capital along with premium we receive from our customers less payments on customer claims. Net investment income also includes an insignificant amount of net realized gains (losses) on investments, which are a function of the difference between the amount received by us on the sale of a security and the securitys amortized cost, as well as any allowances for credit losses recognized in earnings, if any. Expenses Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses Loss and loss adjustment expenses represent the costs incurred for losses net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. We enter into reinsurance contracts to limit our exposure to potential losses as well as to provide additional capacity for growth. The expenses are a function of the size and term of the insurance policies and the loss experience and loss participation features associated with the underlying risks. Loss and LAE are based on actuarial assumptions and management judgements, including losses incurred during the period and changes in estimates from prior periods. Loss and LAE also include employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) of our claims processing teams, as well as allocated occupancy costs and related overhead based on headcount. Insurance-Related Expenses Insurance related expenses primarily consist of amortization of direct acquisition commission costs and premium taxes incurred on the successful acquisition of business written on a direct basis and credit card processing fees not charged to our customers. Insurance related expenses also include employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) of our underwriting teams, amortization of capitalized internal use software, as well as allocated occupancy costs and related overhead based on headcount. Insurance related expenses are offset by a portion of ceding commission income, which represents reimbursement of successful acquisition costs related to the underlying policies. Additionally, insurance related expenses include the costs of providing bound policies and delivering claims services to our customers. These costs include underwriting technology service costs including software, data services used for performing underwriting, and third-party call center costs in addition to personnel-related costs. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for our technology staff, which includes technology development, infrastructure support, actuarial, and third-party services. Technology and development also include allocated facility costs and related overhead based on headcount. We expense development costs as incurred, except for costs related to internal use software development projects, which are capitalized and subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the developed software. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of sales commission, advertising costs, and marketing expenditures, as well as employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for employees engaged in sales, marketing, data analytics, and customer acquisition. Sales and marketing expenses also include allocated facility costs and related overhead based on headcount. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation and benefits) for our finance, human resources, legal, and general management functions, as well as facilities, insurance, and professional services. Impairment and Restructuring Charges Impairment and restructuring charges consist of non-cash impairment charges relating to goodwill. We review goodwill for impairment annually on October 1 and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 31 indicate that an impairment may exist. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the fair value of the reporting units goodwill is calculated and an impairment loss equal to the excess is recorded. It also consists of severance and other personnel costs associated with exit and disposal activities as well as reductions in workforce. Other (Income) Expense Other (income) expense primarily consists of certain fair value adjustments and other non-operating income expenses. Income Taxes We record income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we record deferred income tax assets and liabilities based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between the financial statement and income tax basis of existing assets and liabilities. We measure these differences using the enacted statutory tax rates that are expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which differences are expected to reverse. We recognize the effect on deferred income taxes of a change in tax rates in income in the period that includes the enactment date. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets and liabilities to the net amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations, and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Key Operating and Financial Metrics and Non-GAAP Measures We regularly review the following key operating and financial metrics in order to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends in our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. The non-GAAP financial measures below have not been calculated in accordance with GAAP, should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. In addition, adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an indicator of our operating performance, liquidity, or cash flows generated by operating, investing, and financing activities, as there may be significant factors or trends that it fails to address. We caution investors that non-GAAP financial informationby its naturedeparts from traditional accounting conventions. Therefore, its use can make it difficult to compare our current results with our results from other reporting periods and with the results of other companies. Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures, in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as an integral part of managing our business and to, among other things: (i) monitor and evaluate the performance of our business operations and financial performance; (ii) facilitate internal comparisons of the historical operating performance of our business operations; (iii) review and assess the operating performance of our management team; (iv) analyze and evaluate financial and strategic planning decisions regarding future operating investments; and (v) plan for and prepare future annual operating budgets and determine appropriate levels of operating investments. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 ($ in millions) Total Generated Premium $ 293.5 $ 244.9 Total Revenue 85.1 39.8 Net Loss attributable to Hippo (35.7) (69.8) Adjusted EBITDA (19.8) (52.1) Gross Loss Ratio 59 % 76 % Net Loss Ratio 87 % 273 % 32 Total Generated Premium We define Total Generated Premium as the aggregate written premium placed across all of our business platforms for the period presented. We measure Total Generated Premium as it reflects the volume of our business irrespective of choices related to how we structure our reinsurance treaties, the amount of risk we retain on our own balance sheet, or the amount of business written in our capacity as an MGA, agency, or as an insurance carrier/reinsurer. We calculate Total Generated Premium as the sum of: i)Gross written premium (GWP)a GAAP measure defined above; and ii)Gross placed premiumpremium of policies placed with third-party insurance companies, for which we do not retain insurance risk and for which we earn a commission payment, and policy fees charged by us to the policyholders on the effective date of the policy. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change ($ in millions) Gross Written Premium $ 194.7 $ 189.5 $ 5.2 Gross Placed Premium 98.8 55.4 $ 43.4 Total Generated Premium $ 293.5 $ 244.9 $ 48.6 Our Total Generated Premium for the three months ended March 31, 2024 grew 20% year-over-year to $293.5 million from $244.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The growth was driven primarily by the growth of non-Hippo written premium supported by our Insurance-as-a-Service business, the growth in the total book of business in our aggregator channel, as well as in our builder channel for new and renewal business, as we maintain higher retention rates and experienced premium rate increases. This was partially offset by a decrease in our Hippo Home Insurance Program (HHIP) as we have taken actions to reduce our exposure to wind and hail while achieving planned premium rate increases. Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (adjusted EBITDA), a Non-GAAP financial measure, as net loss attributable to Hippo excluding interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, net investment income, restructuring charges, impairment expense, other non-cash fair market value adjustments including contingent consideration for one of our acquisitions, and other transactions, which may include certain legal fees and settlement costs, that we consider to be unique in nature. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, adjusted EBITDA loss was $19.8 million, a decrease of $32.3 million compared to a $52.1 million EBITDA loss for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was due primarily to a growth in revenue reflecting an increase in premiums earned mainly due to higher premium retention as a result of the 2023 and 2024 reinsurance treaty compared to prior periods, a lower HHIP gross loss ratio, and a decrease in other operating expenses. These improvements in EBITDA were partially offset by an increase in losses due to higher premium retention as noted above and overall growth of our book of business. For 33 the three months ended March 31, 2024, our net loss ratio was 87% compared to 273% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The following table provides a reconciliation from net loss attributable to Hippo to adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net loss attributable to Hippo $ (35.7) $ (69.8) Adjustments: Net investment income (5.9) (5.4) Depreciation and amortization 5.6 4.3 Stock-based compensation 8.4 16.1 Fair value adjustments 1.5 1.0 Other one-off transactions 2.5 1.4 Income tax expense 0.2 0.3 Impairment and restructuring charges 3.6 Adjusted EBITDA $ (19.8) $ (52.1) Gross Loss Ratio Gross Loss Ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the Gross Losses and LAE to the Gross Earned Premium (in millions). Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Gross Losses and LAE $ 121.1 $ 126.3 Gross Earned Premium 206.7 165.1 Gross Loss Ratio 59 % 76 % The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross Loss Ratio by named event Property Claims Services (PCS) and non-PCS events. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 PCS losses 10 % 25 % Non-PCS losses 49 % 51 % Gross loss ratio 59 % 76 % For the three months ended March 31, 2024, our Gross Loss Ratio was 59% compared with 76% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease reflected the benefits of the pricing and underwriting actions we have taken. We expect continued improvement as these actions have more time to impact our financial results. There was no material PCS or non-PCS prior year developments in the current quarter. The prior year quarter includes 1 percentage point of net favorable development relating to PCS events. 34 Net Loss Ratio Net loss ratio expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the net losses and LAE to the net earned premium (in millions). Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net Losses and LAE $ 52.6 $ 37.7 Net Earned Premium 60.5 13.8 Net Loss Ratio 87 % 273 % For the three months ended March 31, 2024, our net loss ratio was 87% compared with 273% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease from prior year was due primarily to the positive impact of our underwriting and pricing actions on our Non-PCS losses, the increase in our net earned premium as a result of higher premium retention on our 2023 and 2024 reinsurance treaties, a decrease in PCS catastrophic weather and other weather loss experience and our loss participation features, and the growth of our book of business. There was no material PCS or non-PCS prior year developments in the current quarter. The prior year quarter includes 3 percentage points of net adverse developments for non-PCS events and 1 percentage point net favorable developments for PCS events. Segment Information Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 ($ in millions) Services Insurance-as-a-Service Hippo Home Insurance Program Intersegment Eliminations(1) Total Total Generated Premium $ 133.7 $ 130.0 $ 65.5 $ (35.7) $ 293.5 Total Revenue 11.4 20.4 55.1 (1.8) 85.1 Adjusted operating income (loss) (5.3) 4.7 (20.2) 1.0 (19.8) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 ($ in millions) Services Insurance-as-a-Service Hippo Home Insurance Program Intersegment Eliminations(1) Total Total Generated Premium $ 97.9 $ 104.0 $ 92.2 $ (49.2) $ 244.9 Total Revenue 9.8 12.9 19.3 (2.2) 39.8 Adjusted operating income (loss) (10.8) 3.2 (44.3) (0.2) (52.1) (1)Intersegment eliminations include commissions paid from Hippo Home Insurance Program for policies sold by the Companys Services segment (revenue, cost, and other adjustments in respective business units eliminated as part of consolidation). Intersegment eliminations also include premiums written between the segments. Segment adjusted operating income (loss) is our primary segment profitability measure, and is calculated as segment revenue less operating expenses that are directly attributable to the segments. Refer to Note 16 of the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information on segments and a reconciliation of Segment adjusted operating income (loss) to net loss attributable to Hippo. 35 Services For the three months ended March 31, 2024, our Services segment, which earns fees and/or commission income without assuming underwriting risk or need for reinsurance, had Total Generated Premium of $133.7 million, an increase of 37% from $97.9 million over the prior year quarter, while revenue was $11.4 million, an increase of 16% from $9.8 million over the prior year quarter. The growth was driven primarily due to the growth in the total book of business in our aggregator channel, as well as in our builder channel for new and renewal business, as we maintain higher retention rates and experienced premium rate increases. Our adjusted operating loss was $5.3 million, a decrease of 51% compared to a loss of $10.8 million in the prior year quarter, due primarily to the increase in revenue noted above and a decrease in advertising costs. Insurance-as-a-Service Our Insurance-as-a-Service segment, which through our carrier, Spinnaker, leverages our capital and insurance licenses to provide capacity to third party MGAs, creating diversified income through fees, underwriting profits, and investment income. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, Total Generated Premium was $130.0 million, an increase of 25% from $104.0 million over the prior year quarter, while revenue was $20.4 million, an increase of 58% from $12.9 million over the prior year quarter. The growth was driven primarily by the increase in performance of existing programs. Adjusted operating income was $4.7 million, an increase of 47% compared to income of $3.2 million in the prior year quarter, due primarily to the increase in revenue mentioned above, partially offset by an increase in insurance related expenses and loss and loss adjustment expenses due to the growth of the book of business. Hippo Home Insurance Program For the three months ended March 31, 2024, our Hippo Homeowners Insurance Program had Total Generated Premium of $65.5 million, a decrease of 29% from $92.2 million over the prior year quarter, while revenue was $55.1 million, an increase of 185% from $19.3 million over the prior year quarter. The increase in revenue was due primarily to higher net earned premium, partially offset by a decrease in commission income, net, reflecting changes in our 2023 and 2024 reinsurance treaties, resulting in higher premium retention, and achieving planned premium rate increases. The increase in revenue from net earned premiums was partially offset by the cost of XOL premiums for our catastrophic coverage which results in an increase in ceded earned premium and lower net earned premium. We purchased XOL to cover events in excess of per occurrence limits based on the expected growth in exposure during the year. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, $7.1 million and $7.4 million, respectively, was offset against earned premium for XOL. Adjusted operating loss was $20.2 million in the quarter, a decrease of 54% compared to a loss of $44.3 million in the prior year quarter. The decrease in adjusted operating loss was due primarily to the increase in revenue noted above, a decrease in PCS catastrophic weather and other weather loss experience and our loss participation features, which was partially offset by an increase in losses due to the higher premium retention as noted above. Based in part on the second quarter of FY 2023 impact of PCS cat losses of $109.9 million on a gross basis and $50.9 million on a net basis, we began taking actions to reduce our future exposure to wind and hail, with the goal of reducing the volatility of our financial results. Our aim is to materially reduce our exposure to the hail and storm risks which have caused a disproportionate portion of our losses to date. We have temporarily put on hold the underwriting of new premiums nationwide for our HO3 product as we re-examine our risk appetite in light of observed changes in weather and climate activity. For renewals, we are implementing actions that include increasing deductibles for wind and hail perils, selectively non-renewing policies in high-risk regions, and increasing the rates we charge for cat-exposed properties across our portfolio. We expect these actions will result in Total Generated Premium declines in 2024. In addition, we have taken steps to reduce our Hippo Home Insurance Programs dependence on the reinsurance market and the costs associated with not retaining the risk we underwrite on our own balance sheet, including the catastrophe bonds noted in our reinsurance disclosures above. 36 Hippo Home Insurance Program Gross Loss Ratio Hippo Home Insurance Program Gross Loss Ratio (HPGLR) is a key performance indicator that represents our underwriting operational performance for the entire Total Generated Premium underwritten by Hippo as part of the Hippo Home Insurance Program. This ratio includes losses and premiums written and placed on Spinnaker (our carrier) as well as other carriers for Hippo policies (policies underwritten by the Hippo MGA). For the periods presented, changes in this ratio also impact our ceding commission revenue and loss participation features in our reinsurance treaties, which is included in loss and loss adjustment expense on our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. This ratio is also used by our reinsurers and other carriers to make business decisions relating to the capacity of reinsurance and amount of ceding commission that would be available to Hippo. The lower the ratio, the better the economics for Hippo. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Hippo Home Insurance Program Non-PCS 59 % 60 % PCS 21 % 41 % HPGLR 80 % 101 % For the three months ended March 31, 2024 HPGLR was 80% compared to 101% in the prior year. The decrease for the three-month period reflected the benefits of the pricing and underwriting actions we have taken, as well as a lower number of catastrophes in the first quarter of the current year compared to the prior year. 37 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations data for the periods presented (in millions, except percent data): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change % Change Revenue: Net earned premium $ 60.5 $ 13.8 $ 46.7 338 % Commission income, net 15.9 17.4 (1.5) (9) % Service and fee income 2.8 3.2 (0.4) (13) % Net investment income 5.9 5.4 0.5 9 % Total revenue 85.1 39.8 45.3 114 % Expenses: Losses and loss adjustment expenses 52.6 37.7 14.9 40 % Insurance related expenses 20.8 15.8 5.0 32 % Technology and development 8.3 11.6 (3.3) (28) % Sales and marketing 14.4 22.4 (8.0) (36) % General and administrative 18.3 19.8 (1.5) (8) % Impairment and restructuring charges 3.6 3.6 N/A Other income, net 0.3 (0.3) (100) % Total expenses 118.0 107.6 10.4 10 % Loss before income taxes (32.9) (67.8) 34.9 (51) % Income tax expense 0.2 0.3 (0.1) (33) % Net loss (33.1) (68.1) 35.0 (51) % Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of tax 2.6 1.7 0.9 53 % Net loss attributable to Hippo $ (35.7) $ (69.8) $ 34.1 (49) % Other comprehensive income (loss): Change in net unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities, net of tax (0.5) 1.7 (2.2) (129) % Comprehensive loss attributable to Hippo $ (36.2) $ (68.1) $ 31.9 (47) % 38 Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Net Earned Premium For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net earned premium was $60.5 million, an increase of $46.7 million compared to $13.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase was due primarily to increases in gross earned premium due to year-over-year growth of our total book of business and higher retention of earned premium due to our 2023 and 2024 reinsurance treaties, partially offset by an increased cost of XOL premiums for our catastrophic coverage which results in an increase in ceded earned premium and lower net earned premium. We purchased XOL to cover events in excess of per occurrence limits based on the expected growth in exposure during the year. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, $13.5 million and $11.7 million, respectively, was offset against earned premium for XOL. The following table presents gross written premium, ceded written premium, net written premium, change in unearned premium, and net earned premium for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 (in millions). Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change Gross written premium $ 194.7 $ 189.5 $ 5.2 Ceded written premium (85.9) (168.2) 82.3 Net written premium 108.8 21.3 87.5 Change in unearned premium (48.3) (7.5) (40.8) Net earned premium $ 60.5 $ 13.8 $ 46.7 Commission Income, Net For the three months ended March 31, 2024, commission income was $15.9 million, a decrease of $1.5 million, or 9%, compared to $17.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in ceding commissions of $6.6 million due to higher premium retention, which decreases ceding commissions and increases net earned premium. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in agency commissions of $3.5 million and carrier fronting fees of $1.7 million, both of which grew due to the year-over-year growth of our total book of business. Service and Fee Income For the three months ended March 31, 2024, service and fee income was $2.8 million, a decrease of $0.4 million, or 13%, compared to $3.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in non-inspection policy fees and fee sharing arrangements. Net Investment Income For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net investment income was $5.9 million, an increase of $0.5 million, compared to $5.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was due primarily to an increase in yields and diversification. We are mainly invested in money market accounts, securities issued by the U.S. government and agencies, high-grade corporate securities, residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities, and other governmental related securities. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2024, loss and loss adjustment expenses were $52.6 million, an increase of $14.9 million, compared to $37.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was due primarily to an increase in losses due to higher premium retention rates and the growth of our book of business. 39 This was partially offset by an improvement in our net loss ratio due to improved terms on our reinsurance treaties, and a lower number of catastrophes in the first quarter of the current year compared to the prior year. Insurance Related Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2024, insurance related expenses were $20.8 million, an increase of $5.0 million, or 32%, compared to $15.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was due primarily to an increase in amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs of $5.5 million due to higher premium retention rates and the growth of our book of business. The primary components of insurance related expenses are listed below (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, net $ 11.5 $ 6.0 Employee-related costs 2.2 3.0 Underwriting costs 1.4 1.8 Amortization of capitalized internal use software 3.9 2.9 Other 1.8 2.1 Total $ 20.8 $ 15.8 Direct acquisition costs were $24.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, of which $12.7 million were offset by ceding commission income. Direct acquisition costs were $16.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, of which $10.3 million were offset by ceding commission income. Technology and Development Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2024, technology and development expenses were $8.3 million, a decrease of $3.3 million, or 28%, compared to $11.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in employee-related costs of $3.4 million, including a decrease in stock-based compensation of $1.7 million, driven by a decrease in headcount. The decrease was partially offset by a decrease in capitalized internal use software costs of $1.0 million. Sales and Marketing Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2024, sales and marketing expenses were $14.4 million, a decrease of $8.0 million, or 36%, compared to $22.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in advertising costs of $3.0 million and a decrease in employee-related costs of $3.8 million, including a decrease stock-based compensation of $2.4 million due to a decrease in headcount. General and Administrative Expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2024, general and administrative expenses were $18.3 million, a decrease of $1.5 million, or 8%, compared to $19.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in stock-based compensation of $2.5 million which was partially offset by an increase in legal costs of $1.1 million. Impairment and Restructuring Charges For the three months ended March 31, 2024, impairment and restructuring charges were $3.6 million which is primarily related to the impairment of a lease right-of-use asset due to abandonment of leased office space. 40 Other (Income) Expense For the three months ended March 31, 2024, other income, net was $0.0 million compared to an expense of $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease in other income, net was due primarily to changes in the fair market value on the outstanding public and private placement warrants and our share of losses from equity method investees. Income Taxes For the three months ended March 31, 2024, income tax expense was $0.2 million, an increase of $0.1 million compared to an expense of $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Net Loss Attributable to Hippo Net loss attributable to Hippois calculated in accordance with GAAP as total revenue less total expenses and taxes and net of net income attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net loss attributable to Hippo was $35.7 million, a decrease of $34.1 million compared to $69.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 due to the factors described above. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our existing sources of liquidity include cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. As of March 31, 2024, we had $223.4 million of cash, $39.9 million of restricted cash, and $287.4 million of available-for-sale fixed income securities and short-term investments. In addition, we are a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of New York, which provides secured borrowing capacity. Our borrowing capacity as of March 31, 2024, is $11.9 million, and there were no outstanding amounts under this agreement. To date, we have funded operations primarily with issuances of convertible preferred stock, convertible promissory notes, and from net proceeds from a private placement transaction in connection with the Business Combination, the Business Combination, and revenue. Until we can generate sufficient revenue and other income to cover operating expenses, working capital and capital expenditures, we expect the funds raised as discussed above to fund our cash needs. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including the volume of issuances of insurance policies, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, investments in information technology systems, and the expansion of sales and marketing activities. In the future, we may raise additional funds through the issuance of debt or equity securities or through borrowing. We cannot assure that such funds will be on favorable terms, or available at all. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 17.7 $ (35.7) $ 53.4 Investing activities $ 58.5 $ 13.8 $ 44.7 Financing activities $ (8.0) $ (1.9) $ (6.1) 41 Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities represents payments for our operations including, payroll, loss and loss adjusted expenses and marketing activities. Cash provided by operating activities was $17.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of $53.4 million, from cash used in operating activities of $35.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Our cash used in operations was lower than last year due primarily to an increase in revenues as well as working capital changes that benefited cash, including a decrease in prepaid reinsurance premiums due to higher premium retention. This was partially offset by an increase in our loss and loss adjustment expenses. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $58.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, due primarily to the maturities of investment securities, partially offset by purchases of investment securities. Cash provided by investing activities was $13.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, due primarily to purchases of investment securities partially offset by maturities and sales of investment securities. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $8.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily driven by distributions to noncontrolling interests and taxes paid related to net share settlement of RSUs, partially offset by proceeds from common stock issuances. Cash used in financing activities was $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily driven by taxes paid related to net share settlement of RSUs and distributions to noncontrolling interests. Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations primarily relate to purchase commitments, lease payments, and unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense. There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, other than an increase in Unpaid Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense. The estimation of the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is based on various complex and subjective judgments. Actual losses paid may differ, perhaps significantly, from the reserve estimates reflected in our condensed consolidated financial statements. Similarly, the timing of payment of our estimated losses is not fixed and there may be significant changes in actual payment activity. The assumptions used in estimating the likely payments due by period are based on our historical claims payment experience and industry payment patterns, but due to the inherent uncertainty in the process of estimating the timing of such payments, there is a risk that the amounts paid can be significantly different from the amounts disclosed. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our revenue, loss and loss adjustment expense reserve, recoverability of our net deferred tax asset, and intangible assets. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with managements expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates, or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. 42 Recent Accounting Pronouncements The information set forth under Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements under the caption Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies is incorporated herein by reference. Emerging Growth Company Status We currently qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act. Accordingly, we are provided the option to adopt new or revised accounting guidance either (1) within the same periods as those otherwise applicable to non-emerging growth companies or (2) within the same time periods as private companies. We have elected to adopt new or revised accounting guidance within the same time period as private companies, unless management determines that it is preferable to take advantage of early adoption provisions offered within the applicable guidance. Our utilization of these transition periods may make it difficult to compare our financial statements to those of non-emerging growth companies and other emerging growth companies that have opted out of the transition periods afforded under the JOBS Act.