Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words believe, will, may, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, expect, predict, could, potentially and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to predict our revenue, operating results and gross margin accurately; the transition of newly hired management-level employees and their ability to improve our execution processes; our ability to maintain revenue growth and achieve and maintain profitability; our ability to manage expenses such as R&D and infrastructure; our ability to timely develop, deliver and transition to new product offerings while maintaining our service level commitments to end-customers; our ability to timely adapt to the changes and development of markets and industries; any potential loss of or reductions in orders from our larger customers; our ability to achieve growth in key verticals, including the educational sector; our ability to maximize the economic opportunity of the U.S. Federal Communications Commissions, or FCC, E-Rate program and the timing of the availability of funding and decisions by end-customers to purchase our products using such funding; the length and unpredictability of our sales cycles with end-customers; the effects of increased competition in and consolidation of our market and our ability to compete with larger competitors with greater financial, technical and other resources; our ability to continue to enhance and broaden our product offering and bring new products to market; Our ability to develop new Software-as-a-Service, or SaaS, capabilities and offerings, including data analytics and API platforms, as well as associated business, operation and sales resources and capabilities, while not disrupting our existing revenue and customer base; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand; our ability to attract new end-customers within the verticals and geographies we currently operate in and those that we target; our ability to predict economic, political and business conditions in the markets in which we operate; our ability to maintain effective internal controls; the quality of our products and services; our ability to continue to build and enhance relationships with channel partners and particularly with our strategic partners, including Dell; our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified employees and key personnel, particularly in sales and engineering; our ability to effectively execute our sales process to ramp up sales in underdeveloped territories and maximize our inventory management capabilities; our ability to sell our products and effectively expand internationally; our ability to develop, maintain and enforce data security, access and use policies, including with respect to our cloud-managed services platform and infrastructure, and in particular in conjunction with our data analytics services and applications and the collection, storage and use of associated customer or end user data; claims from shareholders that we have violated the securities laws and claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others, the expense to defend such claims and the uncertainty such claims create for us, including with respect to intellectual property claims, our ability to continue to sell and support our products; our ability to effectively manage our growth; the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates, in particular the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain currencies; our ability to comply with domestic and international regulations in areas such as export controls, tax, employment, privacy and data security; our ability to protect our intellectual property and exposure to third party claims that we or our customers or channel partners infringe their intellectual property; and other risk factors included under the section titled Risk Factors. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this report and current expectations, forecasts and assumptions are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report and, in particular, the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date, and we are under no obligation to, and expressly disclaim any responsibility to, update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Aerohive Networks, Inc. and together with its subsidiaries (Aerohive Networks, Aerohive, Company, we, us, and our) has designed and developed a leading cloud networking and enterprise Wi-Fi solution that enables our customers to use the power of Wi-Fi, cloud, analytics and applications to transform how they serve their customers. Our products include Wi-Fi access points, routers and switches required to build an edge-access network; a cloud services platform for centralized management, data collection and analytics; and applications that leverage the network to provide additional capabilities to the business and IT organization. Together, these products, service platforms and applications create a simple, scalable, and secure solution to deliver a better connected experience. Customers around the world, from Fortune 500 businesses to small schools, have chosen our products. Technologies and Solutions Our portfolio of products and solutions is built around three primary sets of technologies and capabilities: Enterprise Cloud Networking. Using cloud technologies, as a public or private cloud, to manage the network and reduce the complexity of supporting large numbers of devices. Wi-Fi Connectivity. Wi-Fi access points and supporting wired devices built around a unique distributed architecture that delivers simplicity, speed, security, and scale. Application and Insights. Customized business & IT applications that use data collected from the network to unlock new information, insights, and engagement. We believe that each of these areas adds valuable customer capabilities, differentiates our offering, and showcases our continuing innovation. Enterprise Cloud Networking . Our customers today are increasingly demanding simplicity in how they manage and operate their Wi-Fi network. Cloud networking enables us to deliver this. Our cloud networking capabilities, including our HiveManager network management application, combine the benefits of the cloud with the feature depth required for managing enterprise-class networks. We believe we are the only major vendor who can provide these enterprise class capabilities in both a public cloud and a private cloud deployment. We have chosen to focus on enterprise cloud networking based on the compelling benefits we believe we can offer our customers. Legacy approaches to network management have relied on complex enterprise applications that customers must install, integrate, maintain, and administer themselves. New releases were infrequent, updates installed by customers even less frequent. In contrast, cloud-based network management provides a single integrated management view across the entire network that can be accessed from virtually anywhere. The network management application is maintained and administered in the cloud and, accessed as a subscription service that can be regularly updated in response to new features or urgent changes. Our approach to cloud networking and our HiveManager application deliver a number of important capabilities to our customers. While enterprise customers want simplified network management they still need a full set of features and capabilities. Our progressive disclosure user interface means that advanced features are available but are hidden from view when then are not being used. Similarly, organizations that need to deploy the network often do not have technical staff at every location. Our cloud networking supports automated provisioning, where a device that is connected to the network for the first time can automatically find and download its proper configuration. Our cloud network solution also includes troubleshooting capabilities, such as dashboards to quickly identify potential issues and monitoring to easily research and resolve issues. Finally, cloud networking makes it possible for a customer to very quickly evaluate the capabilities of our solution. A single wireless access point with a corresponding license for HiveManager gives customers complete access to our capabilities. Overall, we believe that our customers are able to manage even large networks with a small staff and limited resources by taking advantage of our cloud network capabilities. We believe that some customers want the capabilities of cloud networking but also need to manage their network in their own datacenter, behind their own firewall. HiveManager can be installed and run "on premises" at a customer location with the same functionality and same software as we offer in the public cloud. While we were an early leader in cloud networking we continue to invest and innovate. In April 2015, we launched HiveManager NG as the next generation of our cloud network management application. HiveManager NG offers an updated user interface, improved troubleshooting, and support for larger deployments. We view HiveManager NG as our strategic cloud application for the future. Scalable Wi-Fi . Our scalable Wi-Fi provides the connectivity for the overall Aerohive solution. We have built our Wi-Fi around a distributed control architecture that simplifies operations and improves resilience. Integral to our Wi-Fi is the ability to securely control access to the wireless network. We also offer the access switches and branch routers needed for a complete access network infrastructure. We believe our distributed control remains one of our key innovations and differentiators. Over the last decade, Wi-Fi architectures have gone through a series of evolutions in response to changing technologies and user requirements. When the original autonomous Wi-Fi access points proved difficult to manage wireless LAN controllers were introduced to the network. Wireless LAN controllers brought management, but they also brought the cost and complexity of dedicated hardware, a new single point of failure, and rigid deployments too inflexible to meet dynamic requirements of wireless networks. To overcome these limitations other vendors have integrated their controller with switches or Wi-Fi access points, or moved their controller into the cloud, with greater cost and limited capabilities. In contrast, our architecture fully distributes the control plane across the W-Fi access points, eliminating the need for any wireless LAN controller and reducing cost of operations. Radio management, client roaming, load balancing, policy enforcement, and packet inspection are some of the functions that can be performed locally on the Wi-Fi access point. The algorithms for distributed control are delivered by HiveOS, our device operating system that runs on every Aerohive Wi-Fi access point. Our distributed control architecture provides key benefits to our customers. Most important is the scalability of a single architecture effective for deployments from one to thousands of Wi-Fi access points. Most of our competitors have different technologies and products for different sizes of deployments. Our customers can start small and grow as they need to without any change in architecture or Wi-Fi technology. Our customers can also mix different generations of Wi-Fi access points in the same network, providing investment protection. Overall, by intelligently distributing control over the Wi-Fi access points our architecture can support faster deployments and greater resiliency. Integral to our scalable Wi-Fi is the ability to enforce security at the Wi-Fi access point based on the end users access policies, which can be based on the application being used, user identity and role, device type and ownership, location and time of day. Our Private Pre-Shared Key, or PPSK, technology extends these capabilities to assign each device a unique key for accessing the network that can be authorized or revoked without impacting any other network devices. PPSK can also be used in IoT deployments to authorize devices that do not have a keyboard or some other mechanism for providing credentials. While we emphasize our Wi-Fi capabilities our portfolio also includes wired access switches and branch routers. Wireless access points generally connect to an access switch for connectivity and power. Branch routers can provide a connection for a remote office to the wide area network. Our Wi-Fi access points do not require either our switches or branch routers - they can be used with products from other major network hardware manufacturers. However, customers who purchase our access switches or branch routers gain the ability to manage them with their wireless access points through a single HiveManager interface. Applications and Insights . Increasingly, our customers are looking for value from their network beyond just connectivity. Wireless networks collect enormous amounts of data about users and devices - where they are, how they are being used, how often they are on the network, etc. Our emerging capabilities in applications and insights make it possible to combine the data collected by our network with other data sets to support new business and IT applications. Our programs to develop applications and insights, and to sponsor an ecosystem to enable our partners to develop applications using our data, are intended to address a variety of use cases. Some examples include: Network Management. Tracking the behavior of the network to identify opportunities to improve performance. For example, our HiveManager NG application provides a simpler, more efficient way to manage a wireless and wired network. Network Access. Streamlining how access to the network is granted. For example, our personal device access capabilities can be integrated with an application to allow guest to register their devices on the network, then have their registration approved by an employee from their mobile phone. Business Insight. Tracking the presence and location of users and devices. For example, our presence data can be used to understand the behavior of consumers in a retail environment, or when employees come to work in the office. These applications, including our HiveManager NG management application, are built on the same Aerohive Cloud Services (ACS) platform. The ACS platform collects data from Aerohive network devices, other vendor devices, or other third-party sources. Collected data can be aggregated into a secure and scalable cloud-based big data store, which then can be processed and made available externally via application programming interfaces (APIs). Application developers can incorporate these APIs into their applications in order to receive data and analytics from us without needing to collect and process this data themselves. This approach means that the ACS platform has the extensibility to support additional use cases in the future. A key element of our applications strategy is to deliver open APIs that can be used by anyone. In November of 2015 we launched our Aerohive Developer Program to promote our APIs and support the creation by third parties of applications to use our data. We expect to continue to expand the APIs and analytics that are available from the ACS platform in order to create an open application development environment that makes it possible for us, our customers, and/or our partners to use our APIs to create additional applications. Products Our solution is available to end customers as a portfolio of products that includes our hardware products, cloud-based network management and applications, and support services. Our hardware products include Wi-Fi access points, branch routers and access switches. Our hardware products are developed by our hardware design team working in conjunction with original design manufacturer, or ODM, partners, and leverage the latest commercially available and economically viable Wi-Fi radios, processors, and switching chips. Our hardware products run on our proprietary HiveOS operating system. We sell our access switches and branch routers in conjunction with a sale of Wi-Fi access points. We also sell our Wi-Fi access points for use with other manufactures access switches. Our cloud-based product offering includes HiveManager, our network management application, and our Mobility Suite, which includes our Guest Access, Personal Device Access, ID Manager, and Social Login applications. We continue to invest in our cloud platform and applications, including our next-generation network manager, HiveManager NG, which we released during our second quarter of our fiscal year 2015 that includes an updated user interface, more-scalable cloud operations infrastructure, and greater access to the data collected by our devices. We offer tiered maintenance and support services under renewable, fee-based maintenance and support contracts, which include technical support, bug fixes, access to priority hardware replacement service and unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if available basis. Our Software as a Service, or SaaS, subscriptions include comparable maintenance and support services. Segment and Geographic Information We operate one reporting segment and operating segment structure. Financial information about our operating segment and geographic areas are presented in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Customers We sell our products through a network of authorized resellers and distributors and managed service providers. Our products have been sold to over 24,000 end-customers worldwide. We define end-customers as organizations holding or having held licenses to our products and software subscription and services. Our end-customers represent a broad range of industry verticals, including K-12 and higher education, healthcare, retail and distributed enterprises. During the fourth quarter of 2015 we engaged an external research company to conduct a customer satisfaction survey. Respondents participating in this survey reported very high levels of satisfaction with the Aerohive solution, as reflected in a net promoter score of 64. 95% of respondents indicated they would recommend our solutions, while 97% indicated their intent to continue using our solution. Sales As our sales model, we use channel partners to sell and deliver our solutions to our end-user customers, supported by our sales organization. Our field-based regional sales organization supports large-account acquisition and overall market development. Our centrally based inside sales teams focus on the acquisition of mid-market accounts in both the Enterprise and State & Local Government / Education segments. Our channel sales team recruits and manages channel partners. Our sales engineers have responsibility for pre-sales technical support, solutions engineering for our end-customers, and technical training for our channel partners. We expect to continue to grow our sales headcount in our principal markets and to expand selectively our presence into countries where we currently do not have a direct sales presence. Our sales teams work with our channel partners who have networking, Wi-Fi and/or vertical market expertise to win and support end-customers through a direct-touch approach. Our value-added distributors, or VADs, sell our products to and support our value-added resellers, or VARs, who then sell our products directly to end user customers, often with the addition of their own installation or professional services. We are increasingly working with Managed Service Providers, or MSPs, who bundle our product and service offerings with their own infrastructure and services to provide ongoing network operations and management to end-customers. Sales to these channel partners are subject to our standard, non-exclusive distributor or reseller agreements, which provide for an initial term of one to three years and one-year renewal terms based on compliance with our program requirements. We operate a formal accreditation program for our channel partners sales and technical professionals. VARs and VADs work together on a non-exclusive basis to market our products, identify and close sales opportunities and provide pre-sales and post-sales services to our end-customers. Our channel partner program rewards our channel partners based on a number of attainment goals and provides them access to product discounts, technical and sales training and support, and marketing funds. We announced in April 2015 a new relationship with Dell Inc., whereby Dell has become a reseller of our Wi-Fi and cloud services, and in September 2015, we announced with Brocade and Juniper Networks collaborations that allow us to meet in the channel and co-sell a combined wired and wireless solutions to our end-customers. We also have an existing relationship with Apple, where certain of our Wi-Fi access point products can be purchased through Apples online retail website. To support these new relationships, we are continuing to identify and invest in additional and dedicated resources and, potentially, new product, service and support offerings. Backlog We typically accept and ship orders for product and related services within a short time frame. However, our partners may reschedule orders without penalty or we may delay shipment due to inventory constraints. As such, we do not believe that our backlog at any particular time is a reliable indicator of future revenue. Research and Development Continued investment in research and development is critical to our business. To this end, we have assembled a team of engineers with expertise in various fields, including networking platforms, cloud operations and applications, security systems, RF functions, user interface design and open source programming. We currently conduct our research and development efforts in California, China and Oregon. We have invested significant time and financial resources in the development of our products, including our ACS, HiveManager and our HiveOS platforms. We view continued investment in these capabilities as essential to our ability to differentiate ourselves in a competitive industry and to continue to be able to grow our business. For example, in 2015 we released HiveManager NG, our next-generation cloud services platform which will provide a basis for data services and data analytic applications, and we released additional software modules to enhance the functionality and performance of our HiveOS operating system. In 2015, we announced our ACS platform which will provide a secure and scalable cloud-based big data store for data collected from Aerohive network devices, other vendor devices, or other third-party sources, which can then be available to application developers to incorporate their API applications without needing to collect and process this data themselves. We also announced our Connected Experience platform that enables applications and insights that help our end-customers' business and IT team to unearth new data sources and opportunities for personalized access and engagement, increase productivity and efficiency, and ultimately fuel a better customer experience, leading to business growth. We plan to continue to expand our product offerings and solutions capabilities in the future and plan to continue to dedicate significant resources to these research and development efforts. Manufacturing We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware products to ODMs. We believe that using original design manufacturers helps to optimize our operations by lowering costs, reducing time-to-market and enabling us to adjust to changing end-customer demand. Our products are manufactured in China and Taiwan. Finished products are then shipped to warehousing and delivery logistics center in California and the Netherlands. We operate these logistic centers for all end-customer shipments, whether destined to locations in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, or Asia Pacific and Japan, or APAC. Our manufacturing partners procure components and assemble our products based on our demand forecasts. These forecasts represent our estimates at the time of future demand for our products, based upon historical trends and the assessment of our sales and product management functions of end-customer demand and overall market conditions. Our ODMs source the component parts within our products. We do not contract directly and do not have any long-term manufacturing contracts that guarantee us any fixed access to such component parts or specific pricing. This absence of direct and long-term component supply contracts may increase our exposure to shortages of component availability and to price fluctuations related to the raw material inputs for such components. We are in the process of consolidating our manufacturing with our key manufacturers, and renegotiating those contractual relationships, to provide for longer termination notices and transition terms in the event we or they terminate our manufacturing relationship. By concentrating our purchasing across a small number of manufacturers, we hope to increase our relative position and the significance of our relationships with those manufacturers. Competition We operate in a competitive market for enterprise mobility and network edge infrastructure, which has in the past experienced high growth and continues to experience constant change and consolidation. Our competitors fall into two main groups: General networking vendors, such as Cisco/Meraki and Hewlett-Packard/Aruba, whose portfolios include enterprise mobility solutions; Independent Wi-Fi vendors, such as Ruckus Wireless, which are primarily focused on wireless access products but who may also enter the market for enterprise-class mobility solutions. We may also face increasing competition from new entrants to our market and from smaller private companies, such as Xirrus and others. Trends in enterprise mobility, including the proliferation of mobile devices, increased BYOD utilization, enterprise adoption of cloud and the adoption of mobile-first applications are all significantly increasing the importance of wireless inside the enterprise. The principal competitive factors in our market include: ability to address specific customer deployment requirements; ease of use and simplicity of solutions; flexibility and feature depth of solutions; capability to support business or customer facing applications; price and total cost of ownership; performance and scalability of products; network survivability and reliability of solutions; and security of the network. We believe that we generally compete favorably on the basis of all of these factors. However, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger sales and marketing budgets, broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers and larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios which provide a greater ability to assemble, market, and aggressively price different capabilities across an integrated product platform. For example, several of our competitors, including Cisco and Ruckus, have committed significant internal sales and marketing resources to increase their participation in the 2016 FCCs E-Rate funding program for K-12 schools. Ruckus also announced in 2015, that they are developing access point products and applications intended for the enterprise, a market in which we currently compete. Seasonality See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information regarding seasonality of our business. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. We rely on patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2015, we had 22 issued patents and 42 patent applications pending in the United States relating to our current and next-generation networking products, operating platform and cloud-based applications, and the ability to claim priority to most of the patent applications worldwide. Our first issued patents begin to expire in 2028. However, these patents or any patents that may issue to us in the future may be subject to re-examination, contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may or may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing them. We also license software from third parties for integration into our products, including open source software. We believe our licenses are on commercially reasonable terms. We utilize internal and external controls to restrict access to and use of our proprietary software and other confidential information, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, end-customers and channel partners. Our software is also protected by U.S. and international copyright laws. However, despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets and proprietary rights through intellectual property rights, licenses and confidentiality agreements, third parties may still copy our products or otherwise obtain and use our software and technology without our knowledge or authority or in ways we do not intend. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, and competitors increasingly may utilize litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights to protect or expand their market position. In particular, leading and more mature companies in the wireless networking industry have extensive patent portfolios and are regularly involved in both offensive and defensive litigation. From time-to-time, third parties, including certain of these leading companies and, increasingly, non-operating entities, may assert patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our end-customers. In these instances, our standard license and other agreements may obligate us to indemnify our channel partners and end-customers against such claims. Successful claims of infringement by a third party could prevent us from distributing certain products or performing certain services, require us to expend significant management attention and money to develop non-infringing solutions or force us to pay substantial damages, royalties or other fees. This could include treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights. As end customers increasingly use our products and services, and to the extent that we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims from third parties, including our competitors but also increasingly non-operating entities, who will be more likely to claim that our platform infringes their proprietary rights, or to develop products and services that are similar to ours and that may infringe our proprietary rights. In addition, our products utilize software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, including as incorporated into software we receive from third party commercial software vendors. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software that we use. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release portions of the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This could allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time, and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. We cannot assure that we do not currently infringe, or that we will not in the future infringe, any third-party patents or other proprietary rights, including relating to use of third-party open source software. See Part I, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings and Part I, Item 1A - Risk Factors-Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other rights could harm our business for additional information. Employees As of December 31, 2015, we had 624 employees in offices in the Americas, EMEA and APAC. None of our employees is represented by labor unions, whether in the United States or abroad. We consider all current employee relations to be good. However, we continue to see a high rate of employee turn-over, particularly amongst our Silicon Valley employees where competition is typically high for sales and engineering personnel, and Hangzhou China, where we currently maintain our principal research presence, where competition is high for highly skilled product development and engineering personnel. Corporate Information In March 2006, we incorporated our business in the State of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 330 Gibraltar Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94089. Our telephone number at that location is (408) 510-6100. Our website address is www.aerohive.com. Information on our website is not part of this prospectus and should not be relied upon in determining whether to invest in our common stock. We are an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or JOBS Act. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, or (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the prior three year period. Website Posting of SEC Filings We make available on our website, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish them with the SEC. You can access these reports and amendments by clicking on the Company/Investor Relations tab. Further, you may read and copy these materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. The contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as a part of, this report or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating Aerohive and our business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report, including our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following or other risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects could be materially harmed. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and we may not achieve profitability in the future. In February 2016, we indicated that we believe we can achieve quarterly non-GAAP profitability in 2016, based on revenues in the range of $50 million to $51 million, and that we expect to meet this objective through a combination of revenue growth and controlled operating expenses. However, we have a history of losses and we have never achieved profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, and we cannot predict with certainty whether or when we might be profitable in the foreseeable future. We experienced net losses of $33.2 million, $30.6 million and $46.2 million for fiscal years 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, our accumulated deficit was $197.1 million . We expect to continue to incur expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business, including expenditures to hire additional personnel, including specifically personnel relating to sales and marketing, and investments in channel and product development and support. As such, we may not control our expenses sufficiently to achieve profitability on a non-GAAP basis even if we achieve quarterly revenue in the indicated range. If we fail to increase our revenue and manage our cost structure, we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Once achieved, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability, at all or at levels our investors or industry analysts expect, or we may choose to continue to make investments in our operations which we feel will promote long-term growth but which will reduce near-term profitability. This could also require us to continue to use available cash to support our investments and ongoing operations. As a result, our business and prospects, and how investors view and value our common stock, would be harmed. It is difficult for us to evaluate our prospects and future financial results, which may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We incorporated our business in 2006, began commercial shipments of our products in 2007, and have been a public company since March 2014. It is difficult for us to forecast our future operating results. Our prospects should be considered and evaluated in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies with only limited operating histories. These risks and difficulties include challenges in accurate financial planning as a result of limited historical data and the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to more mature companies with longer operating histories. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results in any particular period or over an extended period to fall below expectations of investors or analysts. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect will continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. In particular, the timing and size of sales of our products and services are highly variable and difficult to predict and can result in significant fluctuations in our revenue from period to period. Other participants in our industry have also experienced these fluctuations. As a result, our future results in any particular period or over any extended period may be difficult for us, our investors and analysts to predict. In addition, our planned expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future revenue. We may choose to increase levels of investment in areas such as R&D and sales and marketing, despite near-term fluctuations in revenue, in order to position us for continued growth. In addition, because any substantial adjustment to expenses to account for lower levels of revenue may be difficult and may take time to implement, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for a shortfall in revenue. In such instances, even a small shortfall or seasonal fluctuation in revenue could disproportionately and adversely affect our operating margin, operating results and use of cash for a given quarter. Our operating results may also fluctuate due to a variety of other factors, both within and outside of our control and which we may not foresee, or which we may foresee but not effectively manage, including the changing and volatile domestic and international economic environments, and demand for our products in general and from any particular vertical which may be a target market for our products, and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. In addition to other risks listed in this Risk Factors section, factors that may affect our operating results include: 10 fluctuations in demand for our products and services, including seasonal variations, especially in the education vertical where purchasing in the United States is typically stronger in the second and third quarters and weakest in the first and fourth quarters and where purchasing at any time may depend on the availability of funding, including fluctuations based on government sponsored initiatives, including the timing and availability of funding for schools under the FCCs E-Rate program and the decisions of schools to defer purchases in anticipation of the availability of such funding or due to a decision to delay product deployments; the sequential expansion of our operating performance typically from the first quarter to the second quarter, and our ability to sustain that expansion in subsequent quarters; our ability to hire, train, develop, integrate and retain a sufficient number of skilled sales and engineering employees to support our continued growth, including internationally and to replace turn-over of our employees in these functions and locations; turn-over of our skilled sales and engineering employees, including internationally; the complexity, length and associated unpredictability of our sales cycles for our products and services; changes in end-customers budgets for technology purchases and delays in their purchasing decisions and cycles; technical challenges in end-customer networks, which may be unrelated to our products, which could delay adoption and installation and impact the operation of our products and purchases of our services; delay in development and availability of component parts needed for development and timely introduction of our next-generation products and product features; our ability to develop and sustain sales capacity across all our sales territories; changing market conditions; changes in the competitive dynamics of our target markets, including new entrants, further consolidation and pricing trends; variation in sales channels, product costs, prices or the mix of products we sell; our contract manufacturers and component suppliers ability to meet our product demand forecasts on time, at acceptable prices, or at all; our ability to develop and make more productive relationships with our channel partners and our channel partners ability to effectively develop sales opportunities and distribute our products; the timing of our product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors, such as next-generation products or product features; our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements, to support and improve such products after introduction, and to anticipate future market demands that meet our end-customers and channel partners requirements; our ability to successfully expand the suite of products we sell and services we offer to existing end-customers and channel partners, to manage the transition of our end-customers to these new products and services and to limit disruption to our end-customers ordering practices and the pricing environment for our legacy products and services; the potential need to record additional inventory reserves for products that may become obsolete or slow moving due to our new product introductions, changes in end-customer requirements, new competitive product or service offerings or our over-estimation of demand for such products as of any particular period; our decision to continue or increase our investments in sales, marketing, engineering and other activities in response to changes in the marketplace or perceived marketplace opportunities or in anticipation of or to position us for future growth; our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of the components we purchase while also continuing to invest in sales, marketing, engineering and other activities; the continuing strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of the countries of our VADs or end-customer who purchase our products, or our contract manufacturers or the component suppliers to our contract manufacturers, may require us to reduce pricing for our products outside the United States in order to maintain sales and revenue performance, or raise the cost we must pay to our manufacturers for our products, resulting in either case in lower revenue and/or gross margins for those products; our ability to derive benefits from our investments in sales, marketing, engineering or other activities; 11 growth in our headcount, including hiring related to our status as a public company and hiring to support any future growth in our business, especially skilled sales and engineering employees; volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock compensation expenses or harm our ability to effectively incentivize our employees using stock-based compensation; the ability of our competitors, including those with greater financial resources, to drive down pricing on our products and services, which could materially reduce our revenue and gross margins; our ability to achieve as of any particular period or over time a level of financial performance consistent with the expectations of our investors and industry analysts; and general economic or political conditions in our domestic and international markets. The effects of these factors individually or in combination could result in unpredictability in our quarterly and annual operating results, our ability to forecast those results and our ability to achieve those forecasts. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. This variability and unpredictability could also result in our failing to meet the expectations of our investors or financial analysts for any period. We may release guidance in our quarterly earnings conference calls, quarterly earnings releases, or otherwise, based on predictions of management, which are necessarily speculative in nature. Our guidance may vary materially from actual results. For example, on October 13, 2014, we issued a press release announcing our preliminary results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2014, which were below our previously stated guidance primarily due to weaker than expected order volume. Similarly, on February 11, 2015, we provided a guidance range for revenue for our first quarter ending March 31, 2015, which was below the estimates of financial analysts at that time. On April 13, 2015, we provided a revised lower guidance range for our revenue for the quarter, primarily due to a combination of significantly lower-than-expected U.S. education business during the quarter, orders received late in the quarter that could not be recognized as revenue, and continued sales execution challenges. If our revenue or operating results, or the rate of growth of our revenue or operating results, fall below the expectations of our investors or financial analysts, or below any forecasts or guidance we may provide to the market, or if the forecasts we provide to the market are below the expectations of analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Such a stock price decline could occur even when we have met our own or other publicly stated revenue or earnings forecasts. Our failure to meet our own or other publicly stated revenue or earnings forecasts, or even when we meet our own forecasts but fall short of analyst or investor expectations, could cause our stock price to decline and expose us to costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. Such litigation against us could impose substantial costs and divert of managements attention and resources. Our business creates significant seasonal variance in our quarterly revenue, which makes it difficult to compare or forecast our financial results on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Our revenue fluctuates on a seasonal basis, which affects the comparability of our results between periods. For example, our total revenue has historically decreased from our fourth quarter to the first quarter of our next fiscal year due to seasonal buying patterns and budget cycles within both our education vertical and general enterprise end-customers. Demand in the education vertical tends to be weakest in the first and fourth quarters. However, we also historically have seen a sequential increase in end-of-year purchases by enterprise customers in our fourth quarter, which we believe is mainly due to an expectation to complete purchases within their calendar-year budget cycle. These seasonal variations are difficult to predict accurately and at times may be entirely unpredictable. In addition, the typical sequential expansion of our operating performance from the first quarter to the second quarter can create execution, delivery and product support challenges in subsequent quarters. Our ability to sustain that expansion in subsequent quarters, particularly in our less-developed sales territories, introduces additional risk into our business and our ability to accurately provide our own publicly stated revenue and earnings forecasts. In addition, we rely upon forecasts of end-customer demand to build inventory in advance of anticipated sales. We believe our past growth has, in part, made our seasonal patterns more difficult to discern, making it more difficult for us to predict future seasonal patterns and, therefore, forecast product demand and inventory requirements. Moreover, part of our strategy is to increase our sales in non-education verticals, and if our sales mix changes the seasonal nature of our revenue may change in an unpredictable way, which could increase the volatility of both our financial results and stock price. The market and demand for our products and services may not develop as we expect. Our year-over-year revenue grew 10% from 2014 to 2015, 28% from 2013 to 2014 and 50% from 2012 to 2013. The slowing rate of our revenue growth may continue as the general demand for wireless networking in the industry verticals that we target, or demand for our products in particular, may grow at a slower rate than we anticipate or not at all. For example, enterprises may rely more heavily upon cellular connectivity, whose speed and convenience may grow rapidly in coming years, 12 while costs decline. The wireless networking radio spectrum may become more crowded, reducing performance of wireless networking devices. Part of our strategy depends upon expanding sales of our cloud-managed wireless networking, switching and routing products to medium and large enterprise headquarters, branch offices and teleworkers. In addition, we intend to develop our next-generation cloud services platform as a basis for data services and data analytic applications. Sales of such products, services and applications to enterprise end-customers typically require long sales cycles and are subject to price sensitivity. Moreover, many potential end-customers in the enterprise market have substantial network expertise and experience, which may require a more-costly and sophisticated marketing and sales strategy. It is unclear whether our end-customers will pay for data analytics or other SaaS services we expect to provide or, instead, require us to provide them as enhancements to our support offerings (at no cost to them or incremental revenue to us). If our competitors offer services or provide technologies or application platforms superior to our cloud-managed platform, alone or as part of a more integrated offering or at reduced pricing, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, Ruckus also announced in 2015, that they are developing access point products and applications intended for the enterprise, a market in which we currently compete. Our target end-customers could discontinue use of wireless networking technology, the use of wireless networking-enabled mobile devices could decrease or wireless networking could cease to be the preferred connectivity option for our target markets. As a result, demand for our products, services and applications may not continue to develop as we anticipate, or at all, and the value of our stock could decline. A significant portion of our sales is concentrated in the education vertical, which may cause us to have longer sales cycles, and be subject to program funding constraints. A significant portion of our revenue is concentrated in the education vertical. The majority of our sales in education is concentrated in both public and private K-12 institutions. This vertical is characterized by long sales cycles and often requires additional sales efforts. In addition, this vertical typically operates on limited budgets, and depends on annual budget approvals, which add additional uncertainty to the sales cycle. For example, the U.S. federal government is providing supplemental funding to local school districts in conjunction with its E-Rate initiative to assist districts to upgrade their technical infrastructure, including Wi-Fi infrastructure. The announced incremental federal funding is significant and available over a five-year period, which began in the second half of 2015. However, this program, its eligibility criteria, the timing and specific amount of federal funding actually available and which Wi-Fi infrastructure and product sectors will benefit, are subject to federal program guidelines and funding appropriations, which can change from year-to-year. Corresponding funding appropriation by respective states and local districts is also uncertain and, even upon such appropriation, local districts must still then submit and have approved applications consistent with the final timing and eligibility requirements of the federal program. We also believe that the prospect of federal funding available each annual cycle continues to cause some K-12 institutions to delay or defer near-term transactions they might otherwise make during the cycle to purchase our products. For example, we believe that the availability of federal funding later in 2015 under the E-Rate program caused some K-12 institutions to defer to later in 2015 (and even into 2016) spending decisions we typically would have seen in the first several quarters of 2015. In addition, K-12 institutions otherwise prepared to place orders in 2015 may have deferred their decisions to coincide with preferred deployment schedules, further deferring purchasing decisions to 2016. We believe these amplified the historical sequential decline in product revenue we previously experienced from the fourth quarter into the first quarter and shifted spending from the first half of our fiscal 2015 into the second half of the year and into early fiscal 2016. In addition, the period in 2016 for districts to submit Form 471 funding requests was extended this year, compared to 2015, which could affect the timing of federal funding approvals and district purchases. It is also possible under the federal program for schools which have filed Form 471 forms specifying Aerohive products to cancel such awards prior to placing product orders, and to re-apply in 2016 under the program for a different or larger implementation, with new orders which may be with us or one of our competitors. These delays and potential changes will continue to impact our revenue forecasts and create greater uncertainty regarding our operating performance for these periods. For example, we currently expect this could result in the sequential decline in our product revenue in our first quarter of fiscal 2016 to be greater than we have historically experienced, though moderately less than we experienced in our first quarter of fiscal 2015. These are specific examples of the many factors which add additional uncertainty to our future revenue from our education end-customers. Our sales cycles often require significant time, effort and investment and are subject to risks beyond our control. Our sales efforts can take several quarters, and involve educating our potential customers about the applications and benefits of our products, including the technical capabilities of our products and associated applications and services, and 13 recruiting and developing our channel partners. In our newly developing sales territories, including those territories where we continue to respond to turn-over, we continue to experience slower-than-expected sales growth. As a result, we continue to invest in these territories, which may take significant time and effort in order to realize growth. Sales to the education vertical are an important channel for us, and can involve an extended sales cycle. In addition, sales to our enterprise customers may also involve an extended sales cycle, and often initial purchases are small. Purchases of our products are also frequently subject to our end-customers budget constraints, multiple approvals, unplanned administrative processing and other risks and delays. Moreover, the evolving nature of the market may lead prospective end-customers to postpone their purchasing decisions pending resolution of wireless networking or other standards, or wait for adoption of technology developed by others. In addition, we pay our sales staff commissions upon receiving orders; however, we typically recognize revenue on products only after the products are shipped to end-customers, or until certain other terms of sales are satisfied. As a result, some of the cost of obtaining sales, including paying sales commissions, may occur in a fiscal period prior to the fiscal period in which we may recognize revenue from a sale, which may cause additional fluctuations in our operating results and cash flows and balances from quarter to quarter. We need to develop new products and continue to make enhancements to our existing products to remain competitive in a rapidly changing market. The technology and end-customer demands in the wireless networking market change rapidly, which requires us to continuously develop and release new products and product features and associated applications and services. We must continuously anticipate and adapt to our end-customers needs and market trends, and continue to make investments to develop or acquire new products, applications and services that meet market demands, technology trends and regulatory requirements. If our competitors introduce new products, applications and services that compete with ours, we may be required to reposition our product offerings or introduce new products in response to such competitive pressure. If we fail to develop new products, product enhancements applications or services, or fail to effectively manage the transition of our end-customers to these new products, applications or services, or our end-customers or potential end-customers do not perceive our products, applications or services to have compelling technical advantages, our business and prospects could be adversely affected, particularly if our competitors are able to introduce solutions with increased functionality. Developing our products is challenging and involves substantial commitment of resources and significant development risk. Each phase in our product development presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could impact the timing and cost-effective development of products, and each of which could affect our ability to take advantage of a business opportunity or could jeopardize end-customer acceptance of the product. We have experienced in the past and may in the future experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements. For example, we are currently developing the next versions of our Wi-Fi hardware, including our .11ac Wave 2 products and our HiveManager NG cloud services platform providing cloud-delivered network management applications and on-premises network management, as well as supporting data structures, analytics and APIs. We also recently announced programs to develop new data analytics services and API platforms. These are complex technical undertakings and subject to many variables and risks of delay. For example, we announced in August 2015 that our Wave 2 .11ac products, which we had expected to be commercially available in the second half of 2015, would not likely be available until early 2016. This delay was due to delays in the development and availability to us of a component part essential to our development and release of the product. In addition, the introduction of new or enhanced products requires that we carefully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customer ordering practices, and ensure that new products can be timely delivered to meet our end-customers demand and to limit inventory obsolescence. Further, after delivery of new products we may identify and must timely address performance issues as the products are used in the field in a particular environment or at scale which we could not replicate or did not anticipate during development. As a result, our end-customers may defer decisions to purchase our existing products in anticipation of our expected release of a next-generation product. For example, our end-customers who might otherwise make decisions in our first quarter of fiscal 2016 to purchase our existing products may determine to defer until later in 2016 in anticipation of our expected release of our Wave 2 products. This may particularly be true of our K-12 end-customers, who are more inclined to adopt new radio technologies quicker than enterprise customers who are more inclined to deploy more proven technologies and products. In addition, some competitors announced earlier in 2015 availability of their first Wave 2 products. Existing or potential customers considering our existing products or future availability of our Wave 2 products may elect instead to purchase competitor products currently or earlier available. We also may not correctly anticipate customer interest in or demand for our data analytics services of API platforms, or our customers may expect that we provide these additional services as part of our existing product support (and at no cost to them or incremental revenue to us). If we do not carefully manage the timing of our new products or product feature releases, and effectively support the new products and product feature releases, we could interfere with our end-customers continued purchases of our legacy product offerings and disrupt the pricing environment for our new and legacy products, which could drive down our revenues and operating margins. As a result, we may not be successful in modifying our current products or 14 introducing new products in a timely or appropriately responsive manner, or at all. If we fail to address these changes successfully, our business and operating results and prospects would be materially harmed. Our gross margin will vary over time and may decline in the future. Our gross margin was 66.8% , 67.4% and 66.7% for fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our gross margin will vary over time, may be difficult to predict and may decline in future periods. Our gross margins also vary across our product lines and, therefore, a change in the mix of products our end-customers purchase would likely have a significant impact on our gross margins. We may face additional competition for these products, either by introduction of new products by new or existing competitors, or by our end-customers using lower-priced products, including our own, which are becoming increasingly more sophisticated. The exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies has strengthened significantly of late, which may require us to reduce pricing for our products outside the United States in order to maintain sales and revenue performance, but as a result at lower gross margins for those products. In addition, the market for wireless networking products is characterized by rapid innovation and declining average sales prices as products mature in the market place. Even if we are successful in launching new products, competition may continue to increase in the market segments in which we compete, which would likely result in increased pricing competition. To retain our average margins, we are required to continuously update our products and introduce new products and reduce our manufacturing and sales-related costs and expenses, and we could fail to accomplish this. In addition, the sales prices for our products and services may decline for a variety of reasons, including sales strategy, competitive pricing pressures, customer demand, discounts, a change in our mix of products and services, including seasonal changes in our end-customers ordering practices, anticipation of the introduction of new products or services and decisions by end-customers to defer purchases, or promotional programs. For example, we may introduce new products or offerings at lower price points than competitive offerings or our own legacy offerings to help drive the adoption of our new products and this may adversely affect our revenues and operating margins. Larger competitors, such as Cisco/Meraki and Hewlett-Packard/Aruba, with significantly greater financial, sales and engineering resources and/or more diverse product and service offerings may reduce the price of their products or services that compete with ours or may bundle them with other products and services. If we do not similarly reduce our product manufacturing costs, our margins will decline. Alternatively, we would need to reduce our prices for such products or services in order to remain competitive, which would also cause our margins (and revenue) to decline. Any such declines in our gross margins or revenue could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. As a result of being a public company, we need to further develop and maintain our internal control over financial reporting. If our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, it may adversely affect investor confidence in our company. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015. This assessment will need to include a disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. We continue to develop our system and documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete on an annual basis our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. We cannot be certain that we will not discover material weaknesses or control deficiencies in the future. If our remediation efforts are not successful or other material weaknesses or control deficiencies occur in the future, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or on a timely basis, which could cause our reported financial results to be materially misstated and result in the loss of investor confidence or delisting and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls when it is required to do so by the applicable rules, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline, and we may be subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC. We will be required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis. To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal