ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations and involves risks and uncertainties. The words believe, will, may, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, expect, predict, could, potentially and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to predict our revenue, operating results and gross margin accurately; the transition of newly hired management-level employees and their ability to improve our sales execution processes; our ability to maintain revenue growth and achieve and maintain profitability; our ability to timely develop, deliver and transition to new product offerings while maintaining existing product revenue and our existing service level commitments to end-customers; our ability to continue to secure orders from larger customers and any potential loss of or reductions in orders from such larger customers; our ability to achieve growth in key verticals, including the educational sector; our ability to maximize the economic opportunity of the U.S. Federal Communications Commissions (FCC) E-Rate program and the timing of the availability of funding and decisions by end-customers to purchase our products using such funding; the length and seasonal unpredictability of our sales cycles, including with service provider end-customers; 20 the effects of increased competition in and consolidation of our market and our ability to compete with larger competitors with greater financial, technical and other resources; our ability to continue to enhance and broaden our product offering and bring new products to market; the performance of our product offerings in the field, including in applications and environments which we do not anticipate or could not replicate during development; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand; our ability to attract new end-customers within the verticals and geographies in which we currently operate and those that we target; our ability to predict economic, political and business conditions in the markets in which we operate; our ability to maintain effective internal controls; the quality of our products and services; our ability to continue to build and enhance relationships with channel partners and particularly with our strategic partners, including Dell; our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified employees and key personnel, particularly in sales and engineering; our ability to maximize our sales execution process and effectively ramp sales in underdeveloped territories; our ability to sell our products and effectively expand internationally; claims from shareholders that we have violated the securities laws and claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others, the expense to defend such claims and the uncertainty such claims create for us, including, with respect to intellectual property claims, our ability to continue to sell and support our products; our ability to effectively manage our growth; the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates, in particular the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain currencies, and our ability to price competitively our products and secure orders at such pricing, while maintaining our expected revenue and gross margin performance; our ability to protect our intellectual property and exposure to third party claims that we or our customers or channel partners infringe their intellectual property; and other risk factors included under the section titled Risk Factors. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A and elsewhere in this report. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Overview As a company, our goal is to be the leading independent cloud networking company, by delivering an open mobility platform that simplifies and transforms the connected experience through information, applications and insights. We have designed and developed a leading cloud-managed mobile networking platform that enables enterprises to deploy a mobile-centric network edge. Managing the network edge is becoming more complex because of the proliferation of mobile devices and the ways in which businesses use such devices. Increasingly, employees and clients are using Wi-Fi-enabled smartphones, tablets, laptops and other mobile devices instead of desktop computers for mission-critical business applications. The number and types of users continue to increase, as do the breadth of applications that users need to access on their mobile devices. As the difficulty and complexity of managing the network edge expands, our platform offers simplicity, scalability, and security. We derive revenue by selling our hardware products and related software licenses or software subscription and services, which together comprise our cloud-managed networking platform. Our products include Wi-Fi access points, routers and switches required to build an edge-access network; a cloud services platform for centralized management, data collection and 21 analytics; and applications that leverage the network to provide additional capabilities to the business and IT organization. Together, these products, service platforms and applications create a simple, scalable, and secure solution to deliver a better connected experience. Customers around the world, from Fortune 500 businesses to small schools, have chosen our products. We sell our products and software subscription and services through our channel partners to our end-customers, who hold the licenses to use our products and our software subscription and services. We define end-customers as holding or having held licenses to our products and software subscription and services. When our end-customers purchase hardware products they are generally required to purchase for every hardware unit a software license for our unified management system, either as a perpetual license with PCS or as a SaaS license with a one-, three- or five-year term. Both our PCS and SaaS offerings include updates and upgrades of our software applications and our HiveOS operating system that are embedded in our hardware. In the first quarter 2016, we continued our year-over-year revenue growth. For the first quarters 2016 and 2015, our revenue was $40.1 million and $25.8 million , respectively. However, we have yet to achieve profitability in any quarter. In the first quarters 2016 and 2015, our net losses were $12.5 million and $15.8 million , respectively. We typically experience seasonal sequential decreases in our product revenue in our first fiscal quarter, but sequential increases in product revenue from our fiscal first to second quarter. This has generally been due to annual budget cycles in the enterprise and spending seasonality in the education vertical. Given the buying cycle for K-12 schools in the United States, the second quarter has usually been the strongest for our education vertical, which historically has driven this strong sequential growth in the second quarter. In addition, we typically see continued growth in our revenue to carry over from our second quarter to our third quarter. We also historically typically see a sequential increase in our fourth quarter from our third quarter in total revenue due to end-of-year spending by enterprise customers, followed by a decline in revenue for the first quarter of the following fiscal year. Beginning in 2015, however, our seasonal trend changed as compared to prior years, due to the timing and availability of funding under the federal E-Rate program. E-Rate is the commonly used name for the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, which is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The program provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and Internet access. Purchases made by schools before April 1, 2015 were not eligible for E-Rate funding and actual E-Rate funding was not released to schools and libraries to fund transactions until after July 1, 2015. In order to be eligible for funding during a particular annual funding cycle the schools and libraries must then receive a Funding Commitment Decision Letter. We believe that based on the availability of this federal funding end-customers in the education vertical typically deferred purchases until they secured E-Rate funding and received a specific funding commitment letter. As a result, beginning in 2015, E-Rate amplified the historical sequential decline in product revenue we previously experienced from the fourth quarter into the first quarter and shifted spending from the first half of the year into the second half of the year, and even into the following year. We believe such deferrals and delays caused increased seasonal variations during our fiscal 2015 in demand for our products and services in the education vertical, making more difficult our ability to forecast our operating performance and achieve revenue and other operating results based on those forecasts. For example, the sales results for our first fiscal quarter 2015 were below expectations, primarily due to a pause in demand in U.S education business due to such various aspects and timing of the Federal E-Rate program. We also saw K-12 spending shift from the first half of the year into the second half of the year, and into our fiscal 2016 as well. We believe such deferrals and delays will continue during our fiscal 2016, as we expect that during the 2016 annual E-Rate funding cycle certain end-customers in the education vertical could decide further to delay purchasing and decisions to deploy their networks, which could also defer their purchasing decisions to the second half of 2016 and into 2017. In addition, the period in 2016 for districts to submit Form 471 funding requests was extended this year, compared to 2015. This has reduced our visibility early in the year to the level of E-Rate funding we may expect for Aerohive-related transactions over 2016, and specifically in our second and third quarters. Delaying federal funding approvals to later in our second quarter of 2016 also increases the risk that we may not be able to process at the end of the quarter the number of transactions required in order to achieve our expected revenue, or that transactions we expect in the current quarter are delayed to subsequent quarters. We expect our historical seasonality to continue in 2016 and again to be amplified, as was the case in 2015, by the availability of project funding and timing of such funding under the E-Rate program. We primarily conduct business in three geographic regions: (1) Americas, (2) Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, and (3) Asia Pacific, or APAC. From a geographic perspective, year-over-year revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased by 73% in the Americas, 32% in EMEA and 44% in APAC. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, 61% of our total revenue was generated from Americas, 30% from EMEA and 9% from APAC. We outsource the manufacturing of all of our products to contract manufacturers. We currently outsource the warehousing and delivery of our products to a third-party logistics provider for worldwide fulfillment, located in California and in the Netherlands. 22 We intend to continue to invest significant resources in the development of our innovative technologies and new product offerings, acquire new end-customers in new and existing geographies, and increase penetration within our existing end-customer base. We expect to continue to invest in our organization to meet the needs of our customers and to pursue opportunities in new and existing markets. In particular, we are investing to increase our sales capacity as well as our channel program. Due to our continuing investments to grow our business, including internationally, in advance of and in preparation for, our expected increase in sales and expansion of our customer base, we are continuing to incur expenses in the near term. As a result, we may not be profitable for the foreseeable future and our use of cash over this period could also be greater and extend over a longer period as we make investments in areas of our operations, such as sales, marketing and research and product and channel partner development, which we feel may promote our growth and profitability over the long term. We believe that over the long term, we will be able to leverage these investments in the form of a higher revenue growth rate compared to the growth rate of our operating expenses. However, we may not in fact realize any long-term benefit from these investments. Opportunities and Challenges We believe that the growth of our business and our future success depends upon many factors, including our ability to continue to develop innovative technologies and timely provide new product offerings to the marketplace; continue to stabilize and improve performance of our sales function; increase our sales capacity and develop our channel partner program; acquire new end-customers; expand our end-customer base and increase penetration within our existing end-customer base (including through new product offerings); and at the same time demonstrate to our investors and financial analysts that we can achieve profitability within an acceptable timeline. We operate in the highly competitive wired and wireless network access products market. This market continues to evolve and is characterized by rapid technological innovation. We will need to continue to innovate in order to achieve market adoption of our products and services. We have continued the expansion of our product portfolio, announcing HiveManager NG in April 2015. Over the four quarters ended March 31, 2016, approximately 75% of our end-customers and approximately 36% of our Wi-Fi access point products in operation were deployed using our public cloud platform. We also continue to invest to extend our product offering to include a family of Ethernet switches and branch routers to complement our wireless offering and allow us to deliver a unified wired and wireless network edge. In addition, our market continues an evolution in related wireless technology standards from 802.11n to the new 802.11ac standard, which uses new radio hardware to deliver substantially higher wireless performance. As these standards were being developed and finalized, we performed hardware and software development, both internally and with our original design manufacturers, or ODMs, to incorporate these standards into our product offerings. We also continue to develop new functionality in our product offerings to take advantage of the changes that these industry standards incorporated. Overall, our 802.11 ac products accounted for 81% of our Wi-Fi access point unit volume shipments in the quarter ended March 31, 2016. In order to maintain a competitive position in this market, we continue to develop our next-generation Wave 2 802.11ac Wi-Fi access points to extend our portfolio and address higher-performance use cases. We announced in April 2016 our AP 250 and 245X access points, which are our initial Wave 2. These releases lagged Wave 2 product announcements from some of our competitors and there is a risk that existing or potential customers (including customers in our important education vertical) may elect not to purchase our products or defer purchases they otherwise would make of our products, whether in anticipation of competing Wave 2 products or while they wait for our new Wave 2 802.11ac W-Fi access points products to mature in the field. We have developed a cloud services platform to provide network management and support additional value-added applications. HiveManager, our network management application, provides a single management interface that customers use to configure network policies, monitor and troubleshoot performance, manage access and security, and run reports on network operations. Our focus is to continue to transition new and existing end customers to HiveManager NG and make our cloud services platform and applications available to customers in either a subscription public cloud or on-premises private cloud deployment. When we introduce new product offerings, such as the release of the new version of HiveManager NG, our cloud services or new hardware platforms, such as our AP 250 and 245X initial Wave 2 access points, we must effectively manage the timing of such releases to minimize the disruption to our existing product offerings and revenue streams. We must manage the orderly transition of our end-customers to these new products and services to reduce the amount of inventory for products that may become obsolete or slow-moving due to our new product introductions and to limit the disruption to our end-customers 23 ordering practices and the pricing environment for our legacy products and services. In addition, we also must monitor the performance of these products and provide additional support as they are adopted and first used in the field and performance issues are identified at scales of use greater than we may be able to create or anticipate during product development. We will need to continue to react and respond to these changes through innovation and improved execution in order for our business to succeed, and will incur related research and development and support expenses as we do it. Our ability to develop and make more productive relationships with our solution and channel partners and our channel partners ability to effectively develop sales opportunities and distribute our products continues to be a key opportunity for us. For example, we announced in April 2015 a new relationship with Dell Inc., whereby Dell became a reseller of Aerohives Wi-Fi and cloud services. In September 2015, we announced with Brocade and Juniper Networks collaborations that allow us to meet in the channel and co-sell a combined wired and wireless solutions to our end-customers. In February 2016, we announced a partnership with SYNNEX Corporation, as a value-added distributor of our products in the United States and Canada. To support these new relationships, we are continuing to identify and invest in additional and dedicated resources and, potentially, new product, service and support offerings. Key Components of Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Revenue We generate revenue from the sales of our products and services, and recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Our total revenue comprises the following: Product Revenue . Our product revenue consists of revenue from sales of our hardware products, which include wireless access points, branch routers, and switches, all of which are embedded with our proprietary operating system, HiveOS, and perpetual licenses of our unified network management system, HiveManager, and other software applications, as well as related accessories. We recognize product revenue at the time of shipment, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. For our VAD arrangements where we permit our VADs to stock inventory, we recognize revenue when our VADs have shipped the products to our end-customers (or to VARs that have identified end-customers), provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Software Subscription and Services Revenue. Our software subscription and services revenue consists of revenue from sales of our software subscription and services offerings that we deliver over a specified term. These offerings primarily include PCS related to our perpetual software licenses and subscriptions to HiveManager and other software applications delivered as SaaS, including related customer support, and from subsequent renewals of those contracts. To benefit fully from potential contract renewals we plan to continue to invest in systems to better track existing customer support commitments and renewal opportunities and provide offerings which continue to be attractive to our customers. Our PCS includes tiered maintenance and support services under renewable, fee-based maintenance and support contracts, which include technical support, bug fixes, access to priority hardware replacement services and unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if available basis. Our SaaS subscriptions include comparable maintenance and support services. The higher the percentage of our end-customers that purchase SaaS subscriptions, as opposed to HiveManager and PCS, the higher our software subscription and services revenue will be as a percentage of our total revenue. We recognize software subscription and services revenue ratably over the term of the contract, which is typically one, three or five years. As a result, our recognition of software subscription and services revenue lags our recognition of related product revenue. Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue includes the following: Cost of Product Revenue. Our cost of product revenue primarily includes manufacturing costs of our products payable to third-party manufacturers. Our cost of product revenue also includes personnel costs, including stock-based compensation, shipping costs, third-party logistics costs, provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, warranty and replacement costs, the depreciation and amortization of testing and imaging equipment, inbound license fees, certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs, and other expenses associated with logistics and quality control. Cost of Software Subscription and Services Revenue. Our cost of software subscription and services revenue primarily includes personnel costs, including stock-based compensation, certain allocated facilities information technology infrastructure costs, costs associated with our provision of PCS and SaaS and datacenter costs. Our cost of software subscription and services revenue also includes amortization of our internally developed, next-generation cloud services platform, which we completed and launched in April 2015. 24 Gross Profit Our gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including product shipment volumes, average sales prices of our products, discounts we offer to our VAR and VAD partners, the mix of revenue between products and software subscription and services, and the mix of hardware products sold, because our hardware products have varying gross margins depending on the product offering and the lifecycle of the product. Historically, our software subscription and services gross margin has been lower than our product gross margin; however, we expect our software subscription and services gross margin to increase over the long term because we expect our software subscription and services revenue to increase more quickly than our cost of software subscription and services revenue. We expect our gross margin to be volatile and may decrease in any given time in the event we experience additional competitive pricing pressure. For example, competitors such as Cisco Systems, Hewlett Packard (who recently acquired Aruba Networks) and, following its recently announced acquisition of Ruckus Networks, Brocade, have significantly greater financial resources and could attempt to gain a competitive advantage over us by aggressively lowering prices. Their ability to develop broader suites of products, and provide a complete and integrated wired and wireless hardware solution may be preferable to our end-customers. The continuing strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of the countries of our VADs or end-customer who purchase our products, or our contract manufacturers or the component suppliers to our contract manufacturers, may require us to reduce pricing for our products outside the United States in order to maintain sales and revenue performance, or raise the cost we must pay to our manufacturers for our products, resulting in either case in lower revenue and/or gross margins for those products. We also expect that our revenue and gross margin will fluctuate from period to period depending on the factors described above. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses include the following: Research and Development. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including bonuses, stock-based compensation, recruiting fees and travel expenses for employees engaged in research, design and development activities. Research and development expenses also include costs for prototype-related expenses, product certification, consulting services, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. We believe that continued investment in research and development is important to attaining our strategic objectives. Over time, we expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in the development of our products and services. Our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our research and development expenses. Sales and Marketing. Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including commission costs, stock-based compensation, recruiting fees and travel expenses for employees engaged in sales and marketing activities. Commission expenses have historically been based on completed contracts, which might not match with revenue recognized in the same period. In the first quarter of 2016, we voluntarily changed our accounting policy for sales commissions to defer the sales commission in proportion to the same period that the revenue is recognized (See Note 1 of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for more information about our accounting policy for sales commissions.) Sales and marketing expenses also include the cost of trade shows, marketing programs, promotional materials, demonstration equipment, consulting services, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. Over time, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we increase the size of our sales and marketing organization, expand into new markets and further develop our channel program. Our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our sales and marketing expenses. General and Administrative. Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including bonuses, stock-based compensation and travel expenses for our executive, finance, human resources, legal and operations employees, as well as compensation for our board of directors. General and administrative expenses also include fees for outside consulting, legal, audit, investor relations, and accounting service and insurance, as well as depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. As a public company we also have experienced increased litigation, relating both to intellectual property claims of others as well as securities claims brought by certain of our stockholders. Defending and resolving these claims, including under indemnity commitments we have made to third parties, has imposed costs on us. Over time, we expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars due to the additional legal, accounting, insurance, investor relations, information technology and other costs that we will continue to incur as a public company, as well as other costs associated with growing our business. Our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our general and administrative expenses. 25 Interest Income Our interest income primarily consists of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalent and short-term investments. We have invested our cash in money-market funds and other short-term, high quality investments. Historically, our interest income has not been material. Interest Expense Our interest expense consists primarily of interest on our indebtedness. See Note 4 of our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for more information about our debt. Other Income (Expense), Net Our other income (expense), net primarily consists of gains and losses from foreign currency exchange transactions that historically have not been material. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes consists primarily of foreign tax expense due to our cost-plus agreements with our foreign entities, which guarantee foreign entities a profit, and to a lesser extent federal and state income tax expense. As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, we maintained a valuation allowance against our domestic deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards and research and development and other tax credits. 26 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented in dollars (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Revenue: Product $ 32,456 $ 20,480 Software subscription and services 7,672 5,337 Total revenue 40,128 25,817 Cost of revenue (1) : Product 10,439 6,808 Software subscription and services 2,903 1,828 Total cost of revenue 13,342 8,636 Gross profit 26,786 17,181 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 10,210 7,510 Sales and marketing (1) 21,068 18,495 General and administrative (1) 7,895 6,247 Operating loss (12,387 ) (15,071 ) Interest income 119 14 Interest expense (126 ) (754 ) Other income (expense), net 16 135 Loss before income taxes (12,378 ) (15,676 ) Income tax provision (145 ) (108 ) Net loss $ (12,523 ) $ (15,784 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 272 $ 165 Research and development 1,345 986 Sales and marketing 1,768 1,497 General and administrative 1,511 1,174 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 4,896 $ 3,822 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented as a percentage of our total revenue: 27 Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Revenue: Product 81 % 79 % Software subscription and services 19 21 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue: Product 26 26 Software subscription and services 7 7 Total cost of revenue 33 33 Gross profit 67 67 Operating expenses: Research and development 25 29 Sales and marketing 53 72 General and administrative 20 24 Operating loss (31 ) (58 ) Interest income Interest expense (3 ) Other income (expense), net Loss before income taxes (31 ) (61 ) Income tax provision Net loss (31 )% (61 )% 28 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenues: Product $ 32,456 $ 20,480 $ 11,976 58 % Software subscription and services 7,672 5,337 2,335 44 % Total revenue $ 40,128 $ 25,817 $ 14,311 55 % Percentage of revenues: Product 81 % 79 % Software subscription and services 19 % 21 % Total 100 % 100 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue by geographic region: Americas $ 24,360 $ 14,093 $ 10,267 73 % EMEA 12,014 9,126 2,888 32 % APAC 3,754 2,598 1,156 44 % Total revenue $ 40,128 $ 25,817 $ 14,311 55 % Percentage of revenue by geographic region: Americas 61 % 55 % EMEA 30 % 35 % APAC 9 % 10 % Total 100 % 100 % Revenue increased $14.3 million , or 55% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared with three months ended March 31, 2015, due to the increasing demand for our products and software subscription and services offerings. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, revenue was primarily impacted due to a pause in demand in U.S. education business due to various aspects and timing of the Federal E-Rate program. The increase in our product revenue was primarily the result of an aggregate increase in product unit shipments largely driven by sales of our intelligent Wi-Fi access points. The increase in our software subscription and services revenue of $2.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared with the three months ended March 31, 2015, was primarily driven by the increase in sales of PCS and SaaS, including our HiveManager NG cloud management platform, in connection with increased sales of products and an increase in the number of our end-customers, and our recognition of deferred revenue in the period. The Americas and EMEA accounted for the majority of our total revenue, and the increase of revenue in both regions was primarily due to increased demand for our products in these regions. Our total number of end-customers increased from approximately 20,000 as of March 31, 2015 to approximately 25,000 as of March 31, 2016. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin 29 Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues: Product $ 10,439 $ 6,808 $ 3,631 53 % Software subscription and services 2,903 1,828 1,075 59 % Total cost of revenues $ 13,342 $ 8,636 $ 4,706 54 % Gross margin: Product 67.8 % 66.8 % Software subscription and services 62.2 % 65.7 % Total gross margin 66.8 % 66.5 % We primarily attribute the increase in our cost of product revenue to an increase in sales of our products. We primarily relate the increase in our cost of software subscription and services revenue to an increase in cloud operations and support personnel headcount as well as the amortization of our capitalized cloud service platform. The increase of our product gross margin was primarily due to the product mix. The decrease in our software subscription and services gross margin was primarily due to the amortization of our capitalized cloud service platform, offset by higher growth in our software subscription and services revenue than our related cost of delivering these software subscription and services. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 10,210 $ 7,510 $ 2,700 36 % % of revenue 25 % 29 % The increase in our research and development expenses was primarily due to an increase of $2.6 million personnel and related costs, including stock-based compensation expense of $0.4 million, driven by our increased research and development headcount to support continued investment in our future product and service offerings, and a $1.5 million higher capitalized personnel and related costs, including wages, bonuses and stock-based compensation, for development of our cloud services platform in the three months ended March 31, 2015. In April 2015, we completed and launched HiveManager NG, our cloud services platform and began to amortize the capitalized development costs as part of the cost of software subscription and services, over an estimated useful life of five years. We expect our research and development costs to continue to increase over time in absolute dollars, as we continue to invest in developing new products and new versions of our existing products. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 21,068 $ 18,495 $ 2,573 14 % % of revenue 53 % 72 % The increase in our sales and marketing expenses was primarily due to increases in personnel and related costs of $2.4 million, including increased headcount, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and higher commissions. Our sales and marketing expenses also increased due to higher marketing program expenses and increases in our other sales and marketing related activities. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase over time in absolute dollars as we continue to add sales personnel and continue marketing programs. General and Administrative 30 Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 7,895 $ 6,247 $ 1,648 26 % % of revenue 20 % 24 % The increase in our general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increases in litigation settlement expense of $1.2 million, primarily due to our class action complaint related to our Form S-1 filing, and stock-based compensation expense of $0.3 million. We expect that general and administrative expenses will continue to increase over time in absolute dollars due primarily to costs associated with being a public company and to support the growth in our business. Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest expense $ (126 ) $ (754 ) $ 628 (83 )% Interest expense primarily consisted of interest expense from our loan credit facilities. The decrease in our interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was primarily due to the repayment of outstanding obligations under TriplePoint Capital LLC term loan credit facility in the first quarter of 2015, partially offset by additional borrowing from Silicon Valley Bank under the revolving credit facility as the interest rate is lower under the Silicon Valley Bank revolving credit facility than the former TriplePoint Capital LLC term loan credit facility. See Note 4 of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for more information about our debt. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 16 $ 135 $ (119 ) (88 )% The change in our other income (expense), net was not significant. 31 Liquidity and Capital Resources Capital Resources As of March 31, 2016 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $41.4 million and short-term investments of $44.8 million . $84.7 million of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were held within the United States. As of March 31, 2016, we had $20.0 million of outstanding debt, under our revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank, and we were in compliance with all covenants under our loan agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our spending to support our research and development efforts, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced product and service offerings, the costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity, and the level of market acceptance of our products. However, we may be required to raise additional funds in the future through public or private debt or equity financing to meet additional working capital requirements. We cannot assure our stockholders that this additional financing will be available to us or, if available, will be on reasonable terms and not dilutive to our stockholders. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (3,322 ) $ (2,940 ) Net cash used in investing activities (43 ) (2,241 ) Net cash used in financing activities (988 ) (203 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (4,353 ) $ (5,384 ) Operating Activities We recently demonstrated positive cash flow in our third and fourth quarters of our fiscal 2015. However, we have historically experienced negative cash flows from operating activities as we continue to invest in our business, which we again experienced in our first quarter of fiscal 2016. Our largest uses of cash from operating activities is for employee-related expenditures and purchases of finished products from our contract manufacturers. Our primary source of cash flows from operating activities is cash receipts from our channel partners. Our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be affected principally by the extent to which we grow our total revenue and our operating expenses, primarily in our sales and marketing and research and development functions, in order to grow our business. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, operating activities used $3.3 million of cash as a result of our net loss of $12.5 million , partially offset by non-cash charges of $5.9 million and a net change of $3.3 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $4.9 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $0.9 million . The net change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $1.9 million decrease in accounts receivable, $1.0 million increase in deferred revenue as a result of an increase in sales of PCS and SaaS and an increase of $5.7 million in accrued liabilities, partially offset by an increase of $3.6 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets, increase of $0.7 million in cash used for inventory purchases, $0.7 million decrease in accounts payable and $0.4 million increase in other assets. Our days sales outstanding, or DSO, was 47 days for the three months ended March 31, 2016, which we calculate by dividing net accounts receivable at the end of the quarter by revenue recognized during the quarter, multiplied by the total days in the quarter. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, operating activities used $2.9 million of cash as a result of our net loss of $15.8 million , partially offset by non-cash charges of $4.7 million and a net change of $8.1 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $3.8 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $0.6 million. The net change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $7.1 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $2.5 million increase in accounts payable, and a $1.7 million increase in deferred revenue as a result of an increase in sales of PCS and SaaS, partially offset by an increase of $3.0 million in cash used for inventory purchases. Our DSO, was 61 days for the three months ended March 31, 2015. 32 Investing Activities Our investing activities have primarily consisted of purchases of property and equipment, capitalized internal-developed software for our cloud service platform, and purchases and sales of marketable securities . For the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to purchases and sales of marketable securities of $2.4 million and $4.2 million , respectively, cash used to purchase investment in a privately held company of $1.5 million and purchases of property and equipment of $0.3 million , relating primarily to manufacturing, research and development lab equipment. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, cash used in investing activities was $2.2 million, primarily attributable to capitalization of internal software development costs for development of our internal-developed software for our cloud service platform of $1.8 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $0.5 million, relating primarily to manufacturing, research and development lab equipment and purchased software. The capitalization of internal software development costs for our cloud service platform represents personnel and related costs including wages and bonuses. We started to capitalize costs for the development from December 2013. In April 2015, we completed and launched HiveManager NG, our cloud service platform, and started to amortize the capitalized costs as part of the cost of software subscription and services, over an estimated useful life of five years. Financing Activities Our financing activities have primarily consisted of issuance of debt, proceeds from exercises of stock options and proceeds from employee stock purchase plan, and repurchase of treasury shares. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, financing activities used $1.0 million of cash, primarily as a result of a $0.8 million cash used for repurchase of treasury shares, $0.3 million cash used for tax withholdings on vesting of restricted stock units, offset by $0.1 million in proceeds from exercise of stock options. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, financing activities used $0.2 million of cash, primarily as a result of $0.3 million in proceeds from exercises of stock options, offset by $0.5 million cash we used for tax withholdings on vesting of restricted stock units. As of March 31, 2015, we paid-off in full the $10.0 million outstanding under our term loans with TriplePoint Capital LLC and borrowed an additional $10.0 million, for a total of $20.0 million, under our revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank. Debt Obligations In June 2012, we entered into a revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank. Our revolving credit facility is collateralized by substantially all of our property, other than our intellectual property. Prior to March 31, 2015, the revolving credit facility bore monthly interest at a floating rate equal to the greater of (i) 4.00% or (ii) prime rate plus 0.75%. By amendment in March 2015, interest on the credit facility was adjusted as of March 31, 2015 to a floating rate equal to the lesser of (i) LIBOR rate plus 2.25% or (ii) prime rate minus 0.5%. In November 2015, we further amended the revolving credit facility to revise the floating interest rate to the lesser of (i) LIBOR rate plus 1.75% or (ii) prime rate minus 1.0%, which is effective January 1, 2016. The weighted average interest rate of the revolving credit facility was 2.79% and 3.96%, for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The revolving credit facility currently provides, among other things, (i) a maturity date of March 31, 2017; and (ii) a revolving line up to $20.0 million, subject to certain conditions. The revolving credit facility contains customary negative covenants which, unless approved by SVB, limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, make investments, repurchase stock, pay dividends, transfer assets and merge or consolidate, as well as requires us to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio of 1.25 to 1.00 as of the last day of each month and to demonstrate minimum cash balances in order to have access to the available borrowing. The revolving credit facility also contains customary events of default, subject to customary cure periods for certain defaults, that include, among other things, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, material judgment defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, cross-defaults to certain other material indebtedness, and defaults arising from inaccuracy of representation and warranties. Upon an event of default, the lenders may declare all or a portion of the outstanding obligations payable by us to be immediately due and payable and exercise other rights and remedies provided under the credit facility. During the existence of an event of default, interest on the obligations under the credit facility could be increased by 5.0%. As of March 31, 2016, $20.0 million remains outstanding under the revolving credit facility and we were in compliance with these covenants. 33 We have been using the amount drawn under the revolving credit facility for working capital and general corporate purposes. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Through March 31, 2016 , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We have entered into agreements with some of our end-customers that contain indemnification provisions in the event of claims alleging that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party. Under these agreements, we have, at our option and expense, the ability to resolve any infringement, replace our product with a non-infringing product that is equivalent-in-function, or refund the customers the total product price. Other guarantees or indemnification arrangements include guarantees of product and service performance. We have not recorded a liability related to these indemnification and guarantee provisions and our guarantees and indemnification arrangements have not had any impact on our consolidated financial statements to date.