Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words believe, will, may, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, expect, predict, could, potentially and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to predict our revenue, operating results and gross margin accurately; our ability to predict economic, political and business conditions in the markets in which we operate; our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth and achieve and maintain profitability; our ability to transition to new product offerings while maintaining our service level commitments to end-customers; the length and unpredictability of our sales cycles with service provider end-customers; any potential loss of or reductions in orders from our larger customers; our ability to maximize the economic opportunity of the U.S. Federal Communications Commissions (FCC) E-Rate program; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete with larger competitors with greater financial, technical and other resources; our ability to continue to enhance and broaden our product offering; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand; our ability to effectively manage our growth; our ability to attract new end-customers within the verticals and geographies we currently operate in and those that we target; our ability to maintain effective internal controls; the quality of our products and services; our ability to continue to build and enhance relationships with channel partners; our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified employees and key personnel, particularly in sales and engineering; our ability to maximize our sales execution process and effectively ramp sales in underdeveloped territories; our ability to sell our products and effectively expand internationally; the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates; our ability to protect our intellectual property; claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others; and other risk factors included under the section titled Risk Factors. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this report and current expectations, forecasts and assumptions are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report and, in particular, the risks discussed under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date, and we are under no obligation to, and expressly disclaim any responsibility to, update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Aerohive Networks, Inc. and together with its subsidiaries (Aerohive Networks, Aerohive, Company, we, us, and our) has designed and developed a leading cloud-managed mobile networking platform that enables enterprises to use the power of mobility and Wi-Fi to deploy a mobile-centric network edge. Our products include intelligent access points, routers and switches. We manage these products through our cloud services platform, which delivers cloud-managed network management and mobility applications giving end-customers a single, unified and contextual view of the entire network edge. Our Platform Our platform leverages the power of the cloud and of our distributed, controller-less architecture to deliver unified, intelligent, simplified networks that can be cost-effectively deployed. Our scalable and flexible platform makes enterprise-class wireless available to enterprises regardless of their level of IT resources and enables a consistent network architecture to be deployed across enterprises of all sizes. Our platform delivers the following key benefits to customers: Simplicity of one architecture. Our platform provides a single architecture across our entire wired and wireless portfolio that scales to support all deployment scenarios, from small deployments with fewer than ten access points to enterprise-wide deployments of 10,000 or more access points. Lower cost to deploy. Our distributed, controller-less architecture eliminates the need for costly controllers and delivers significant capital and operating expense cost savings. Scalability. Our platform is highly scalable. By eliminating the controller and its resulting requirement to purchase capacity in fixed units and by leveraging our cloud management capabilities, our end-customers can scale deployments linearly as their needs grow. Ease of deployment and management by leveraging the cloud. Our platform eases the deployment of the services and applications that deliver the mobile-centric network edge by leveraging the cloud. Context-based visibility and control. Our platform gives customers the ability to see network usage and apply network policy based on granular, data-rich context, providing a high level of intelligence to the network. Robust security enforcement at the edge. Our platform enforces robust security policy at the network edge instead of at a centralized controller, which reduces the need for customers to choose between security, performance and cost effectiveness. Unification of wired and wireless networks. Our platform unifies management across wired, wireless and client devices allowing consistent context-based policy to be applied across the infrastructure and providing a unified and contextual view of the mobile-centric network edge. Reduced operating cost and complexity. The unification and simplification provided by our software eases administration and ongoing operating cost. Technology We have developed an approach for delivering enterprise mobility that combines the scale, simplicity, and economies of the cloud with the distributed intelligence of our proprietary mobility-optimized network operating system. Our cloud-managed mobile networking platform consists of three elements: our cloud services platform, our HiveOS operating system, and our portfolio of hardware products. By combining cloud management with distributed intelligence, we can deliver an auto-discovering, self-organizing, and self-healing network system that shares information among its members. When Aerohive hardware products are connected to a network they communicate over wired and wireless interfaces to auto-discover other Aerohive products, and initiate communications to establish a group, or Hive. The Aerohive products that are configured to be part of the same Hive will share information about physical and logical network topology, neighboring products, device connections and Radio Frequency environment, or RF environment, to enable the products to self-organize into a coordinated network system that enables mobile networking. The members of the Hive will regularly communicate to the other members of the Hive to allow for seamless mobility, re-optimization of the network and system reconfiguration enabling self-healing in the event of a failure of part of the Hive. This eliminates the need for dedicated controllers, and is easy to provision and centrally administer. This distributed approach mirrors the architecture of traditional switching and routing infrastructures, which allows Aerohive to employ a single, scalable, highly reliable and cost-effective architecture across our portfolio. Cloud Services Platform. Our cloud services platform enables easy deployment of our products and delivers cloud-based network management and mobility applications that enable a single, unified and contextual view of the mobile-centric network edge. The platform is built on a number of significant technologies in both the underlying infrastructure and in the applications delivered on that infrastructure. Application-level technologies include: Single, integrated network management application and console used for configuration, monitoring, troubleshooting, and reporting. Policy-based network management that enables network and user policies to be defined and applied across complex, heterogeneous networks. The technology simplifies administration by abstracting policy configuration from the underlying network configuration and translating policy changes into unique network configurations based on differences in location, product type or attribute tag. Multi-tenant, role-based administration that enables granular admin control by function, location and policy. Cloud-based authentication infrastructure that is built on RADIUS, or a Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service, which is a widely deployed authentication and authorization protocol to securely allow access on to a network, and RADsec, which is a more secure version of the RADIUS protocol, and is integrated with SMS providers to enable creation and distribution of credentials for users and guests in an efficient, closed-loop process. Cloud-based certificate authority that simplifies and automates the creation and distribution of certificates to our HiveOS-based products and to client devices to enable dramatically easier secure, certificate-based, authentication. Cloud-based client management service that interfaces with Apple Push Notification Services to enable simplified client device management. HyperText Markup Language (HTML) 5-based user interface enabling management from mobile devices. Context-based and widget-based dashboard allowing flexible, context-based visualization of network usage and state. Application Program Interfaces (APIs) to integrate with third-party cloud products and access the management and operational data collected by our products. Infrastructure-level technologies include: Multi-version account migration technology that enables multiple versions of our software to be supported simultaneously in the cloud and allows end-customers to upgrade on-demand between different versions, giving end-customers the feature stability of on premise software with the ease of upgrade of the cloud. An extended implementation of the Control and Provisioning of Wireless Access Points (CAPWAP) protocol that enables scalable, secure, reliable, and efficient connections from our HiveOS-based products to our cloud, eliminating the need to set up a management network virtual private network (VPN) and minimizing the need to modify firewall rules through the use of firewall traversal techniques. Cloud-based licensing and provisioning systems that integrate into Aerohives business systems and provide interfaces to channel partners to enable zero-touch provisioning of products as they are delivered from Aerohive or from partner stock; zero-touch provisioning is the ability to deploy Aerohive devices without the need to preconfigure the device before shipping it to a location and without sending a technician on site to configure the device. Single sign-on infrastructure that provides end-customers with easy access to multiple cloud accounts and applications and facilitates activation of new services. Provisioning, monitoring, security and disaster recovery technologies to facilitate deployment and operation of our cloud services platform across the multiple instances we operate utilizing cloud infrastructure run out of SAS70 Type II certified datacenters. HiveOS . Our mobility-optimized network operating system implements a suite of proprietary cooperative control protocols and policy enforcement engines that together eliminate the need for costly wireless LAN controllers, while delivering seamless mobility and context-based policy control. Because of the distributed intelligence of HiveOS, losing connectivity to HiveManager does not affect control or data forwarding features of Aerohive devices. The primary functions of HiveOS include: Network services: HiveOS provides a number of embedded network services to simplify deployment and allow advanced functionality to be provisioned in the enterprise where it is needed. Our extended implementation of CAPWAP allows secure, scalable connections to our cloud services platform. Our Captive Web Portal, or CWP, is a flexible, cloud-managed web server that can be configured to onboard devices, authenticate users, or present custom messages such as advertisements as users join the network. Advanced authentication for user-based networking is enabled by native integration into ActiveDirectory or other Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)-based directories and through an onboard RADIUS server allowing for local authentication and credential caching to improve remote office survivability. Cooperative control. Cooperative control is a suite of control-plane protocols that distribute HiveOS device and client state information between Hive members (Aerohive network devices running HiveOS) allowing the Hive to act as a coordinated system in a similar way that dynamic routing protocols operate between routers in the Internet. These protocols enable the creation of auto-discovering, self-organizing and self-healing networks with distributed Radio Resource Management, or RRM, capabilities including radio channel selection, AP transmit power definition, band steering, and client load balancing. Cooperative control can deliver a seamless user experience and application continuity as users move across buildings or campuses. This is accomplished with context-aware, fast and secure roaming across the enterprise, agnostic of the underlying enterprise network configuration. Distributed policy enforcement . HiveOS is able to enforce granular quality of service (QoS), security, and access policies at the network edge based on the end users context. Policies can be applied based on the combination of the application being used, user identity and role, device type and ownership, location and time of day. HiveOS can either enforce context-based policy locally, or have it communicated to other Aerohive enforcement points using Cooperative Control or to non-Aerohive devices through standards based packet marking, syslog or APIs. Best -path forwarding . After the local enforcement of QoS, security and access policies, scalable routing protocols forward traffic across both wireless mesh, wired and VPN connections. Traffic is securely forwarded via the highest performance and most available path in the network. Identity and context of the traffic can also be used to route traffic based on the existing network state and demands. Portfolio of hardware products. Our hardware products include indoor and outdoor access points, branch routers and access switches. Our hardware products leverage the latest commercially available and economically viable Wi-Fi radios, network processors, crypto accelerators and switching chips to optimize the performance of HiveOS and scale the distributed intelligence of our system. Products Our product portfolio includes our hardware products, cloud-based network management and applications, and support services. Our hardware products include access points, branch routers and access switches. Some of our access switches and our access points can also function as branch routers to consolidate and simplify branch deployments. Our hardware products are developed by our hardware design team working in conjunction with original design manufacturer (ODM) partners, and leverage the latest commercially available and economically viable Wi-Fi radios, network processors, crypto accelerators and switching chips. All of our hardware products run on our HiveOS operating system, which provides the foundation for our networking platform. Our cloud-based product offering includes HiveManager, a unified network management system, and our Mobility Suite, which includes our ID Manager, Client Management and Social Login applications. HiveManager enables end-customers and partners to create, deploy and manage unified wired and wireless policies across their entire network. HiveManager offers real-time topology, performance and client information to simplify troubleshooting, capacity planning and security remediation of network applications. We sell and deliver HiveManager as a public cloud, an on-premise private cloud solution, or physical appliance, but all deployment options leverage the benefits of the cloud. ID Manager is a cloud-based guest and user management application that automates and simplifies the deployment and maintenance of enterprise guest and user management. Our ID Manager delivers scalable, enterprise guest management that streamlines the onboarding guests without requiring additional hardware or software. ID Manager can be deployed to support a single site or a globally distributed, multi-lingual company through our cloud services platform. Client Management is a cloud-based mobile device management application that enables device configuration, management, and monitoring with policy-based network access and an employee self-service portal to enable Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) programs. Social Login is a cloud-based application that allows retailers and other organizations to enable Wi-Fi users to get access to their Wi-Fi network using their existing FaceBook, Twitter, LinkedIn, or Google+ credentials, which allows these organizations to capture demographic information on their Wi-Fi users to support marketing activities. Our VPN Gateway is a version of our HiveOS software sold as a virtual appliance to terminate VPN tunnels from thousands of remote routers and access points. We offer tiered maintenance and support services under renewable, fee-based maintenance and support contracts, which include technical support, bug fixes, access to priority hardware replacement service and unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if available basis. Our Software as a Service (SaaS) subscriptions include comparable maintenance and support services. Customers We added over 6,000 new end-customers during the year ended December 31, 2014, and over 1,500 new end-customers during the quarter ended December 31, 2014, bringing our total end-customer count to more than 19,000 in over 40 countries as of December 31, 2014. We define end-customers as holding or having held licenses to our products and software subscriptions and services. Our end-customers represent a broad range of industry verticals, including K-12 and higher education, healthcare, retail and distributed enterprises. We sell through a network of authorized resellers and distributors and managed service providers. Exclusive Networks controls a consolidated group of individual group companies, each of which is a separate VAD for us and collectively accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014. Segment and Geographic Information We operate one reporting segment and operating segment structure. Financial information about our operating segment and our revenues from VARs and VADs geographic areas are presented in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Backlog We define backlog as complete purchase orders that have been received by us by the end of a period from our value-added resellers (VARs) and value-added distributors (VADs) for products and related services that have not shipped as of the end of the period. Product and related services are generally shipped and billed shortly after receipt of an order. However, orders may be rescheduled by our partners without penalty or delayed due to inventory constraints. Additionally, the majority of our product revenue comes from orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter. As such, we do not consider backlog to be firm and do not believe our backlog information is a reliable indicator of our ability to achieve a particular level of revenue or financial performance as of a particular current or future period. Sales Our regional sales organization is responsible for large-account acquisition and overall market development. Our inside sales team supports the regional sales team and focuses on the acquisition of mid-market accounts within the State & Local and Education verticals. Our regional sales organization is being augmented with area sales representatives that will focus on developing mid-market accounts within the Enterprise vertical. Our channel sales team recruits and manages channel partners. The regional, area, inside and channel sales teams work together to build relationships with our channel partners to win and support end-customers through a direct-touch approach, also acting as the liaison between the end-customers and our marketing and product development organizations. Our sales organization is supported by sales engineers and inside sales engineers with deep technical expertise and responsibility for pre-sales technical support, solutions engineering for our end-customers, and technical training for our channel partners. We expect to continue to grow our sales headcount in our principal markets and to expand our presence into countries where we currently do not have a direct sales presence. We work with channel partners to provide our platform to end-customers. We focus on building comprehensive relationships with solutions-oriented partners who are recognized as having strong networking and Wi-Fi expertise. As of December 31, 2014, we had 680 channel partners under contract with which we have direct relationships, who are supported by our sales, channel, sales engineering and marketing organization. Sales to these channel partners are subject to our standard, non-exclusive distributor or reseller agreements, which provide for an initial term of one to three years and one-year renewal terms based on compliance with our program requirements. We operate a formal accreditation program for our channel partners sales and technical professionals. VARs and VADs work together on a non-exclusive basis to market our platform, identify and close sales opportunities and provide pre-sales and post-sales services to our end-customers. Our channel partner program rewards our channel partners based on a number of attainment goals, and provides them access to marketing funds, technical and sales training and support. We are also expanding our channel presence increasingly through relationships with managed service providers, who bundle our product and service offerings with their own infrastructure managed and services tailored to a particular vertical or implementation. Research and Development Continued investment in research and development is critical to our business. To this end, we have assembled a team of engineers with expertise in various fields, including networking platforms, cloud operations and applications, security systems, RF functions, user interface design and open source programming. Our research and development efforts are focused in Sunnyvale, California and Hangzhou, China. We have invested significant time and financial resources in the development of our products, including our cloud services platform and our HiveOS software platform. We view continued investment in these capabilities as essential to our ability to differentiate ourselves in a competitive industry and to continue to be able to grow our business. For example, we are developing additional software modules to enhance the functionality and performance of our cloud services platform and HiveOS operating software. For example, we are developing a next-generation cloud services platform which will provide a basis for data services and data analytic applications, as well as additional software modules to enhance the functionality and performance of our HiveOS operating software. We also have announced our personal engagement platform, a portfolio of solutions that offers retailers opportunities to engage customers and better understand buying behaviors, and launched our mobility suite, providing a set of software solutions for BYOD, guest access, client management and integration of mobile device management systems. We plan to continue to expand our product offerings and solutions capabilities in the future and plan to continue to dedicate significant resources to these research and development efforts. Manufacturing We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware products to ODMs. We believe that using design manufacturers helps to optimize our operations by lowering costs, reducing time-to-market and enabling us to adjust to changing end-customer demand. Our products are manufactured in China and Taiwan. Finished products are then shipped to a warehousing and delivery logistics center in California, where we perform quality inspection, conduct reliability testing and manage our inventory. We operate this logistics center for all end-customer shipments, whether destined to locations in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) or Asia Pacific and Japan (APAC). Our manufacturing partners procure components and assemble our products based on our demand forecasts. These forecasts represent our estimates at the time of future demand for our products, based upon historical trends and the assessment of our sales and product management functions of end-customer demand and overall market conditions. Our ODMs source the component parts within our products. We do not contract directly and do not have any long-term manufacturing contracts that guarantee us any fixed access to such component parts or specific pricing. This absence of direct and long-term component supply contracts may increase our exposure to shortages of component availability and to price fluctuations related to the raw material inputs for such components. In addition, if our design manufacturers experience interruptions in their business or manufacturing operations, quality control problems, or delays or disruptions in their access to component parts, including a change in their suppliers, this could adversely affect the timely delivery to us of finished products. Our ability then to ship products to our end-customers on a timely basis and consistent with our contractual commitments could be delayed and our business adversely affected. We are in the process of consolidating our manufacturing with our key manufacturers, and renegotiating those contractual relationships, to provide for longer termination notices and transition terms in the event we or they terminate our manufacturing relationship. By concentrating our purchasing across a small number of manufacturers, we hope to increase our relative position and the significance of our relationships with those manufacturers. Our failure to secure these long-term agreements, at all or on terms we believe would be commercially reasonable, could create risk that the current relationships could be terminated without sufficient notice to us or a reasonable basis to transition our product manufacturing to a new design manufacturer, which could have an adverse effect on our businesses. Competition Trends in enterprise mobility, including the proliferation of mobile devices, increased BYOD utilization, enterprise adoption of cloud and the adoption of mobile-first applications are all significantly increasing the importance of wireless inside the enterprise. The principal competitive factors in our market include: ability to address specific customer deployment requirements; flexibility and feature depth of solutions; ease of use and simplicity of solutions; price and total cost of ownership; performance and scalability of products; network survivability and reliability of solutions; and security of the network. We believe that we generally compete favorably on the basis of all of these factors. However, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger sales and marketing budgets, broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers and larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios which provide a greater ability to assemble different capabilities across an integrated product platform. We operate in a competitive market for enterprise mobility and network edge infrastructure, which has experienced high growth and constant change. Our competitors fall into three main groups: General networking vendors, such as Cisco and Hewlett-Packard, whose portfolios include enterprise mobility solutions; Enterprise mobility companies, such as Aruba Networks, that have a broad networking portfolio and are primarily focused on enterprise mobility; and Independent Wi-Fi vendors, such as Ruckus Wireless and Meru Networks, which are primarily focused on wireless access products. We may also face competition from small private companies and new market entrants. Seasonality See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information regarding seasonality of our business. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. We rely on patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2014, we had 13 issued patents and 36 patent applications pending in the United States relating to our current and next-generation networking products, operating platform and cloud-based applications, and the ability to claim priority to most of the patent applications worldwide. Our first issued patents begin to expire in 2028. We cannot assure whether any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the application process will require us to narrow our claims. Any patents that may be issued may subsequently be subject to re-examination, contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may or may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing them. We license software from third parties for integration into our products, including open source software. We believe our licenses are on commercially reasonable terms. We utilize internal and external controls to restrict access to and use of our proprietary software and other confidential information, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, end-customers and channel partners. Our software is also protected by U.S. and international copyright laws. Despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets and proprietary rights through intellectual property rights, licenses and confidentiality agreements, third parties may still copy our products or otherwise obtain and use our software and technology without our knowledge or authority or in ways we do not intend. In addition, as we expand our international operations, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection in foreign countries may not be available or may be of limited value. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, and competitors increasingly may utilize litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights to protect or expand their market position. In particular, leading and more mature companies in the wireless networking industry have extensive patent portfolios and are regularly involved in both offensive and defensive litigation. From time-to-time, third parties, including certain of these leading companies and, increasingly, non-operating entities, may assert patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our end-customers. In these instances, our standard license and other agreements may obligate us to indemnify our channel partners and end-customers against such claims. Successful claims of infringement by a third party could prevent us from distributing certain products or performing certain services, require us to expend significant management attention and money to develop non-infringing solutions or force us to pay substantial damages, royalties or other fees. This could include treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights. As end customers increasingly use our products and services, and to the extent that we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims from third parties, including our competitors but also increasingly non-operating entities, who will be more likely to claim that our platform infringes their proprietary rights, or to develop products and services that are similar to ours and that may infringe our proprietary rights. In addition, our products utilize software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, including as incorporated into software we receive from third party commercial software vendors. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software that we use. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release portions of the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This could allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time, and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. We cannot assure that we do not currently infringe, or that we will not in the future infringe, any third-party patents or other proprietary rights, including relating to use of third-party open source software. See Part I, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings and Part I, Item 1A - Risk Factors-Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other rights could harm our business for additional information. Employees As of December 31, 2014, we had 569 employees in offices in the Americas, EMEA and APAC, of which 227 were engaged in sales and marketing, 219 were engaged in research and development, 82 were engaged in general and administrative functions and 41 were engaged in operations. None of our employees is represented by labor unions, whether in the United States or abroad, and we consider all current employee relations to be good. Corporate Information In March 2006, we incorporated our business in the State of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 330 Gibraltar Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94089. Our telephone number at that location is (408) 510-6100. Our website address is www.aerohive.com. Information on our website is not part of this prospectus and should not be relied upon in determining whether to invest in our common stock. We are an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or JOBS Act. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, or (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the prior three year period. Website Posting of SEC Filings Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports are available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practical after they are electronically filed or furnished with the SEC, on our website and can be accessed by clicking on the Company/Investor Relations tab. Further, copies of materials filed by us with the SEC may be read and copied at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. The contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as a part of, this report or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating Aerohive and our business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report, including our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects could be materially harmed. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and we may not achieve profitability in the future. We have a history of losses. We have never achieved profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, and we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. We experienced net losses of $24.7 million , $33.2 million and $30.6 million for fiscal year 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. As of December 31, 2014 , our accumulated deficit was $150.9 million . We expect to continue to incur operating losses as a result of the expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business, including expenditures to hire additional personnel, including personnel relating to sales and marketing, technology development and support. If we fail to increase our revenue and manage our cost structure, we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. As a result, our business and prospects would be harmed. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects and future financial results and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We incorporated our business in 2006 and began commercial shipments of our products in 2007. As a result of our limited operating history, it is difficult for us to forecast our future operating results. Our prospects should be considered and evaluated in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies with only limited operating histories. These risks and difficulties include challenges in accurate financial planning as a result of limited historical data and the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to more mature companies with longer operating histories. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results in any particular period or over an extended period to fall below expectations of investors or analysts. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. In particular, the timing and size of sales of our products and services are highly variable and difficult to predict and can result in significant fluctuations in our revenue from period to period. Other participants in our industry have also experienced these fluctuations. As a result, our future results in any particular period or over any extended period may be difficult for us, our investors and analysts to predict. In addition, our planned expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future revenue. Because any substantial adjustment to expenses to account for lower levels of revenue may be difficult and may take time to implement, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenue, and even a small shortfall in revenue could disproportionately and adversely affect our operating margin, operating results and use of cash for a given quarter. We may choose to maintain levels of investment in areas such as R&D, sales and marketing, despite near-term fluctuations in revenue, in order to position us for continued growth. Our operating results may also fluctuate due to a variety of other factors, many of which are outside of our control, and which we may not foresee including the changing and volatile domestic and international economic environments, and demand for our products in general and from any particular vertical which may be a target market for our products, and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. In addition to other risks listed in this Risk Factors section, factors that may affect our operating results include: fluctuations in demand for our products and services, including seasonal variations, especially in the education vertical where purchasing in the United States is typically strongest in the second and third quarters and weakest in the fourth quarter and where purchasing at any time may depend on the availability of funding, including fluctuations based on government sponsored initiatives, including the timing and availability of funding for schools under the FCCs E-Rate program and the decisions of schools to defer purchases in anticipation of the availability of such funding; the sequential expansion of our operating performance typically from the first quarter to the second quarter, and our ability to sustain that expansion in subsequent quarters; 10 our ability to hire, train, develop, integrate and retain a sufficient number of skilled sales and engineering employees to support our continued growth, including internationally; turn-over of our skilled sales and engineering employees, including internationally; the complexity, length and associated unpredictability of our sales cycles for our products and services; changes in end-customers budgets for technology purchases and delays in their purchasing decisions and cycles; technical challenges in end-customer networks, which may be unrelated to our products, which could delay adoption and installation of our products and purchases of our services; changing market conditions; changes in the competitive dynamics of our target markets, including new entrants, further consolidation and pricing trends; variation in sales channels, product costs, prices or the mix of products we sell; our contract manufacturers and component suppliers ability to meet our product demand forecasts on time, at acceptable prices, or at all; our ability to develop and make more productive relationships with our channel partners and our channel partners ability to effectively distribute our products; the timing of our product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors; our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements, to support and improve such products after introduction, and to anticipate future market demands that meet our end-customers and channel partners requirements; our ability to successfully expand the suite of products we sell and services we offer to existing end-customers and channel partners, to manage the transition of our end-customers to these new products and services and to limit disruption to our end-customers ordering practices and the pricing environment for our legacy products and services; the potential need to record additional inventory reserves for products that may become obsolete or slow moving due to our new product introductions, change in end-customer requirements, new competitive product or service offerings or our over-estimation of demand for such products as of any particular period; our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of the components we purchase while also continuing to invest in sales, marketing, engineering and other activities; any decision we might make to increase or decrease operating expenses in response to changes in the marketplace or perceived marketplace opportunities; growth in our headcount, including hiring related to our status as a public company and hiring to support any future growth in our business, especially skilled sales and engineering employees; volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock compensation expenses or harm our ability to effectively incentivize our employees using stock-based compensation; our ability to derive benefits from our investments in sales, marketing, engineering or other activities; our ability to achieve as of any particular period or over time a level of financial performance consistent with the expectations of our investors and industry analysts; and general economic or political conditions in our domestic and international markets. The effects of these factors individually or in combination could result in unpredictability in our quarterly and annual operating results, our ability to forecast those results and our ability to achieve those forecasts. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. This variability and unpredictability could also result in our failing to meet the expectations of our investors or financial analysts for any period. We may release guidance in our quarterly earnings conference call, quarterly earnings releases, or otherwise, based on predictions of management, which are necessarily speculative in nature. Our guidance may vary materially from actual results. For example, on October 13, 2014, we issued a press release announcing our preliminary results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2014, which were below our previously stated guidance primarily due to weaker than expected order volume. Similarly, on February 11, 2015, we provided a guidance range for revenue for our first quarter ending March 31, 2015, which range was below the estimates of financial analysts at that time. If our revenue or operating results, or the rate of growth of our revenue or operating results fall, below the expectations of our investors or financial analysts, or below any forecasts or guidance we may provide to the market, or if the forecasts we provide to the 11 market are below the expectations of analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Such a stock price decline could occur even when we have met our own or other publicly stated revenue or earnings forecasts. Our failure to meet our own or other publicly stated revenue or earnings forecasts, or even when we meet our own forecasts but fall short or analyst or investor expectations, could cause our stock price to decline and expose us to costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. Such litigation against us could impose substantial costs and divert of our managements attention and resources. The seasonality of our business creates significant variance in our quarterly revenue, which makes it difficult to compare or forecast our financial results on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Our revenue fluctuates on a seasonal basis, which affects the comparability of our results between periods. For example, our total revenue has historically increased significantly in the second quarter compared to the first quarter, primarily due to the impact of increased seasonal demand by end-customers in the education vertical, which has historically carried over into our third quarter. We also historically have seen a sequential increase in our fourth quarter from our third quarter total revenue due to end of year spending by enterprise customers. Our total revenue has historically decreased from our fourth quarter to the first quarter of our next fiscal year, also due to seasonal buying patterns and budget cycles within both our education vertical and general enterprise end-customers. Demand in the education vertical tends to be weakest in the fourth quarter. We also historically have seen a sequential increase in end-of-year purchases by enterprise customers in our fourth quarter, which we believe is mainly due to an expectation to complete purchases within their calendar year budget cycle. These seasonal variations are difficult to predict accurately and at times may be entirely unpredictable. For example, we typically experience sequential expansion of our operating performance from the first quarter to the second quarter, which creates execution and delivery challenges in subsequent quarters. Our ability to sustain that expansion in subsequent quarters, particularly in our less developed sales territories, introduces additional risk into our business and our ability accurately to provide our own publicly stated revenue and earnings forecasts. In addition, we rely upon forecasts of end-customer demand to build inventory in advance of anticipated sales. We believe our past growth has, in part, made our seasonal patterns more difficult to discern, making it more difficult to predict future seasonal patterns. Moreover, part of our strategy is to increase our sales in non-education verticals, and if our sales mix changes the seasonal nature of our revenue may change in an unpredictable way, which could increase the volatility of both our financial results and stock price. The market and demand for our products and services may not develop as we expect. The general demand for wireless networking in the industry verticals that we target, or demand for our products in particular, may grow at a slower rate than we anticipate, or not at all. For example, enterprises may rely more heavily upon cellular connectivity, whose speed and convenience may grow rapidly in coming years, while costs decline. The wireless networking radio spectrum may become more crowded, reducing performance of wireless networking devices. Part of our strategy depends upon expanding sales of our cloud-managed wireless networking, switching and routing products to medium and large enterprise headquarters, branch offices and teleworkers. In addition, we intended to develop our next-generation cloud services platform as a basis for data services and data analytic applications. Sales of such products, services and applications to enterprise end-customers typically require long sales cycles and are subject to price sensitivity. Moreover, many potential end-customers in the enterprise market have substantial network expertise and experience, which may require a more costly and sophisticated marketing and sales strategy. If service providers or enterprises find another technology or application platform superior to our cloud-managed platform, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our target end-customers could discontinue use of wireless networking technology, the use of wireless networking-enabled mobile devices could decrease or wireless networking could cease to be the preferred connectivity option for our target markets. As a result, demand for our products, services and applications may not continue to develop as we anticipate, or at all, and the value of our stock could decline. A significant portion of our sales is concentrated in the education vertical, which may cause us to have longer sales cycles, and be subject to program funding constraints. A significant portion of our revenue is concentrated in the education vertical. The majority of our sales in education is concentrated in both public and private K-12 institutions. This vertical is characterized by long sales cycles and often requires additional sales efforts. In addition, this vertical typically operates on limited budgets, and depends on annual budget approvals, which add additional uncertainty to the sales cycle. For example, the U.S. federal government has announced a program whereby it would provide supplemental funding to local school districts in conjunction with its ConnectEd initiative to assist districts to upgrade their technical infrastructure, including Wi-Fi infrastructure. The announced incremental federal funding is significant and would be available over a five-year period, beginning in the second half of 2015. However, this program, its 12 eligibility criteria, the timing and specific amount of federal funding actually available and which Wi-Fi infrastructure and product sectors will benefit, are uncertain and still subject to final federal program guidelines and funding appropriation. Corresponding funding appropriation by respective states and local districts is also uncertain, and even upon such appropriation local districts must still then submit and have approved applications consistent with the final timing and eligibility requirements of the federal program. We also believe that the prospect of future federal funding has caused some K-12 institutions to delay or defer near-term transactions to purchase our products. For example, we believe that the availability of federal funding later in 2015 under the ConnectEd program caused some K-12 institutions to defer to later in 2015 spending decisions we typically would see in the first and second quarters of 2015, which has impacted our revenue forecasts and created greater uncertainty regarding our operating performance for these periods. These are specific examples of the many factors which add additional uncertainty to our future revenue from our education end-customers. Our sales cycles often require significant time, effort and investment and are subject to risks beyond our control. Our sales efforts can take several quarters, and involve educating our potential customers about the applications and benefits of our products, including the technical capabilities of our products and associated applications and services, and recruiting and developing our channel partners. In our newly developing sales territories we have experienced slower than expected sales growth. As a result we are increasing our investment in these developing territories, which may take significant time and effort in order to realize growth. Sales to the education vertical are an important sales channel for us, and can involve an extended sales cycle. In addition, sales to our enterprise customers may involve an extended sales cycle, and often initial purchases are small. Purchases of our products are also frequently subject to our end-customers budget constraints, multiple approvals, unplanned administrative processing and other risks and delays. Moreover, the evolving nature of the market may lead prospective end-customers to postpone their purchasing decisions pending resolution of wireless networking or other standards, or wait for adoption of technology developed by others. In addition, we pay our sales staff commissions upon receiving orders; however, we typically recognize revenue on products only after the products are shipped to end-customers, or until certain other terms of sales are satisfied. As a result, the cost of obtaining sales, including paying sales commissions, may occur in a fiscal period prior to the fiscal period in which we may recognize revenue from a sale, which may cause additional fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. We need to develop new products and continue to make enhancements to our existing products to remain competitive in a rapidly changing market. The technology and end-customer demands in the wireless networking market change rapidly, which require us to continuously develop and release new products and product features and associated applications and services. We must continuously anticipate and adapt to our end-customers needs and market trends, and continue to develop or acquire new products, applications and services that meet market demands, technology trends and regulatory requirements. If our competitors introduce new products, applications and services that compete with ours, we may be required to reposition our product offerings or introduce new products in response to such competitive pressure. If we fail to develop new products, product enhancements applications or services, or fail to effectively manage the transition of our end-customers to these new products, applications or services, or our end-customers or potential end-customers do not perceive our products, applications or services to have compelling technical advantages, our business and prospects could be adversely affected, particularly if our competitors are able to introduce solutions with increased functionality. Developing our products is challenging and involves substantial commitment of resources and significant development risk. Each phase in our product development presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could impact the timing and cost-effective development of products, and each of which could affect our ability to take advantage of a business opportunity or could jeopardize end-customer acceptance of the product. We have experienced in the past and may in the future experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements. For example, we are currently developing the next versions of our Wi-Fi hardware, cloud services platform, cloud-delivered network management applications, on-premises network management appliance, as well as supporting data structures, analytics, and APIs. Each of these is a complex technical undertaking. In addition, the introduction of new or enhanced products requires that we carefully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customer ordering practices, and ensure that new products can be timely delivered to meet our end-customers demand and to limit inventory obsolescence. Further, after delivery of new products, we may identify and must timely address performance issues as the products are used in the field. If we do not carefully manage the timing of our new products or product feature releases, and effectively support the new products and product feature releases, we could interfere with our end-customers continued purchases of our legacy product offerings and disrupt the pricing environment for our new and legacy products, which could drive down our revenues and operating margins. As a result, we may not be successful in modifying our current products or introducing new products in a timely or appropriately responsive manner, or at all. If we fail to address these changes successfully, our business and operating results and prospects would be materially harmed. In addition, a substantial portion of our research and development efforts is located in Hangzhou, China, subjecting us 13 to risks associated with international development efforts, including increased difficulty overseeing such operations, local, national and international instability, differing labor laws, our ability to protect and prevent competitive misuse of product development efforts, including intellectual property critical to our business, and our ability to train, develop and retain our key personnel. Our gross margin will vary over time and may decline in the future. Our gross margin will vary over time, may be difficult to predict and may decline in future periods. Our gross margins also vary across our product lines and, therefore, a change in the mix of products our end-customers purchase would likely have a significant impact on our gross margins. For example, certain of our lower-end products currently have higher margins than our higher-end products. We may face additional competition for these products, either by introduction of new products by new or existing competitors, or by our end-customers using lower priced products, including our own, which are becoming increasingly more sophisticated. The exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies has strengthened significantly of late, which could require us to reduce pricing for our products outside the U.S. in order to maintain sales and revenue performance, but at lower gross margins for those products. In addition, the market for wireless networking products is characterized by rapid innovation and declining average sales prices as products mature in the market place. Even if we are successful in launching new products, competition may continue to increase in the market segments in which we compete, which would likely result in increased pricing competition. To retain our average margins, we are required to continuously update our products and introduce new products and reduce our manufacturing and sales-related costs and expenses, and we could fail to accomplish this. In addition, the sales prices for our products and services may decline for a variety of reasons, including sales strategy, competitive pricing pressures, customer demand, discounts, a change in our mix of products and services, including seasonal changes in our end-customers ordering practices, anticipation of the introduction of new products or services and decisions by end-customers to defer purchases, or promotional programs. For example, we may introduce new products or offerings at lower price points than competitive offerings or our own legacy offerings to help drive the adoption of our new products and this may adversely affect our revenues and operating margins. Larger competitors with more diverse product and service offerings may reduce the price of products or services that compete with ours or may bundle them with other products and services. If we do not similarly reduce our product manufacturing costs, our margins will decline. Any decline in our gross margins could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. As a result of being a public company, we need to further develop and maintain our internal control over financial reporting. If our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, it may adversely affect investor confidence in our company. We will be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. We are currently compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. For example, in connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012, we identified a material weakness as a result of certain post-closing adjustments with respect to the lack of precision of certain accrued expenses and assessment of our warranty, allowance for bad debt and sales return reserves, and relating to our lack of sufficient personnel in our accounting and financial reporting functions with sufficient experience and expertise with respect to the application of U.S. GAAP and related financial reporting. In connection with the audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, we identified two significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our reliance on incomplete financial information received from one of our distributors and the lack of sufficient precision with respect to certain review-type controls in the financial close and reporting process. While we believe we successfully remediated the material weaknesses and control deficiencies we cannot be certain that similar or other material weaknesses or control deficiencies will not be discovered in the future. If our remediation efforts are not successful or other material weaknesses or control deficiencies occur in the future, we may be unable to report our financial 14 results accurately or on a timely basis, which could cause our reported financial results to be materially misstated and result in the loss of investor confidence or delisting and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls when it is required to do so by the applicable rules, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline, and we may be subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC. We will be required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis. To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal