ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations and involves risks and uncertainties. The words believe, will, may, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, expect, predict, could, potentially and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to predict our revenue, operating results and gross margin accurately; our ability to predict economic, political and business conditions in the markets in which we operate; the transition of newly hired management-level employees and their ability to improve our sales execution processes; our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth and achieve and maintain profitability; our ability to develop and transition to new product offerings while maintaining our service level commitments to end-customers; the length and unpredictability of our sales cycles with service provider end-customers; any potential loss of or reductions in orders from our larger customers; our ability to maximize the economic opportunity of the U.S. Federal Communications Commissions (FCC) E-Rate program and the timing of the availability of funding and decisions by end-customers to purchase our products using such funding; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete with larger competitors with greater financial, technical and other resources; our ability to continue to enhance and broaden our product offering and bring new products to market; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand; our ability to effectively manage our growth; our ability to attract new end-customers within the verticals and geographies we currently operate in and those that we target; our ability to maintain effective internal controls; the quality of our products and services; our ability to continue to build and enhance relationships with channel partners; our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified employees and key personnel, particularly in sales and engineering; our ability to maximize our sales execution process and effectively ramp sales in underdeveloped territories; our ability to sell our products and effectively expand internationally; the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates; our ability to protect our intellectual property; claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others; and other risk factors included under the section titled Risk Factors. 17 These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A and elsewhere in this report. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Overview We have designed and developed a leading cloud-managed mobile networking platform that enables enterprises to deploy a mobile-centric network edge. Managing the network edge is becoming more complex because of the proliferation of mobile devices and the ways in which businesses use such devices. Increasingly, employees and clients are using Wi-Fi-enabled smartphones, tablets, laptops and other mobile devices instead of desktop computers for mission-critical business applications. The number and types of users continue to increase, as do the breadth of applications that users need to access on their mobile device. As the difficulty and complexity of managing the network edge expands, our platform offers simplicity, scalability, and security. Additionally, our platform gives end-customers context-based visibility and policy enforcement, providing a high level of intelligence to the network. Our hardware products include intelligent access points, routers and switches. We continue to develop and bring to market new hardware products in response to evolving customer needs and new technology standards, such as 802.11ac. These products are managed by our cloud services platform which delivers cloud-based network management and mobility applications giving end-customers a single, unified and contextual view of the entire network edge. We continue to invest in our cloud platform, including our next version of the platform that includes an updated user interface, more scalable cloud operations infrastructure, and greater access to the data collected by our devices. We derive revenue by selling our hardware products and related software licenses or software subscription and services, which together comprise our cloud-managed networking platform. Our product revenue consists of revenue from sales of our hardware products, which includes wireless access points, branch routers and switches, all of which are embedded with our proprietary operating system, HiveOS, and perpetual licenses of our unified network management system, HiveManager, and other software applications, as well as related accessories. Our software subscription and services revenue consists of revenue from sales of our service offerings that we deliver over a specified term. These offerings primarily include post-contract customer support, or PCS, related to our perpetual software licenses and subscriptions to HiveManager and other software applications delivered as a service, or SaaS, including related customer support. We sell our products and software subscription and service to our end-customers, who hold the licensees of our products and our software subscription and services. We define end-customers as holding or having held licenses to our products and software subscription and service. When our end-customers purchase hardware products, they are generally required to purchase a software license for every hardware unit, either as a perpetual license with PCS or as a SaaS license with a one-, three- or five-year term. Both our PCS and SaaS offerings include updates and upgrades of our software applications and our HiveOS operating system that is embedded in our hardware. We maintain a field sales force that works to develop sales with our channel partners, which include value-added distributors, or VADs, and value-added resellers, or VARs. Our channel partners purchase our products and services from us at a discount to our list prices and then resell them to our end-customers. Substantially all of our sales within North America are made through VARs. Under this model, we sell our products and services to our VARs, which in turn sell our products and services to our end-customers. We sell to VARs upon identification of a specified end-customer. All of our sales outside of North America, as well as a portion of our sales within North America, are made through VADs. Under this model, we sell our products and services to our VADs, which in turn sell our products and services directly to end-customers or to VARs, which then sell our products and services to our end-customers. We typically sell to VADs upon identification of a specified end-customer. In some cases, however, our VADs purchase inventory from us for stocking and subsequently receive an order from an end-customer. For certain VADs, our agreements allow for stocking of our products in their inventory and provide related price protection or rebates as well as limited rights of return for stock rotation. We also sell through managed service providers, who incorporate our products, customer support and SaaS offerings into their services and support as an integrated offering. In these instances, we view the managed service provider as our end-customer. Due to annual budget cycles in the enterprise and spending seasonality in the education vertical, we generally experience a seasonal sequential decrease in our product revenue in our first fiscal quarter. In the fiscal first quarter ended 18 March 31, 2015, we continued to experience this seasonal trend, where our revenue decreased sequentially by $10.4 million, or 29%, from $36.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2014, and by $2.4 million, or 9%, from $28.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. However, in addition to our normal seasonality, this sequential decrease in revenue was also due to a pause in demand in U.S education business due to the various aspects and timing of the Federal E-Rate program. In addition, we experienced an operational challenge late in the first quarter 2015 with our third party logistics provider and were not able to ship and take revenue in the quarter on all of the orders received and processed. Lastly, we continued to experience lower sales execution in our less-developed sales territories. Beginning in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we began to see a significant change in purchasing behavior by our end-customers in education vertical due to the additional tranches of incremental funding announced by the FCC in December, 2014 and January 2015. We believe this additional funding is leading more schools to be eligible for the E-Rate program, making plans to seek E-Rate funding more widespread than it has been in the past. E-Rate is the commonly used name for the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, which is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The program provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and Internet access. Since any purchases made by schools before April 1, 2015 will not be eligible for E-Rate funding, and direct E-Rate funding will not be made available before July 1, 2015, we believe that our end-customers in the education vertical have been deferring purchases until after March 31, 2015 in order to better position themselves for this E-Rate funding; specifically, end-customers who would place purchases in early 2015 instead are deferring purchases until the second half of 2015. Given our exposure to the education vertical in the US, we believe that this deferral of education spending has had and will continue to have an additional impact on our historical seasonality. We primarily conduct business in three geographic regions: (1) Americas, (2) Europe, the Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and (3) Asia Pacific ("APAC"). From a geographic perspective, year-over-year revenue for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2015 decreased by 19% in the Americas and, 9% in APAC, and increased by 14% in EMEA. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, 55% of our total revenue was generated from Americas, 35% from EMEA and 10% from APAC. We added over 1,300 new end-customers during the quarter, bringing our total end-customer count to more than 20,000 in over 40 countries as of March 31, 2015. Our end-customers totaled more than 19,000, 17,000, 16,000 and 14,000, for our fiscal quarters ended December 31, September 30, June 30 and March 31, 2014, respectively. Our end-customers represent a broad range of industry verticals, including K-12 and higher education, healthcare, retail and distributed enterprises. We outsource the manufacturing of all of our products to contract manufacturers. We currently outsource the warehousing and delivery of our products to a third-party logistics provider for worldwide fulfillment. We perform quality assurance and testing at our third-party logistics provider facilities in Fremont, California. We intend to continue to invest significant resources in the development of our innovative technologies and new product offerings to the marketplace, acquire new end-customers in new and existing geographies, and increase penetration within our existing end-customer base. We expect to continue growing our organization to meet the needs of our customers and to pursue opportunities in new and existing markets. In particular, we are investing to increase our sales capacity as well as our channel program. We increased the number of our employees from 553 employees as of March 31, 2014 to 569 as of December 31, 2014 and to 567 as of March 31, 2015. However, we continue to experience employee attrition, particularly in our sales, marketing and engineering functions, and attracting, ramping, training and retaining qualified personnel and developing sales channels will continue to require significant effort over multiple quarters. For example, we announced in February 2015, the departure of our Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations, and that we had undertaken a search for his replacement. In April, 2015, we announced that Tom Wilburn had joined our company in this position. We expect further turn-over in our sales organization as we transition to new leadership. Instability in our sales function will continue to impact our ability reliably to forecast revenue from quarter to quarter and to achieve operating results consistent with those forecasts. In addition, we also announced in April 2015 a new relationship with Dell Inc., whereby Dell will become a reseller of Aerohives Wi-Fi and cloud service and that the two companies expect to work together to execute their shared vision of cloud-managed IT to provide simplified and streamlined operations, configuration, monitoring and troubleshooting for customers networks. To support this new relationship, we will need to identify and invest in additional and dedicated resources and, potentially, new product, service and support offerings, which could distract managements attention and divert existing resources from our current business. Also, there is no assurance that this relationship, or others we may pursue, will identify significant or new market opportunities or growth incremental to our existing business. 19 Due to our continuing investments to grow our business, including internationally, in advance of and in preparation for, our expected increase in sales and expansion of our customer base, we are continuing to incur expenses in the near term. As a result, we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future and our use of cash over this period could also be greater and extend over a longer period as we make investments in areas of our operations, such as sales, marketing and research and development, which we feel may promote growth and profitability over the long term. We believe that over the long term, we will be able to leverage these investments in the form of a higher revenue growth rate compared to the growth rate of our operating expenses. However, we may not in fact realize any long-term benefit from these investments. Opportunities and Challenges We believe that the growth of our business and our future success depend upon many factors, including our ability to continue to develop innovative technologies and timely provide new product offerings to the marketplace; stabilize and improve performance of our sales function, in particular in our less developed territories; increase our sales capacity and develop our channel; acquire new end-customers, both in the geographies in which we currently operate as well as in new geographies; and expand our end-customer base increase penetration within our existing end-customer base (including through new product offerings). We operate in the highly competitive wired and wireless network access products market. This market continues to evolve and is characterized by rapid technological innovation. We will need to continue to innovate in order to continue to achieve market adoption of our products and services. We also extended our product offering to include a family of Ethernet switches to complement our wireless offering and allow us to deliver a unified wired and wireless network edge. We have continued the expansion of our product portfolio, announcing during the quarter ended September, 30, 2014, that we enabled our enterprise Wi-Fi solution to support iBeacon and AltBeacon technology and that we released a secure enterprise Wi-Fi branch router with embedded LTE. In addition, our market is currently in the midst of an evolution in related wireless technology standards and protocols. For example, wireless standards for our market currently are transitioning from 802.11n to the new 802.11ac standard, which uses new radio hardware to deliver substantially higher wireless performance. As these standards were being developed and finalized, we performed hardware and software development, both internally and with our original design manufacturers, or ODMs, to incorporate these standards into our product offerings. We also continue to develop new functionality in our product offerings to take advantage of the changes that these industry standards incorporated. For example, in April 2014, we announced the AP230, an 802.11ac Gigabit Wi-Fi 3 x 3 access point. We announced the AP1130, an 802.11ac access point for outdoor applications in December 2014. In April 2015, we announced the AP130, an 801.11ac Gigabit Wi-Fi 2 x 2 access point. For the quarter ended March 31, 2015, we witnessed continued rapid adoption of 802.11ac products (based on the increasing percentage of our product sold during the quarter). Overall, our 802.11ac solutions accounted for 63% of our access point unit volume shipments during the quarter ended March 31, 2015, as compared with 14% for the quarter ended March 31, 2014. We have developed a cloud services platform to provide network management and support additional value-added applications. HiveManager, our network management application, provides a single management interface that customers use to configure network policies, monitor and troubleshoot performance, manage access and security, and run reports on network operations. Our cloud services platform allows us to deliver vertical applications, such as our TeacherView classroom management application for K-12 education; guest access, such as our ID Manager application for providing temporary secure network access; and integration to partners solutions. We are currently introducing HiveManager NG, a new version of our cloud services platform that includes an updated user interface, greater operational capacity to support large deployments, and longer data retention. Our strategy is to make our cloud services platform and applications available to customers in either a subscription public cloud or on-premises private cloud deployment. When we introduce new product offerings, such as the release of the new version of our cloud services or new hardware platforms, we must effectively manage the timing of such releases to minimize the disruption to our existing product offerings and revenue streams and manage the orderly transition of our end-customers to these new products and services to reduce the amount of inventory for products that may become obsolete or slow moving due to our new product introductions and to limit the disruption to our end-customers ordering practices and the pricing environment for our legacy products and services. We also must monitor the performance of these products and provide additional support as they are adopted and first used in the field and performance issues are identified. We will need to continue to react and respond to these changes through innovation and improved execution in order for our business to succeed. We will incur related research and development and support expenses as we do that. 20 We intend to target new end-customers within the industry verticals and geographies in which we currently operate, as well as through expansion into new verticals and geographies. For example, we have partnered with software application providers to tailor our product offerings for specific verticals such as retail, and we intend to continue to pursue such opportunities in other applicable industry verticals. In November of 2014 and January of 2015 we announced continued development of our personalized engagement platform for retailers, which includes a combination of Aerohive products and products developed and sold by our technology partners. In addition, our ability to successfully expand our end-customer base in new industry verticals and geographies of new end-customers is critical to creating a larger and more diverse end-customer base to which we can offer our current and future products and services. In the quarter ended September 30, 2014 we announced that we had been named to the Verizon Partner Program and in our quarter ended December 31, 2014 we announced that we will donate the Wi-Fi infrastructure, including 802.11ac wireless access point switches and cloud-based management, to support a $100 million contribution to be made by Apple Corporation to the ConnectED to deploy Apple iPads, MacBooks and Apple TVs to an identified list of 114 schools. Our sales efforts take several quarters, and involve educating our potential end-customers about the applications and benefits of our products, including the technical capabilities of our products. Sales to the education vertical are an important sales channel for us and can involve an extended sales cycle. In addition, sales to our enterprise customers may involve an extended sales cycle and often initial purchases are small. We attempt to manage these sales cycles through continued diversification of our end-customer base by industry vertical and related purchasing seasonality, deployment maturity and visibility, and the ratio of business from new and existing end-customers. Given the buying cycle for K-12 schools in our education vertical, the second quarter is usually the strongest for our education vertical, which historically has driven our strong sequential growth in the second quarter. The sequential expansion of our operating performance from the first quarter to the second quarter has historically been very large, which can present execution and delivery challenges in subsequent quarters. In addition, we typically see continued growth in our revenue to carry over from our second quarter to our third quarter. However, in our third quarter ended September 30, 2014, our sales results were below our expectations, resulting in lower revenue attainment for the quarter. This was primarily due to lack of sales execution in our less developed sales territories, where the progress we saw in our seasonally strong second quarter did not carry through to the end of the third quarter, in part due to execution issues in some of these territories. Due to annual budget cycles in the enterprise and spending seasonality in the education vertical, we generally experience a seasonal sequential decrease in our product revenue in our first fiscal quarter. In the fiscal first quarter ended March 31, 2015, we continued to experience this seasonal trend. However, in addition to our normal seasonality, we also have seen end-customers in the education vertical defer purchases to the second half of 2015, which we expected they would have placed earlier 2015. The sales results for our first fiscal quarter 2015 were below expectations, primarily due to due to a pause in demand in U.S education business due to the various aspects and timing of the Federal E-Rate program. In addition, we experienced an operational challenge late in the first quarter 2015 with our third party logistics provider and were not able to ship and take revenue in the quarter on all of the orders received and processed. Lastly, we continued to experience lower sales execution in our less-developed sales territories. Continued employee turn-over, particularly in our sales organization in North America, and lower sales execution in our less-developed sales territories, could continue to impact our ability reliably to forecast revenue from quarter to quarter and to achieve operating results consistent with those forecasts. After the initial sale to a new end-customer, we focus on expanding our relationship with the end-customer. In order for us to continue to grow our total revenue, our end-customers must make additional purchases of our products and services. Additional sales to our existing end-customer base can take the form of incremental sales of products and services, either to complete deployments already started or to deploy additional products into other areas of their business. Our opportunity to expand our end-customer relationships through such follow-on sales will increase as we add new end-customers, broaden our product portfolio and enhance product performance and functionality. Follow-on sales lead to increased revenue over the lifecycle of an end-customer relationship and can significantly increase our return on our sales and marketing investments. Our growth strategy also contemplates increased sales and marketing investments internationally. Newly hired sales and marketing personnel require several months to establish new relationships and become productive. In addition, sales teams in international regions will attempt to sell into industry verticals and to end-customers that may not be familiar with our products and services. All of these factors will affect sales productivity. We attempt to manage our overall sales productivity through the timing of the introduction of new territories or the splitting of existing territories, the number and timing of new vertical penetration and the allocation of related headcount and go-to-market resources. As we witnessed lower-than-expected revenue in third quarter of fiscal 2014, we realized we needed to increase our overall sales capacity and address current gaps in certain territories to enable future growth. We believe our mature regions have established a repeatable sales and channel model that we can use and build upon as a template to grow our business. We intend to replicate this model in our less mature territories through a combination of hiring additional sales people, ramping our recently hired sales people to increase productivity, and continuing to develop our channel. We announced in February 25, 2015, the departure of our Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations, and that we were undertaking a search for his replacement, as part of a reorganization of our sales function. In 21 April 2015, we announced that Tom Wilburn had joined our company in this position. We continue actively to work to improve on all of these fronts, but ramping sales people and developing channels take time, so we expect this will continue to be a multi-quarter effort. Lastly, we expect to continue to derive the majority of our sales through our channel partners. Our channel partners will play a significant role in our future growth as they identify new end-customers and expand our sales to existing end-customers. We plan to continue to invest in and better utilize and scale our network of channel partners in parallel with our sales capacity to increase sales to existing end-customers, enable our channel partners to reach new end-customers and provide services and support effectively. In April 2015, we announced a new relationship with Dell Inc., whereby Dell will become a reseller of Aerohives Wi-Fi and cloud services, and that the companies expect to work together to execute their shared vision of cloud-managed IT to provide simplified and streamlined operations, configuration, monitoring and troubleshooting for customer networks. To support this new relationship, we will need to identify and invest in additional and dedicated resources and, potentially, new product, service and support offerings, which could distract managements attention and divert existing resources from our current business. Also, there is no assurance that this relationship, or others we may pursue, will identify significant or new market opportunities or growth incremental to our existing business. All of these efforts will require us to continue to make significant sales and marketing investments. Additionally, we will increasingly focus our resources and attention on those channel partners best able to help us meet our growth expectations. As a result, the total number of our channel partners may over time not maintain current growth rates or even decline. Key Components of Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Revenue We generate revenue from the sales of our products and services, and recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Our total revenue comprises the following: Product Revenue . Our product revenue consists of revenue from sales of our hardware products, which include wireless access points, branch routers, and switches, all of which are embedded with our proprietary operating system, HiveOS, and perpetual licenses of our unified network management system, HiveManager, and other software applications, as well as related accessories. We recognize product revenue at the time of shipment, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. For our VAD arrangements in which our VADs stock inventory, we recognize revenue when our VADs have shipped the products to our end-customers (or to VARs that have identified end-customers), provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Software Subscription and Services Revenue. Our software subscription and services revenue consists of revenue from sales of our software subscription and services offerings that we deliver over a specified term. These offerings primarily include PCS related to our perpetual software licenses and subscriptions to HiveManager and other software applications delivered as SaaS, including related customer support, and from subsequent renewals of those contracts. Our PCS includes tiered maintenance and support services under renewable, fee-based maintenance and support contracts, which include technical support, bug fixes, access to priority hardware replacement service and unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if available basis. Our SaaS subscriptions include comparable maintenance and support services. The higher the percentage of our end-customers that purchase SaaS subscriptions, as opposed to HiveManager and PCS, the higher our software subscription and services revenue will be as a percentage of our total revenue. We recognize software subscription and services revenue ratably over the term of the contract, which is typically one, three or five years. As a result, our recognition of software subscription and services revenue lags our recognition of related product revenue. Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue includes the following: Cost of Product Revenue. Our cost of product revenue primarily includes manufacturing costs of our products payable to third-party manufacturers. Our cost of product revenue also includes personnel costs, including stock-based compensation, shipping costs, third-party logistics costs, provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, warranty and replacement costs, the depreciation and amortization of testing and imaging equipment, inbound license fees, certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs, and other expenses associated with logistics and quality control. Cost of Software Subscription and Services Revenue. Our cost of software subscription and services revenue primarily includes personnel costs, including stock-based compensation, certain allocated facilities information technology 22 infrastructure costs and costs associated with our provision of PCS and SaaS. Our cost of software subscription and services revenue also includes datacenter costs. Gross Profit Our gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including product shipment volumes, average sales prices of our products, discounts offered to our VAR and VAD partners, the mix of revenue between products and software subscription and services, and the mix of hardware products sold, because our hardware products have varying gross margins depending on the product offering and the lifecycle of the product. Historically, our software subscription and services gross margin has been lower than our product gross margin; however, we expect our software subscription and services gross margin to increase over the long term because we expect our software subscription and services revenue to increase more quickly than our cost of software subscription and services revenue. We expect our gross margin to increase modestly over the long term, but it may decrease in any given time in the event we experience additional competitive pricing pressure. We also expect that our gross margin will fluctuate from period to period depending on the factors described above. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses include the following: Research and Development. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including bonuses, stock-based compensation, recruiting fees and travel expenses for employees engaged in research, design and development activities. Research and development expenses also include costs for prototype-related expenses, product certification, consulting services, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. We believe that continued investment in research and development is important to attaining our strategic objectives. We expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in the development of our products and services. However, we expect our research and development expenses to decrease modestly as a percentage of our total revenue over the long term, although our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our research and development expenses. Sales and Marketing. Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including commission costs, stock-based compensation, recruiting fees and travel expenses for employees engaged in sales and marketing activities. Commission expenses in any given period are based on completed contracts, which may not result in revenue in the same period in which we incur the expense. Sales and marketing expenses also include the cost of trade shows, marketing programs, promotional materials, demonstration equipment, consulting services, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we increase the size of our sales and marketing organization, expand into new markets and further develop our channel program. However, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue over the long term, although our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our sales and marketing expenses. General and Administrative. Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including bonuses, stock-based compensation and travel expenses for our executive, finance, human resources, legal and operations employees, as well as compensation for our Board. General and administrative expenses also include fees for outside consulting, legal, audit, investor relations, and accounting service and insurance, as well as depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. We expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars due to the additional legal, accounting, insurance, investor relations, information technology and other costs that we will continue to incur as a public company, as well as other costs associated with growing our business. However, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease modestly as a percentage of our total revenue over the long term, although our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our general and administrative expenses. Interest Expense Our interest expense consists primarily of interest on our indebtedness. See Note 4 of our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for more information about our debt. Other Income Other income primarily consists of gains from foreign currency exchange transactions. 23 Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes consists primarily of foreign tax expense due to our cost-plus agreements with our foreign entities, which guarantee foreign entities a profit, and to a lesser extent federal and state income tax expense. As of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, we maintained a full valuation allowance against our domestic deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards and research and development and other tax credits. We expect our provision for income taxes to increase in absolute dollars in future periods. 24 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented in dollars (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Revenue: Product $ 20,480 $ 24,861 Software subscription and services 5,337 3,371 Total revenue 25,817 28,232 Cost of revenue (1) : Product 6,808 7,882 Software subscription and services 1,828 1,366 Total cost of revenue 8,636 9,248 Gross profit 17,181 18,984 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 7,510 6,138 Sales and marketing (1) 18,770 16,569 General and administrative (1) 6,247 4,837 Operating loss (15,346 ) (8,560 ) Interest income 14 1 Interest expense (754 ) (465 ) Other income 135 117 Loss before income taxes (15,951 ) (8,907 ) Income tax provision (108 ) (20 ) Net loss and comprehensive loss $ (16,059 ) $ (8,927 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 165 $ 45 Research and development 986 351 Sales and marketing 1,497 621 General and administrative 1,174 549 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 3,822 $ 1,566 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented as a percentage of our total revenue: 25 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Revenue: Product 79 % 88 % Software subscription and services 21 12 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue: Product 26 28 Software subscription and services 7 5 Total cost of revenue 33 33 Gross profit 67 67 Operating expenses: Research and development 29 22 Sales and marketing 73 59 General and administrative 24 17 Operating loss (59 ) (31 ) Interest income Interest expense (3 ) (2 ) Other income Loss before income taxes (62 ) (33 ) Income tax provision Net loss and comprehensive loss (62 )% (33 )% 26 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) Revenues: Product $ 20,480 $ 24,861 $ (4,381 ) (18 )% Software subscription and services 5,337 3,371 1,966 58 % Total revenue $ 25,817 $ 28,232 $ (2,415 ) (9 )% Percentage of revenues: Product 79 % 88 % Software subscription and services 21 % 12 % Total 100 % 100 % Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) Revenue by geographic region: Americas $ 14,093 $ 17,378 $ (3,285 ) (19 )% EMEA 9,126 8,008 $ 1,118 14 % APAC 2,598 2,846 $ (248 ) (9 )% Total revenue $ 25,817 $ 28,232 $ (2,415 ) (9 )% Percentage of revenue by geographic region: Americas 55 % 62 % EMEA 35 % 28 % APAC 10 % 10 % Total 100 % 100 % Revenue decreased $2.4 million , or 9% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014, primarily due to lower product unit shipments, partially offset by the increasing demand for our software subscription and services offerings. The decrease in revenue was due primarily to a pause in demand in U.S education business due to the various aspects and timing of the Federal E-Rate program. In addition, we experienced operational challenges late in the first quarter 2015 with our third party logistics provider and were not able to ship product and therefore record revenue in the quarter for all of the orders received. Product revenue decreased $4.4 million , primarily due to the decrease in shipments of product unit, mostly our intelligent access points. Software subscription and services revenue increased $2.0 million , primarily driven by the increase in sales of PCS and SaaS in connection with an increased number of our end-customers, and recognition of deferred revenue. The Americas revenue decreased $3.3 million from period to period, due to lower than expected U.S. education business due to the various aspects and timing of the Federal E-Rate program. EMEA revenue from period to period increased $1.1 million due to increased demand for our products in this region. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin 27 Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues: Product $ 6,808 $ 7,882 $ (1,074 ) (14 )% Software subscription and services 1,828 1,366 462 34 % Total cost of revenues $ 8,636 $ 9,248 $ (612 ) (7 )% Gross margin: Product 66.8 % 68.3 % Software subscription and services 65.7 % 59.5 % Total gross margin 66.5 % 67.2 % Cost of revenue decreased $0.6 million , or 7% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to March 31, 2014. The decrease of cost of product primarily related to the decrease in sales of our products. Software subscription and services cost increased $0.5 million or 34% , primarily due to an increase in cloud operations and support personnel related headcount. Our cloud operations and support personnel headcount increased from 26 as of March 31, 2014 to 28 as of March 31, 2015. The decrease in our product gross margin was primarily driven by product mix as the majority of our product shipments transitioned to .11ac products. In addition, product gross margin was impacted by higher discounts provided in our international markets to offset the strength of the U.S. dollar. These decreases were partially offset by the continued improvement in our product design and supply chain management as well as efficiencies in the manufacturing costs. The increase in our software subscription and services gross margin was primarily due to higher growth in our software subscription and services revenue than our related cost of delivering these software subscription and services. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 7,510 $ 6,138 $ 1,372 22 % % of revenue 29 % 22 % The increase in our research and development expenses was primarily due to the increase in personnel and related allocated costs of facilities and information technology costs that were partially offset by the capitalized development costs for our SaaS offerings under development. Compared with the first fiscal quarter of 2014, personnel and related costs increased $1.3 million , including bonuses and stock-based compensation expense of $1.0 million , as we increased our research and development headcount to support continued investment in our future product and service offerings. The increase in personnel and related costs was partially offset by $0.5 million personnel and related costs, including wages, bonuses and stock-based compensation, capitalized for development of our new SaaS infrastructure. In April 2015, we completed and launched such SaaS infrastructure, the next generation Cloud service. Subsequent to the release of the SaaS infrastructure, we will amortize the capitalized costs as part of the cost of software subscription and services, over an estimated useful life of 5 years. The remaining increase in our research and development expenses was mainly due to higher costs related to product certifications, depreciation expenses and certain allocated facilities, as well as information technology costs. Our research and development headcount slightly decreased from 219 as of March 31, 2014 to 218 as of March 31, 2015. We expect our research and development costs to continue to increase in absolute dollars, as we continue to invest in developing new products and new versions of our existing products. Sales and Marketing 28 Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 18,770 $ 16,569 $ 2,201 13 % % of revenue 73 % 59 % The increase in our sales and marketing expenses was primarily due to increases in personnel and related costs of $2.3 million , primarily due to increases in salaries, commissions, other employee related costs, and stock-based compensation expense of $0.9 million . Our sales and marketing headcount slightly increased from 226 as of March 31, 2014 to 228 as of March 31, 2015. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to add sales personnel and continue marketing programs. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 6,247 $ 4,837 $ 1,410 29 % % of revenue 24 % 17 % The increase in our general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increases in personnel and related costs of $1.1 million , including bonuses and stock-based compensation. Our general and administrative headcount increased from 72 as of March 31, 2014 to 81 as of March 31, 2015. We expect that general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars due primarily to costs associated with being a public company and to support the growth in our business. Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest expense $ (754 ) $ (465 ) $ (289 ) 62 % The increase in our interest expense was primarily due to the accelerated amortization of non-cash interest expense due to the early payment of our $10.0 million term loan credit facility with TriplePoint Capital LLC. See Note 4 in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 29 Liquidity and Capital Resources Capital Resources Prior to the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we funded our operations primarily through cash provided by financing activities, including private sales of equity securities and funds raised through debt financing. In April 2014, we completed our IPO which resulted in net proceeds of $80.2 million, after deducting underwriters' discounts and commissions. As of March 31, 2015 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $92.7 million , $90.5 million of which was held within the United States. As of March 31, 2015, we paid-off our term loans in full with TriplePoint Capital LLC and had $20.0 million of outstanding debt under our revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank. We were in compliance with all covenants under our loan agreement with Silicon Valley Bank as of March 31, 2015. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our spending to support our research and development efforts, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced product and service offerings, the costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity, and the level of market acceptance of our products. However, we may be required to raise additional funds in the future through public or private debt or equity financing to meet additional working capital requirements. There can be no assurance that this additional financing will be available, or if available, will be on reasonable terms and not dilutive to our stockholders. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (2,940 ) $ (1,716 ) Net cash used in investing activities (2,241 ) (1,433 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (203 ) 1,429 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (5,384 ) $ (1,720 ) Operating Activities We have historically experienced negative cash flows from operating activities as we continue to invest in our business. Our largest use of cash related to operating activities are for employee-related expenditures and purchases of finished products from our contract manufacturers. Our primary source of cash flows from operating activities is cash receipts from our channel partners. Our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be affected principally by the extent to which we grow our total revenue and increase our headcount, primarily in our sales and marketing and research and development functions, in order to grow our business. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, operating activities used $2.9 million of cash as a result of our net loss of $16.1 million , partially offset by non-cash charges of $4.7 million and a net change of $8.5 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $3.8 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $0.6 million . The net change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $7.1 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $2.5 million increase in accounts payable, and a $1.7 million increase in deferred revenue as a result of an increase in sales of PCS and SaaS, partially offset by an increase of $3.0 million in cash used for inventory purchases. Our days sales outstanding, or DSO, which we define as the number of days it takes us to collect revenue after a sale has been made, based on a 90-day average, was 58 days as of March 31, 2015. For the three months ended March 31, 2014, operating activities used $1.7 million of cash as a result of our net loss of $8.9 million , partially offset by non-cash charges of $2.0 million and a net change of $5.2 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges consisted primarily of $1.6 million in stock-based compensation and $0.5 million in depreciation and amortization expense. The net change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $1.7 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $1.8 million increase in accounts payable, and a $1.8 million increase in deferred revenue as a result of an increase in sales of PCS and SaaS, partially offset by small changes in other accounts. Our days sales outstanding, or DSO, which we define as the number of days it takes us to collect revenue after a sale has been made, based on 30 a 90-day average, was 50 days as of March 31, 2014. Higher shipments and billings in the later part of the quarter ended March 31, 2015, as compared to quarter ended March 31, 2014, resulted in an increase in the DSO as compared to March 31, 2014. Investing Activities Our investing activities have primarily consisted of purchases of property and equipment and capitalized development costs of our SaaS offerings. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, cash used in investing activities was $2.2 million , primarily attributable to capitalization of internal software development costs for development of our new SaaS infrastructure of $1.8 million , and purchases of property and equipment of $0.5 million , relating primarily to manufacturing, research and development lab equipment and purchased software. The capitalization of internal software development costs for development of our new SaaS infrastructure represents personnel and related costs including wages and bonuses. We started to capitalize costs for development of our new SaaS infrastructure from December 2013. In April 2015, we completed and launched the SaaS infrastructure, the next generation Cloud service. Subsequent to the release of the SaaS infrastructure, we will amortize the capitalized costs as part of the cost of software subscription and services, over an estimated useful life of 5 years. For the three months ended March 31, 2014, cash used in investing activities was $1.4 million and was attributable to capitalization of internal software development costs for development of our new SaaS infrastructure of $1.0 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $0.4 million , relating primarily to computer and other infrastructure equipment, testing and imaging equipment, and research and development lab equipment. Financing Activities Our financing activities have primarily consisted of the private placements of convertible preferred stock, issuance of debt and proceeds from exercises of stock options, as well as proceeds from the sale of common stock in our IPO in April, 2014. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, financing activities used $0.2 million of cash, primarily as a result of $0.3 million in proceeds from exercises of stock options, offset by $0.5 million cash used for shares repurchased for tax withholdings on vesting of restricted stock units. As of March 31, 2015, we paid-off in full the $10.0 million outstanding under our term loans with TriplePoint Capital LLC and borrowed an additional $10.0 million under our revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank. We were in compliance with all covenants under our loan agreement with Silicon Valley Bank as of March 31, 2015. For the three months ended March 31, 2014, financing activities provided $1.4 million of cash, primarily as a result of net proceeds of $0.9 million from exercises of convertible preferred stock warrants and $1.0 million in proceeds from exercises of stock options, partially offset by $0.5 million payment of offering costs related to our IPO. Debt Obligations In August 2013, we entered into a term loan credit facility with TriplePoint Capital that allows us, subject to certain funding conditions, including compliance with certain covenants and the absence of certain events or conditions that could be deemed to have a material adverse effect on our business, to borrow term loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $20.0 million. In December 2013, we borrowed $10.0 million under the term loan credit facility under two separate loans. The first loan was for $7.5 million with a term of 48-months with interest only for 24 months and 24 equal payments thereafter to fully amortize the loan, plus an end of term payment of $0.5 million. The second loan was for $2.5 million for a term of 24 months interest only with the principal payable at the end of two years plus an end of term payment of $0.15 million. The stated interest rate for each loan was 10.75% and 9.75%, respectively, and was reduced to 10.25% and 9.25% due to the completion of the IPO in April 2014. In February 2015, we entered into an agreement with TriplePoint relating to early voluntary prepayments of outstanding obligations under the Company's first and second term loans, and providing for a 50% reduction in the end-of-term payment for each of the loans. In exchange for this reduction of its end-of-term payments, we extended to March 27, 2016 the expiration date for warrants to purchase 73,883 shares of our common stock. In March 2015, we elected to voluntarily repay in full all of our outstanding obligations under the term loan credit facility, along with an end-of-term payment of $0.3 million. In June 2012, we entered into a revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank for an aggregate principal amount of up to $10.0 million, with a sublimit of $3.0 million for borrowings guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Our revolving credit facility is collateralized by substantially all of our property, other than our intellectual property. The 31 revolving credit facility bears monthly interest at a floating rate equal to the greater of (1) 4.00% or (2) prime rate plus 0.75%. We drew $10.0 million under this credit facility in June 2012. On March 31, 2015, we amended the revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank. The amendment, among other things, (i) extended the line maturity date to March 31, 2017 from June 29, 2015; (ii) removed the $3.0 million sublimit for borrowings guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank of the United States; and (iii) increased the revolving line up to $20.0 million, subject to certain conditions. The amended credit facility bears interest at a floating rate equal to the lesser of (i) LIBOR rate plus 2.25% or (ii) prime rate minus 0.5%. On March 31, 2015, we drew down the additional $10.0 million under this credit facility. As of March 31, 2015, $20.0 million under the revolving credit facility was outstanding. The revolving credit facility contains customary negative covenants which limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, make investments, repurchase stock, pay dividends, transfer assets and merge or consolidate, as well as requires us to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio of 1.25 to 1.00 as of the last day of each month. The revolving credit facility also contains customary events of default, subject to customary cure periods for certain defaults, that include, among other things, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, material judgment defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, cross-defaults to certain other material indebtedness, inaccuracy of representation and warranties. Upon an event of default, the lenders may declare all or a portion of the outstanding obligations payable by us to be immediately due and payable and exercise other rights and remedies provided for under the credit facility. During the existence of an event of default, interest on the obligations under the credit facility could be increased by 5.0%. As of March 31, 2015, we were in compliance with these covenants. We will use loans drawn under the revolving credit facility for working capital and general corporate purposes. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Through March 31, 2015 , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We have entered into agreements with some of our end-customers that contain indemnification provisions in the event of claims alleging that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party. Under these agreements, we have, at our option and expense, the ability to resolve any infringement, replace our product with a non-infringing product that is equivalent-in-function, or refund the customers the total product price. Other guarantees or indemnification arrangements include guarantees of product and service performance. We have not recorded a liability related to these indemnification and guarantee provisions and our guarantees and indemnification arrangements have not had any impact on our consolidated financial statements to date. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures we report. We base our estimates on our historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. Actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe the critical accounting policies and estimates discussed under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report Form 10-K reflect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as filed in such report.