Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words believe, will, may, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, expect, predict, could, potentially and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to predict our revenue, operating results and gross margin accurately, including guidance we provide to our investors and investment analysts; our ability to timely develop, deliver and transition to new product offerings and transition existing and new end customers to such offerings, including in conjunction with our Connect product offering and data analytics, while maintaining existing product revenue and our existing service-level commitments to end customers; our ability to continue to identify opportunities and secure new customers for our products which are necessary to achieve future revenue growth; our ability to accurately estimate and predictably manage in a quarter shipments of products to our distributors, including in conjunction with our determination of guidance we provide to investors regarding our revenue, operating results and gross margin for the quarter; our ability to maximize the economic opportunity of the U.S. Federal Communications Commissions E-Rate program and the timing and uncertainty of the availability of such funding, the level of available funding and the decisions by end customers to purchase our products using such funding; the length and seasonal unpredictability of our sales cycles; the effects of increased competition in and consolidation of our market and our ability to compete with larger competitors with greater financial, technical and other resources; our ability to attract new end customers within the verticals and geographies in which we currently operate; our ability to enhance and broaden our product and solutions offerings and timely bring new products, product functionality and solutions to market; changes in global consumer confidence and demand for our products internationally, due to disputes regarding trade and transfers of intellectual property, slowing global economic activity, changes to foreign currency exchange rates and other factors, including the decision of the United Kingdom to withdraw from the European Union; our ability to continue to build and enhance relationships with channel partners and to derive revenue from our investments in those partnerships, particularly with our strategic partners; our ability to protect our intellectual property and our exposure to third-party claims that we or our customers or channel partners infringe their intellectual property; and other risk factors included under the section titled Risk Factors. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere in this report. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for us to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, we caution you not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. You should read the following information in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements we have included in this report. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Aerohive Networks, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, Aerohive Networks, Aerohive, Company, we, us, and our), has designed and developed a leading cloud networking platform and product portfolio using cloud management, machine learning, and artificial intelligence to simplify and secure the access network. Our cloud-managed wireless, switching, routing, and security technologies provide flexibility and scalability in the deployment, management and licensing of networks globally. Our global cloud footprint provides network operations for 30,000+ customers and 10+ million daily users. Technologies and Solutions We are building a portfolio of products and solutions around four primary sets of technologies and capabilities: Enterprise Cloud Networking. Using cloud-based technologies, whether as a public or private cloud, to reduce the complexity of deploying and managing Wi-Fi access points, access switches, SD-WAN-capable routers and cloud-managed NAC solution; Wi-Fi as the Primary Connectivity. Putting more Wi-Fi intelligence and power closer to the end user using a distributed-control architecture that greatly simplifies network topologies and IT operations; Cloud-Managed Network Access Control (NAC). Securing, controlling and managing network-connected devices, including wireless and wired, IoT and BYOD, with our vendor-agnostic, cloud-managed NAC solution to reduce complexity and cost compared to traditional on-premises offerings; and Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. Applying machine learning to collected data sets to increase accuracy and actions to be driven by artificial intelligence to improve the operation of a customer's network. We believe that each of these areas for innovation adds valuable customer capabilities, differentiates our offering, and showcases our continuing innovation. Enterprise Cloud Networking . Our customers today are increasingly demanding ease and simplicity in how they deploy, manage, license, and operate their access networks with a particular emphasis on the Wi-Fi and security elements. Cloud networking positions us to deliver this to organizations of all sizes. Our cloud capabilities, including our HiveManager network management applications and A3 cloud-managed NAC, combined with machine learning and emerging developments in artificial intelligence technology, can provide the feature depth required for managing enterprise-class networks. We believe we are the only major vendor who can provide these enterprise-class capabilities in public cloud, private cloud and on on-premise deployments. We have chosen to focus on enterprise cloud management based on compelling benefits we believe we can offer our customers. Legacy approaches to network management have relied on complex enterprise applications that customers must install, integrate, maintain, and administer. New releases were infrequent, and updates installed by customers even less frequent. In contrast, our cloud-based network management provides a single, integrated management view across the entire network that a customer can access from virtually anywhere. We maintain and administer the network management application in the cloud, which users then access as a subscription service that can be regularly updated in response to new features or urgent changes. With our innovations in cloud management, we believe we can deliver a number of important capabilities to our customers. While enterprise customers want simplified network management, they still need a full set of features and capabilities. Our progressive disclosure user interface means that advanced features are available but are hidden from view when not being used. Similarly, organizations that need to deploy the network often do not have technical staff at every location. Our cloud management supports automated provisioning, where a device that is connected to the network for the first time can automatically find and download its proper configuration. Our cloud management solution also includes troubleshooting capabilities, such as dashboards, to identify potential issues, and monitoring, to research and resolve them. Finally, cloud management makes it possible for a customer to evaluate the capabilities of our solution. A single wireless access point with a corresponding license for HiveManager gives customers access to such capabilities. In addition, those customers who want the capabilities of cloud management, but also need to manage their network in their own datacenter, behind their own firewall, can install and run HiveManager "on premises" at a customer location with similar functionality and software as we offer in the public cloud. Overall, by taking advantage of our innovative capabilities, our customers are able to manage even large networks with a small staff and limited resources. 1 While we were an early leader in controllerless Wi-Fi and cloud management, we continue to innovate and to invest in HiveManager as our strategic cloud management application. We are focusing our current efforts on HiveManager (an updated version of our legacy HiveManager application, we now call HiveManager Classic). HiveManager features an updated user interface, improved troubleshooting, expanded access to data and analytics, and an upgraded cloud-deployment platform. HiveManager also offers a more dynamic platform for innovation. Throughout 2016, we delivered new releases of HiveManager that continued to expand our enterprise feature set and improve the user experience. In January 2017, we announced HiveManager Connect, a simplified version of HiveManager included as a part of our new Aerohive Connect product line designed for customers with less complex, connectivity-oriented requirements. Aerohive's Connect customers can purchase a subscription to upgrade to our current full-featured Aerohive Select offering to access additional capabilities, such as advanced security and troubleshooting tools, support for BYOD programs, increased network visibility, enterprise support options, and the ability to deploy HiveManager on-premises or in a private cloud environment. In 2018, we added machine-learning and artificial intelligence capabilities to our HiveManager application, such as: Client 360, to improve the client experience; Network 360, to improve the health and performance of the network; and an Amazon Alexa Skill called HiveManager Shortcuts, to provide network administrators with a voice-driven, Al-powered interface to provide hands-free network monitoring and performance analytics on-the-go using simple voice commands. Throughout 2018, we have seen significant increase in the rate of migration from HiveManager Classic to HiveManager by existing customers, and HiveManager has become the primary choice for new customers. However, we will continue to offer and support both versions of the application, while working with current HiveManager Classic customers as appropriate to migrate to HiveManager. Wi-Fi as the Primary Connectivity for the Enterprise . We have built our Wi-Fi around a distributed-control and data-plane architecture that simplifies deployment, management, and operation while providing resiliency. We believe our distributed-control and data-plane technology remains one of our key innovations and differentiators. Over the last decade, Wi-Fi architectures have gone through a series of evolutions in response to changing technologies and user requirements. When the original autonomous Wi-Fi access points proved difficult to manage vendors introduced wireless LAN controllers to the network. Wireless LAN controllers brought management and control, but they also brought the cost and complexity of dedicated hardware, a new single point of failure, and rigid deployments less able to meet dynamic requirements of wireless networks. To overcome these limitations other vendors have integrated their controller with switches or Wi-Fi access points, or moved their controllers into the cloud, with greater cost and limited capabilities. In contrast, our architecture distributes the control plane across the Wi-Fi access points, eliminating the need for any wireless LAN controller and reducing costs of operation. We deliver distributed control through HiveOS, our device-operating system that runs on every Aerohive Wi-Fi access point. HiveOS delivers radio management, client roaming, load balancing, policy enforcement, packet inspection and other functions locally on the Wi-Fi access point. Our distributed-control and data-plane architecture provides several benefits to our customers. Most important is the scalability of a single architecture. Most of our competitors have different technologies and products for different sizes of deployments. Instead, our customers can start small and grow as they need to without change in architecture or Wi-Fi technology. Our customers can also mix different generations of Wi-Fi access points in the same network; thus, preserving existing infrastructure investments. Overall, by intelligently distributing control over the Wi-Fi access points our architecture can support faster deployments and greater resiliency. Integral to our scalable Wi-Fi is the ability to enforce security at the Wi-Fi access point based on the end customers access policies, which can be based on the application being used, or other factors such as the device user identity and role, device type and ownership, and network access location and time of day. Our Private Pre-Shared Key ("PPSK") technology extends these capabilities to assign each device a unique key for accessing the network that can be authorized or revoked without impacting other network devices. PPSK can also be used in Internet of Things ("IoT") deployments to authorize devices that do not have a keyboard or some other mechanism for providing credentials. While we emphasize our Wi-Fi capabilities our portfolio also includes cloud-managed access switches and SD-WAN-capable routers. Our Wi-Fi access points do not require either our access switches or SD-WAN-capable routers: they can be used with products from other major network hardware manufacturers. However, customers who purchase our access switches or SD-WAN-capable routers gain the ability to manage them with their wireless access points through a single HiveManager interface. Cloud-Managed NAC . Access networks present multiple IT security challenges due to an ever-growing number of corporate and guest devices, as well as IoT and Bring-Your-Own-Device ("BYOD"), needing to be securely on-boarded and provisioned with the access rights appropriate for their roles. Once authenticated, the devices accessing the network can continue to pose security risks due to malware and compromised third-party applications the devices may accumulate over time. 2 A3, our cloud-managed NAC solution we introduced in 2018, provides security for all devices on the network. It delivers enterprise-grade functionality for device onboarding, visibility, profiling and policy enforcement, while its cloud-management option offers deployment simplicity, flexibility and scalability. Streamlined user-interface ("UI")-based workflows can further reduce the operational complexity and cost typically associated with competing offerings. A3 can orchestrate complementary security solutions, leveraging them to extend and unify policy enforcement to further bolster overall network security. A3 is vendor agnostic, with functionality supported on all major vendor networks. When deployed on an Aerohive network it delivers benefits like single-pane-of-glass management from Aerohive's HiveManager and PPSK. Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence . Increasingly, our customers are looking for value from the data their networks generate. Aerohive's access networks can be instrumented to collect and process enormous amounts of data using machine learning and emerging developments in artificial intelligence technology, focusing on characterizing client experience, application usage, and infrastructure device effectiveness. We believe such machine-learning-derived results, coupled with the ability to utilize artificial-intelligence-driven actions, can address a variety of use cases, including: Component Benchmarking and Health. Tracking and comparing utilization of a customer's network components to other access networks of a similar size and domain; Client Benchmarking and Health. Tracking and comparing client experience in a customer's access network to other access networks of a similar size and domain; and Presence and Location. Tracking, correlating and reporting the proximity (Bluetooth-derived), presence (Wi-Fi-derived) and/or location (Wi-Fi-derived) of user and devices in near-real-time or over time. Application developers are also able to take advantage of the Aerohive Cloud Services ("ACS") platform. The ACS platform collects data for our customers from Aerohive network devices and, we expect in the future, from other vendor devices or third-party sources. We are also developing the ability to collect and aggregate data for our customers into a secure and scalable cloud-based store, which then can be processed and made available to our customers externally via APIs. Application developers can incorporate these APIs into their applications in order to receive data and analytics from us without needing to collect and process this data themselves. This approach means that the ACS platform has the extensibility to support additional use cases in the future. We expect to continue to expand the APIs and analytics that we make available from the ACS platform in order to encourage and enable an open-application-development environment to make possible compelling applications for our partners and customers. Products We offer our solution to end customers as a portfolio of products that includes our hardware products, cloud-based network management and applications, and support services. Our hardware products include Wi-Fi access points, access switches and SD-WAN-capable routers. Our hardware design team develops our hardware products by working in conjunction with original design manufacturers ("ODMs"). Our Wi-Fi access points and SD-WAN branch routers run our proprietary HiveOS operating system. We generally sell our access switches and SD-WAN-capable routers in conjunction with a sale of Wi-Fi access points. We also sell our Wi-Fi access points for use with other manufactures' access switches and routers. Our cloud-based product offering includes HiveManager, our next-generation network management application which features an updated user interface, improved troubleshooting, expanded access to data and analytics and an upgraded cloud-deployment platform. We offer tiered maintenance and support services under renewable, fee-based maintenance and support contracts, which include technical support, bug fixes, access to priority hardware replacement services and unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if-available basis. Our Software as a Service ("SaaS") subscriptions include comparable maintenance and support services. We continue to look for new ways to package and deliver our product to address customer demand and market opportunity. In January 2017, we introduced our Aerohive Connect product line targeting customers with simpler connectivity-oriented use cases. All Aerohive access points and switches can be purchased and deployed with Aerohive's subscription-free Connect offering, which is a simplified version of HiveManager, and community/email-based customer support. We offer Aerohive Connect as a complement to, not a replacement for, our full offering which we refer to as Aerohive Select. Aerohive Select remains our flagship solution capable of addressing the most-demanding enterprise network, deployment, and security requirements. Aerohive Connect customers can easily upgrade to Select at any time with the purchase of an entitlement key that provides access to additional feature sets and support. We expect many customers who might otherwise not initially consider Aerohive to be nonetheless attracted to the simplicity and low cost of Aerohive Connect and the ability to transition later to Aerohive Select as their network requirements evolve. 3 In April 2018, we introduced the Aerohive Atom AP30, the first enterprise-class pluggable access point designed to augment or replace ceiling-mounted access points and to simplify providing connectivity in both easy and hard-to-reach locations with the ability to quickly fill in Wi-Fi dead zones, improve meeting space capacity and network validation, and reduce the need for wiring. In July 2018, we shipped the first family of enterprise-class access points, the AP630, AP650 and AP650X, based on the developing 802.11ax standard (also known as Wi-Fi 6). These newest-generation access points are designed for high density and performance environments, combining IEEE's 802.11ax technology with our HiveManager network management system, machine learning, and artificial intelligence capabilities. In addition, the integrated BLE radio and a USB interface in these access points open a multitude of deployment use-cases in IoT and proximity/location-oriented services. In September 2018, we introduced the XR600P, our highest capacity SD-WAN branch router, capable of operating as both VPN client and server, which offers larger branches increased throughput, secure application-aware traffic shaping and monitoring, end-to-end QoS, and dynamic link prioritization. Managed by HiveManager, Aerohive's industry-leading cloud-management platform, Aerohive's XR routers can be deployed with ease and at scale alongside Aerohive's unified switches and access points for a full-stack distributed access network solution. Segment and Geographic Information We operate one reporting segment and operating segment structure. We present financial information about our operating segment and geographic areas in Note 10 to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Customers We sell our products to end customers through a network of authorized distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs") and managed-service providers ("MSPs"). We have sold our products to tens of thousands of end customers worldwide. We define end customers as organizations holding or having held licenses to our products and software subscription and services. Our end customers represent a broad range of industry verticals, including education, distributed enterprises, retail, hospitality and healthcare. In many cases, our target customers are installing a Wi-Fi network for the first time, or in parts of their organization that do not currently have Wi-Fi installed. In other cases, our customers already have a Wi-Fi network installed and our opportunity is to engage them in a future expansion or replacement of their current solution. Sales We use channel partners to sell and deliver our solutions to our end customers, which we support through our sales organization. Our sales teams are located in the United States, Asia Pacific and in Europe and focus on the development and enablement of our channels, the acquisition of end customer accounts in both the enterprise and State & Local Government/Education segments and overall market development. Our sales engineers have responsibility for pre-sales technical support, solutions engineering for our end customers, and technical training for our channel partners. We continue to evaluate and adjust our sales headcount in our principal and emerging markets based on a combination of our current sales results and future sales potential. Our sales team works with our channel partners who have networking, Wi-Fi, security and/or vertical market expertise to win and support end customers through a direct-touch approach. Our distributors sell our products to and support our VARs, who then sell our products directly to end customers, often with the addition of their own installation or professional services. We are increasingly working with MSPs, who bundle our product and service offerings with their own infrastructure and services to provide ongoing network operations and management to end customers. This includes traditional VARs who are now expanding their services offering to include ongoing network management services. We extend our sales capabilities through strategic alliances with companies such as Dell EMC and Juniper Networks. We hope to develop such alliances to be meaningful contributions to our business going forward. Backlog We typically accept and ship orders for product and related services within a short time-frame. However, our partners may reschedule orders without penalty, or we may delay shipment due to inventory constraints. As such, we do not believe that our backlog at any particular time is a reliable indicator of future revenue. 4 Research and Development Continued investment in research and development is critical to our business. To this end, we have assembled a team of engineers with expertise in various fields, including networking platforms, cloud operations and applications, security systems, RF functions, user-interface design and open-source programming. We currently conduct our research and development efforts in California, with an additional facility in China. We have invested significant time and financial resources in the development of our products, including our cloud services platform, HiveManager, and operating platform, HiveOS. We view continued investment in these capabilities as essential to our ability to differentiate ourselves in a competitive industry and to continue to be able to grow our business. For example, in 2015 we released HiveManager, our next-generation cloud services platform which provides a basis for data services and data analytic applications, and we released additional software modules to enhance the functionality and performance of our HiveOS operating system. In 2015, we announced our ACS platform, which provides a secure and scalable cloud-based big data store for data collected from Aerohive network devices, other devices, or third-party sources, which can then be available to application developers to incorporate their API applications without needing to collect and process this data themselves. In April 2016, we announced with our partner Dell EMC, a Dell-branded version of HiveManager capable of managing Dell N-series switches in the same network as Aerohive Wi-Fi access points, delivering multi-vendor integrated wired and wireless network management. Throughout 2016, we delivered new releases of HiveManager that continued to expand our enterprise feature set and improve the user experience. In January 2017, we announced HiveManager Connect, a simplified version of HiveManager included as a part of our new Aerohive Connect product line designed for customers with less complex, connectivity-oriented requirements. Aerohive's Connect customers can purchase a perpetual license or subscription to upgrade to our current full-featured Aerohive Select offering to access additional capabilities, such as advanced security and troubleshooting tools, support for BYOD programs, increased network visibility, enterprise support options, and the ability to deploy HiveManager on-premises or in a private cloud environment. The capabilities of our scalable cloud platform enabled all of these innovations. Later in 2017 we also announced our SD-WAN solution for highly distributed commercial enterprises, retail chains, and long-term healthcare providers which, when combined with our existing SD-LAN offering, enables organizations to simplify branch deployments with a unified cloud-management Wi-Fi, switching, and SD-WAN VPN routing solution. In 2018, we announced our A3 cloud-managed NAC solution, Aerohive Atom AP30 pluggable access point, XR600P SD-WAN branch router, as well as our family of enterprise-class access points based on the developing 802.11ax standard. We plan to continue to expand our product offerings and solutions capabilities in the future and to dedicate significant resources to these research and development efforts. Manufacturing We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware products to ODMs currently located in China and Taiwan. We believe that using original design manufacturers helps to optimize our operations by lowering costs, reducing time-to-market and enabling us to adjust to changing end customer demand. Our ODM partners ship finished products to our warehousing and delivery logistics centers in the U.S., the Netherlands, Malaysia and China. We operate these logistic centers for all end customer shipments, whether destined to locations in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), or Asia Pacific and Japan ("APAC"). Our manufacturing partners procure components and assemble our products based on our demand forecasts. These forecasts represent our estimates at the time of future demand for our products, based upon historical trends and the assessment of our sales and product management functions of end customer demand and overall market conditions. Our ODMs source the component parts within our products. We do not contract directly and do not have any long-term manufacturing contracts that guarantee us any fixed access to such component parts or specific pricing. This absence of direct and long-term component supply contracts may increase our exposure to shortages of component availability and to price increases which the ODM or supplier may charge in response to increased product demand or fluctuations related to the raw material inputs for such components. In addition, during periods of continued fluctuating or flat customer demand for our products our ODMs may be required to slow the production rate for those products, thus increasing costs, extending time-to-market and otherwise creating uncertainty for our ODM relationships. Competition We operate in a competitive market for enterprise mobility and network-edge infrastructure, which continues to experience constant change and consolidation. Our competitors include general networking and independent Wi-Fi vendors, such as Cisco/Meraki, Hewlett-Packard/Aruba, Arris/Ruckus, Ubiquiti, Extreme Networks, Huawei and Riverbed/Xirrus whose portfolios include enterprise mobility solutions and wireless access products. 5 Trends in enterprise network infrastructures and mobility are all significantly increasing the importance of access networks and Wi-Fi to our target customers. As organizations address the proliferation of mobile devices, increased BYOD utilization, enterprise adoption of cloud and the adoption of mobile-first applications they compare competing access network and wireless infrastructure products based on: ability to address specific customer-use cases; ease-of-use and simplicity of solutions; price and total cost of ownership; flexibility and feature-depth of solutions; ability to meet deployment requirements; ability to support business or customer-facing applications; performance and scalability of products; network survivability and reliability of solutions; security of the network; and for service providers, ability to support business/operating models. We believe that we generally compete favorably on the combined basis of all of these factors. However, some of our competitors have better solutions for one or several of these factors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger sales and marketing budgets, broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end customers, and larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios which provide a greater ability to assemble, market, aggressively price and more quickly bring to market different capabilities across integrated product platforms. Other competitors are also working to grow their cloud-networking capabilities, an area that has been one of our key differentiators. Seasonality See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information regarding seasonality of our business. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. We rely on patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2018, we had 75 issued patents and 48 patent applications pending in the United States relating to our current and next-generation networking products, operating platform and cloud-based applications, and the ability to claim priority to most of the patent applications worldwide. Our patents issued in the U.S. will expire between 2028 and 2036. However, these patents or any patents that may issue to us in the future may be subject to re-examination, contest, circumvention, or found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may or may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing them. We also license software from third parties for integration into our products, including open-source software. We believe our licenses are on commercially reasonable terms. We utilize internal and external controls to restrict access to and use of our proprietary software and other confidential information, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, end customers and channel partners. Our software is also protected by U.S. and international copyright laws. However, despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets and proprietary rights through intellectual property rights, licenses and confidentiality agreements, and reasonable security measures, third parties may still copy our products or otherwise gain access to or obtain and use our proprietary software and technology without our knowledge or authority or in ways we do not intend. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, and competitors increasingly may utilize litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights to protect or expand their market position. In particular, leading and more mature companies in the wireless networking industry have extensive patent portfolios and are regularly involved in both offensive and defensive litigation. As end customers increasingly use our products and services, and to the extent that we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims from third parties, not only from our competitors but also increasingly from non-operating entities, who will be more likely to claim that our platform infringes their proprietary rights. From time-to-time, such third parties, including certain of these leading companies and, increasingly, non-operating entities, may assert patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our end customers. In these instances, our standard license and other agreements may obligate us to indemnify our channel partners and end customers against such claims. Successful claims of infringement by a third party could prevent us from distributing certain products or performing 6 certain services, require us to expend significant management attention and money to develop non-infringing solutions or force us to pay substantial damages, royalties or other fees. This could include treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights. We currently do not maintain insurance coverage against any such claims. In addition, our products utilize software modules under third-party open-source licenses, including as incorporated into software we receive from third-party commercial software vendors. Some open-source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open-source software that we use. If we combine our proprietary software with open-source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open-source licenses, be required to release portions of the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This could allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time, and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. We cannot assure that we do not currently infringe, or that we will not in the future infringe, or that we can resolve through litigation or on reasonable settlement terms, any such claims against us relating to, any third-party patents or other proprietary rights, including relating to use of third-party open source software. See Part I, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings and Part I, Item 1A - Risk Related to Our Intellectual Property for additional information. Employees As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately 460 employees in offices in the Americas, EMEA and APAC. None of our employees is represented by labor unions, whether in the United States or abroad. We consider all current employee relations to be good. However, we continue to see employee turn-over, particularly amongst our employees in Silicon Valley where competition is typically high for sales and engineering personnel. Corporate Information In March 2006, we incorporated our business in the State of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 1011 McCarthy Boulevard, Milpitas, CA 95035. Our telephone number at that location is (408) 510-6100. Our website address is www.aerohive.com. Information on our website is not part of this prospectus and should not be relied upon in determining whether to invest in our common stock. We are an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 ("JOBS Act"). We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.07 billion, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, or (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the prior three-year period. Website Posting of SEC Filings We make available on our website, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish them with the SEC. You can access these reports and amendments by clicking on the Company" and the "Investor tab, which will take you to our Investor Relations Home page. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. The contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as a part of, this report or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our website ( https://www.aerohive.com ) and, specifically, its Investor Relations Home page ( https://ir.aerohive.com ). This includes news and commentary about our business and financial performance, SEC filings, notices of investor events, press and earnings releases, and public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels as well as social media to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our services and other issues. We also provide corporate governance information, including our corporate governance guidelines, board / committee charters, and code of conduct, on the Investor Relations Home page of our website under the heading Corporate Governance. It is possible that this information, as well as information we post on social media, could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on our website and social media channels. However, the contents of our website and information we may post on social media channels are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website or social media channels are intended to be inactive textual references only. 7 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating Aerohive and our business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report, including our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following or other risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects could be materially harmed. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and we may not achieve profitability in the future. We manage our ongoing operating expenses in an effort to position us to achieve non-GAAP operating profitability at certain target levels of quarterly revenue, which we may announce publicly from time-to-time. We may subsequently take actions which could raise or lower the level of quarterly revenue we would need to achieve non-GAAP profitability in any period. Nonetheless, we have a history of losses. We have never achieved GAAP profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, and we cannot predict with certainty whether or when we might be profitable in the foreseeable future, even on a non-GAAP basis and even at these revenue levels. Our net losses on a GAAP basis were $38.2 million, $22.1 million and $18.3 million for fiscal years 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, our accumulated deficit was $265.8 million. We expect to continue to incur expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business, including expenditures to hire additional personnel: specifically, personnel costs relating to sales, marketing and engineering, and investments in channel and product development and support. As such, we may not control our expenses sufficiently to achieve operating profitability on a non-GAAP basis even if we achieve quarterly revenue in the indicated target range. If we fail to increase our revenue and manage our cost structure, we may not achieve profitability in the future. Once achieved, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability, at all or at levels our investors or industry analysts expect, or we may choose to continue to make investments in our operations which we feel will promote long-term growth, but which will reduce near-term profitability. This could also require us to continue to use available cash to support our investments and ongoing operations. As a result, our business and prospects, and how investors view and value our common stock, would be harmed. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results in any particular period or over an extended period to fall below expectations of investors or analysts. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect will continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. In particular, the timing and size of sales of our products and services, including results across regions, are highly variable and difficult for us to predict and can result in significant fluctuations in our revenue from period to period. Other participants in our industry have also experienced these fluctuations. As a result, our future results in any particular period or over any extended period may be difficult for us, our investors and analysts to predict. In addition, our planned expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future revenue. We may choose to maintain or increase levels of investment in areas such as R&D and sales and marketing, despite near-term fluctuations in revenue, in order to position us for continued growth. We also may reduce product prices in order to increase revenue growth and/or penetration of our products into targeted verticals. For example, in January 2017, we announced HiveManager Connect, a simplified version of HiveManager included as part of our new Aerohive Connect product line designed for customers with less complex connectivity-oriented requirements. Under the Aerohive Connect program, customers may purchase access points at lower list prices. Aerohive Connect customers can expand their Connect deployment, as needed, and can add subscriptions or licenses to upgrade to our full-featured Select offering and premium support services. We believe that separating our product line into these two offerings delivers attractively priced cloud-managed hardware for connectivity-oriented deployments and positions us to capture more subscription and software license revenue from those customers who require a more advanced feature set and support. However, this program may reduce our revenue, or the rate of our revenue growth, as purchasers take advantage of the lower entry pricing for our products. In addition, it may be difficult and take time for us to adjust expenses sufficiently to compensate for a shortfall in revenue, even when we may anticipate the shortfall. In such instances, even a small shortfall or seasonal fluctuation in revenue could disproportionately and adversely affect our overall operating margin, operating results and use of cash for a given quarter. Our operating results may also fluctuate due to a variety of other factors, both within and outside of our control and which we may not foresee, or which we may foresee but not effectively manage, including changing and volatile domestic and international economic environments, and demand for our products in general and from any particular vertical which may be a target market for our products. Such factors may cause our operating results and stock price to fluctuate. In addition to other risks listed in this Risk Factors section, factors that may affect our operating results include: 8 fluctuations in demand for our products and services, including seasonal variations, especially in the education vertical where purchasing in the United States has typically been stronger in the second and third quarters and weakest in the first and fourth quarters, and where purchasing at any time may depend on the availability of funding, including fluctuations based on the timing and availability of funding for schools under the Federal Communications Commission's ("FCC") E-Rate program and the decisions of schools to defer purchases in anticipation of the availability of such funding or due to a decision to delay product deployments; our ability to forecast and provide guidance to our investors and industry analysts regarding our revenue and operating results in any particular period, or to achieve results consistent with the guidance we provide; our ability to control operating expenses in order to achieve non-GAAP operating profitability in any particular quarterly period; our ability to hire, train, develop, integrate and retain a sufficient number of skilled sales and engineering employees to support our continued operations, including, specifically, in Silicon Valley, and to replace turn-over of our employees in these functions and location; the complexity, length and associated unpredictability of our sales cycles for our products and services; changes in end customers budgets for technology purchases and delays in their purchasing decisions and cycles; technical challenges in end-customer networks, which may be unrelated to our products, and which could delay adoption and installation and impact the operation of our products and purchases of our services; delay in development and availability of component parts, and volatility in the pricing for such parts, needed for development and timely introduction of our next-generation products and product features and continued availability of legacy products at volumes we need to meet demand; our ability to develop, increase and sustain sales capacity and efficiency and consistent sales productivity across all our sales territories; changes in the competitive dynamics of our target markets, including new entrants, further consolidation and pricing trends which suggest commoditization of certain product segments; variation in sales channels, product costs, prices or the mix of products we sell; the timing of our shipments of products to our distributors, the level of inventory we deliver and the associated revenue we recognize for such products under ASC 606; our contract manufacturers and component suppliers ability to meet our product demand forecasts on time, at acceptable prices and requested volumes, or at all, particularly with respect to our newer products; our ability to develop and make more productive relationships with our channel and strategic partners, including specifically Dell EMC and Juniper Networks, and such partners ability to effectively develop sales opportunities for us and distribute our products; the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors, such as next-generation products or product features; our ability to successfully expand the suite of products we sell and services we offer to existing end customers and channel partners, to timely introduce and effectively manage new product introductions and transition both of existing products and operating platforms and our end customers to these new products and services, including timely transition of our end customers to HiveManager and our Connect offering, and to limit disruption to our end customers ordering practices and the pricing environment for our legacy products and services while maintaining levels of revenue, gross margin and operating performance which we or our investors and analysts expect; our continuing transition to a channel-focused "Go-to-Market" selling model and our ability to maintain levels of revenue growth our investors and analysts may expect through this transition; our ability to identify and attract new customers for our products, while maintaining relationships with our existing customers, which is necessary to continued future revenue growth; our ability to predict and manage availability of our product effectively, in order to be able to take advantage of sales opportunities in a particular period; the potential need to record additional inventory reserves for products that may become obsolete or slow-moving due to our new product introductions, changes in end customer requirements, new competitive product or service offerings or our over-estimation of demand for such products as of any particular period; our decision to continue investing in sales, marketing, engineering and other activities in response to changes in the marketplace or perceived marketplace opportunities or in anticipation of or to position us for future growth; 9 our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of the components we purchase while continuing to derive benefits from our investments in sales, marketing, engineering and other activities; periods of continuing strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of the countries of our distributors or end customers who purchase our products, or of our contract manufacturers or the component suppliers to our contract manufacturers, which may require us to reduce pricing for our products outside the United States in order to maintain sales and revenue performance, or raise the cost we must pay to our manufacturers for our products, resulting in either case in lower revenue and/or gross margins for those products; volatility in our stock price, which may harm our ability to attract, incentivize and retain our employees using stock-based compensation; the ability of our competitors, including those with greater financial resources, to introduce new products, product features and services more quickly and in response to end customer demand and to drive down pricing on our products and services, which could materially reduce our revenue and gross margins; our ability to achieve as of any particular period or over time a level of financial performance consistent with the expectations of our investors and industry analysts; and general economic or political conditions in our domestic and international markets, including, specifically, in Europe, where the determination of the United Kingdom to exit the European Union has dampened economic activity and growth in the market for our product, or globally, where trade conditions and/or the introduction of tariffs or other barriers to trade, could increase the cost to us of component parts or of our products to our end customers. The effects of these factors, individually or in combination, create unpredictability in our operating results, our ability to forecast those results and our ability to achieve those forecasts. As a result, you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance and comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis, or anticipating our future results based on our public forecasts, may not be meaningful. This variability and unpredictability could also result in our failing to meet the expectations of our investors or financial analysts for any period. We may release guidance in our quarterly earnings conference calls, quarterly earnings releases, or otherwise, based on management predictions, which are necessarily speculative in nature. Our guidance may vary, and has varied, materially from actual results. For example, on January 16, 2018, we announced preliminary revenue results for our fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, which was below the revenue outlook we had provided for the period in November 2017 and the price of our common stock dropped significantly following our announcement in January 2018 of preliminary revenue results for the fourth quarter. We believe that different factors contributed to our disappointing revenue result in the period. For example, we believe poor sales execution issues were primarily responsible for our revenue short-fall in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2017. If our revenue or operating results, or the rate of growth of our revenue or operating results, fall below the expectations of our investors or financial analysts, or below any forecasts or guidance we may provide to the market, or if the forecasts we provide to the market are below the expectations of analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Such a stock price decline could occur even when we have met our own or other publicly stated revenue or earnings forecasts. Our failure to meet our own or other publicly stated revenue or earnings forecasts, or even when we meet our own forecasts but fall short of analyst or investor expectations, could cause our stock price to decline and expose us to costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. For example, purported class action law suits were filed in January 2018 asserting that statements we made in conjunction with our financial outlook for the fourth quarter of 2017 were false or misleading, or failed to include material information. See Note 5 - Commitments and Contingencies in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding these class action law suits. These suits and other potential such litigation against us could impose substantial costs and divert managements attention and resources. Our results are subject to seasonal variances, which make it difficult to compare or forecast our financial results on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Our revenue fluctuates on a seasonal basis, which affects the comparability of our results between periods. For example, our total revenue has historically decreased from our fourth quarter to the first quarter of our next fiscal year due to seasonal buying patterns and budget cycles from both our education and general enterprise end customers. Demand in the education vertical tends to be weakest in the first and fourth quarters. However, we also historically have seen a sequential increase in end-of-year purchases by enterprise customers in our fourth quarter, which we believe is mainly due to an expectation by such customers to complete purchases within their calendar-year budget cycles. These seasonal variations are difficult for us to predict accurately and at times may be entirely unpredictable or subject to our operating performance in any particular period. Our ability to sustain revenue growth from one quarter to subsequent quarters, particularly in our less-developed sales territories, or where we have experienced recent turn-over, introduces additional risk into our business and our ability to accurately provide our own publicly stated revenue and earnings forecasts. In addition, we rely upon forecasts of end customer demand to build inventory in advance of anticipated sales. We believe our seasonal business pattern has become more difficult to predict, making it more difficult for us to forecast product demand, inventory requirements and our financial results, 10 including on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Moreover, part of our strategy is to increase our sales in non-education verticals, and if the mix of products we sell in any particular period changes the seasonal nature of our revenue may change in an unpredictable way, which could increase the volatility of both our financial results and stock price. The market and demand for our products and services may not develop as we expect. Historically, our revenue has grown. However, this rate of growth has been slowing over the past few years. For example, our revenue decreased 9% from 2016 to 2017 but was relatively flat, increasing by 1% from 2017 to 2018. We expect this slow-to-flat rate of our revenue growth could continue and may even turn negative. As the general demand for wireless networking in the industry verticals that we target, or demand for our products in particular, slows, our revenue may continue to grow at a slower rate than we anticipate, or not at all. Part of our strategy depends upon expanding sales of our cloud-managed wireless networking, switching and routing products to medium and large enterprise headquarters, branch offices and teleworkers. We intend to continue to direct resources to improve HiveManager as the basis for data services and data analytics applications. Sales of such products, services and applications to enterprise end customers typically require long sales cycles and are subject to price sensitivity. Moreover, many potential end customers in the enterprise market have substantial network expertise and experience, which may require a more-costly and sophisticated marketing and sales strategy. It is unclear whether our end customers will pay for data analytics or other SaaS services we expect to provide or, instead, require us to provide them as enhancements to our support offerings (at no cost to them or incremental revenue to us). In January 2017, we announced HiveManager Connect, a simplified version of HiveManager included as part of our new Aerohive Connect product line designed for customers with less complex connectivity-oriented requirements. Under the Aerohive Connect program, customers may purchase access points with a simplified version of HiveManager, and community/email-based customer support, at lower list prices. Aerohive Connect customers can expand their Connect deployment, as needed, and can add subscriptions or licenses to upgrade to our full-featured Select offering and premium support services. Our Aerohive Connect and Select offerings are available across our entire portfolio of access points and switches. We believe that separating our product line into these two offerings delivers attractively priced cloud-managed hardware for connectivity-oriented deployments and will enable us to capture more subscription and software license revenue from those customers who require a more advanced feature set and support. This program may reduce our revenue, or the rate of our revenue growth, as purchasers take advantage of the lower entry pricing for our products. In addition, it is unclear whether our customers will choose the simplified Connect product offering, even at the lower list prices offered, or whether we will be able to manage the transition amongst our customers to our Connect offering. In addition, the rate at which shipments of our Connect business convert to revenue differs significantly from shipments of our Select business. It is difficult for us to predict for any period the mix of Connect and Select shipments. As such, even if we accurately forecast the total shipments for our products and services, the ultimate mix between Connect and Select shipments can lead to significantly different revenue we will recognize in the period, which could bring volatility and uncertainty to our operating results. The third quarter of our fiscal year 2017 was the first full quarter that our customers could choose between these two offerings. We believe that this difficulty to predict the specific mix of Connect and Select shipments during the quarter added uncertainty to our operating results for this quarter and continues to do so. Furthermore, if our competitors offer services or provide technologies or application platforms superior to our current cloud-managed platform, or the new products and services we introduce, alone or as part of a more-integrated offering or at reduced pricing, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result, demand for our products, services and applications may not continue to develop as we anticipate, or at all. In addition, if new customers do not purchase our Connect products, or having purchased our Connect products they do not also purchase subscriptions to our Select offering, or if our existing customers migrate toward Connect products without also continuing to purchase our Select services and support offerings, in each case at all or at levels greater than we assume, our overall revenue, operating performance and margins could decline, perhaps significantly, making more difficult our ability to demonstrate growth and achieve profitability at expected revenue levels, and the value of our stock could decline. A significant portion of our sales is concentrated in the education vertical, which may cause us to have longer sales cycles, and be subject to program funding uncertainties and constraints. A significant portion of our revenue is concentrated in the education vertical. The majority of our sales in education is concentrated in both public and private K-12 institutions. This vertical is characterized by long sales cycles and often requires additional sales efforts. In addition, this vertical typically operates on limited budgets, and depends on annual budget approvals, which add additional uncertainty to the sales cycle. For example, the U.S. federal government is providing supplemental funding to local school districts in conjunction with its E-Rate initiative to assist districts to upgrade their technical infrastructure, including Wi-Fi infrastructure. The announced incremental federal funding is significant and available over a five-year period, which began in the second half of 2015. However, this program has been subject to uncertainty regarding its 11 eligibility criteria, the timing and specific amount of federal funding actually available during each annual funding cycle, and federal program guidelines and funding appropriations, each of which can change from year-to-year. Corresponding funding appropriation by respective states and local districts is also uncertain and, even upon such appropriation, local districts must still then submit and have approved applications consistent with the final timing and eligibility requirements of the federal program for that annual funding cycle. The United Service Administrative Company ("USAC") experienced significant administrative challenges during 2016 and 2017 E-Rate cycles, causing the pace of release of approved funds and resulting availability of those funds to schools to continue to be significantly reduced. For example, the Federal Communications Commission publicly acknowledged USAC's continuing management of the E-Rate program by letter dated April 18, 2017, noting serious and persistent flaws in critical E-Rate processes which have caused persistent delays in funding commitments to schools and libraries. We believe that the significantly slower pace of E-Rate funding and other program execution issues were significant drivers of our weaker-than-expected order volume and lower revenue performance from our educational vertical in recent quarters. We believe that lower levels of E-Rate-funded transactions continued through 2018, and could also continue into 2019. These are specific examples of the many factors which add additional uncertainty to our future revenue from our educational end customers. Our sales cycles often require significant time, effort and investment and are subject to risks relating to our operating performance. Our sales efforts can take several quarters and involve educating our potential customers about the applications and benefits of our products, including the technical capabilities of our products and associated applications and services, and recruiting and developing our channel partners. We may experience slower-than-expected sales productivity or poor sales execution in certain territories, including in the United States and certain other regions where we continue to experience turn-over and poor sales efficiency in our Sales organization. For example, we changed our sales leadership in November 2017 and again in October 2018, and have made additional personnel and other changes in our sales organization as we continued to identify underlying sales execution issues. We continue to review our sales organization and make changes we believe will further develop and sustain efficiency and effectiveness within the organization and our channel operations. As we respond to turn-over or transition personnel in response to poor execution, newly hired personnel may also require several quarters to gain experience and develop their territories before achieving capacities we have assumed in our sales forecasts. This may slow in those regions our ability to maintain our rate of new customer acquisitions. We believe poor sales execution and lack of improvements to our sales productivity may continue to reduce our revenue performance in 2019. In addition, sales to our enterprise customers may also involve an extended sales cycle, and often initial purchases are small. Purchases of our products are also frequently subject to our end customers budget constraints, multiple approvals, unplanned administrative processing and other risks and delays. Such end customers, in particular larger enterprise customers, also may hesitate to place orders with us, instead preferring our larger and longer-established competitors. We need to develop new products and continue to make enhancements to our existing products to remain competitive in a rapidly changing market. The technology and end customer demand in the wireless networking market change rapidly, which requires us to continuously develop and release new products and product features and associated applications and services. We must continuously anticipate and adapt to our end customers needs and market trends, and continue to make investments to develop or acquire new products, applications and services that meet market demands, technology trends and regulatory requirements. If our competitors introduce new products, applications and services that compete with ours, we may be required to reposition our product offerings or introduce new products in response to such competitive pressure. We may also offer products and services, and/or combinations thereof at lower price points in order to broaden our penetration in the enterprise market. Developing our products is challenging and involves substantial commitment of resources and significant development risk. Each phase in our product development presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could impact the timing and cost-effective development of products, and each of which could affect our ability to take advantage of a business opportunity or could jeopardize end customer acceptance of the product. Compared to our larger and longer-established competitors, our ability to develop and timely deliver new products and product functionality is limited. We also have experienced in the past and may in the future experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements. For example, we are currently bringing to market our family of next-generation Wi-Fi products, including our .11ax, SD-WAN and SD-LAN portfolio of products, and our HiveManager cloud-services platform providing cloud-delivered network management applications and on-premises network management, as well as supporting data structures, analytics and APIs. We also have announced programs to develop new data analytics services and API and security platforms. In 2018 we announced our A3 cloud-managed NAC solution, Aerohive Atom AP30 pluggable access point, XR600P SD-WAN branch router and our family of enterprise-class access points based on the developing 802.11ax standard. These are complex technical undertakings and subject to many variables and risks of delay. 12 If we fail to develop new products, product enhancements applications or services, or fail effectively to manage the introduction or transition of our end customers to these new products, product enhancements, applications or services, or our end customers or potential end customers do not perceive our products, product enhancements, applications or services to have compelling technical or cost-based advantages, our business and prospects could be adversely affected, particularly if our competitors are able to introduce solutions at lower prices and/or with increased functionality. In addition, our introduction of new or enhanced products requires that we carefully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customer ordering practices and ensure that new products can be timely delivered to meet our end customers demand and to limit inventory obsolescence. For example, in January 2017, we announced HiveManager Connect, a simplified version of HiveManager included as part of our new Aerohive Connect product line designed for customers with less complex connectivity-oriented requirements. Under the Aerohive Connect program, customers may purchase access points with a simplified version of HiveManager, and community/email-based customer support, at lower list prices. Aerohive Connect customers can expand their Connect deployment, as needed, and can add subscriptions or licenses to our full-featured Select offering and premium support services. We believe that separating our product line into these two offerings delivers attractively priced cloud-managed hardware for connectivity-oriented deployments and positions us to capture more subscription and software license revenue from those customers who require a more advanced feature set and support. This program may reduce our revenue, or the rate of our revenue growth, as purchasers take advantage of the lower entry pricing for our products. If our customers, both new and existing, choose the simplified and lower-priced Connect product offering, as an alternative to our Select offering, we could see a shift in the mix of these product offerings, thus reducing overall revenue, gross margins and ability to achieve profitability. Further, after delivering new products we may identify and must then timely address performance issues as the products are used in the field in a particular environment or at a scale which we could not replicate or did not anticipate during development. Our end customers may also defer decisions to purchase our existing products in anticipation of our expected release of a next-generation product. We also may not correctly anticipate customer interest in or demand for new products and offerings, such as our A3 cloud-managed NAC solution, Aerohive Atom AP30 pluggable access point and family of enterprise-class access points based on the developing 802.11ax standard, as well as our data analytics services or API and security platforms, or our customers may expect that we provide these additional services as part of our existing product support (and at no cost to them or incremental revenue to us). If we do not carefully manage the timing of our new products or product feature releases, and effectively support the new products and product feature releases, we could interfere with our end customers purchases and disrupt the pricing environment for our new and legacy products, which could drive down our revenues and operating margins. As a result of these and other risks, we may not be successful in modifying our current products or introducing new products in a timely or appropriately responsive manner, or at all. If we fail to address these changes successfully, our business and operating results and prospects would be materially harmed. Our gross margin will vary over time and may decline in the future. Our gross margin was 65.8% , 67.4% and 67.3% for fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our gross margin will vary over time, may be difficult to predict and may continue to decline in future periods. Our gross margin also varies across our product lines and, therefore, a change in the mix of products our end customers purchase in any period would likely have a significant impact on our overall gross margin in the period. During periods where our subscription and support services and deferred revenue we recognize in the quarter may disproportionately contribute to our overall revenue mix our overall gross margins for the period may similarly exceed our public guidance or internal forecasts. This may be true even where our gross margins from product revenue may be declining, whether due to our planned transition of sales from perpetual software licenses to subscriptions, declining product sales in general, competitive product or pricing pressures or our end customers choosing lower-priced products, including our own, such as our Connect offering. When the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies is strong, we may reduce pricing for our products outside the United States in order to maintain sales and revenue performance, or incur higher manufacturing costs, each of which would lower gross margins for those products. The market for wireless networking products is also characterized by rapid innovation and declining average sales prices as products mature in the market place. Even if we are successful in launching new products, competition may continue to increase in the market segments in which we compete, which would likely result in increased pricing competition. To retain our average gross margin, we are required to continuously update our products and introduce new products and reduce our manufacturing costs and expenses, and we could fail to accomplish this. In addition, the sales prices for our products and services may decline for a variety of reasons, including sales strategy, competitive pricing pressures, customer demand, discounts, a change in the mix of products and services we sell, including seasonal changes in our end customers ordering practices, anticipation of the introduction of new products or services and decisions by end customers to defer purchases, or promotional programs. Larger competitors, such as Cisco/Meraki, Hewlett-Packard/Aruba, Arris/Ruckus, Ubiquiti, Extreme 13 Networks, Riverbed/Xirrus and Huawei, each with significantly greater financial, sales, and engineering resources and/or more diverse product and service offerings, may reduce the price of their products or services that compete with ours or may bundle them with other products and services. If we do not similarly reduce our product manufacturing costs, or if we reduce our prices for such products or services in order to remain competitive, our gross margin and revenue will decline. Any such declines in our gross margins or revenue could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. As a result of being a public company, we need to further develop and maintain our internal control over financial reporting. If our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, it may adversely affect investor confidence in our company. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ("SOX"), to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, which would include a disclosure of any material weaknesses our management identifies in our internal control over financial reporting. We continue to develop our systems and documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete on an annual and ongoing basis our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. Further, our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an "emerging growth company," as defined by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the "JOBS Act") which will be commencing with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. To comply with the requirements of SOX, we are undertaking various actions, such as implementing new