Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries ("HP") may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, deferred tax assets, share repurchases, currency exchange rates or other financial items; any projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or restructuring charges; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including, the execution of restructuring plans and any resulting cost savings, revenue or profitability improvements; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing HP's businesses; the competitive pressures faced by HP's businesses; risks associated with executing HP's strategy, including the planned separation transaction; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the need to manage third-party suppliers and the distribution of HP's products and the delivery of HP's services effectively; the protection of HP's intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties; risks associated with HP's international operations; the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, clients and partners; the hiring and retention of key employees; integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the items discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part I of this report and that are otherwise described or updated from time to time in HP's Securities and Exchange Commission reports. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business. Business Overview We are a leading global provider of products, technologies, software, solutions and services to individual consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. HP was incorporated in 1947 under the laws of the state of California as the successor to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard. Effective in May 1998, we changed our state of incorporation from California to Delaware. HP Separation Transaction On November 1, 2015 (the "Distribution Date"), Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company ("Hewlett Packard Enterprise"), Hewlett-Packard Company's former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the "Separation"). In connection with the Separation, Hewlett-Packard Company changed its name to HP Inc. Accordingly, references to the "company" in this report refer to Hewlett-Packard Company with respect to events occurring on or prior to October 31, 2015, and to HP Inc. with respect to events occurring after October 31, 2015. On November 1, 2015, each of our stockholders of record as of the close of business on October 21, 2015 (the "Record Date") received one share of Hewlett Packard Enterprise common stock for every one share of our common stock held as of the Record Date. Hewlett Packard Enterprise is now an independent public company trading on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "HPE". After the Separation, we do not beneficially own any shares of Hewlett Packard Enterprise common stock and beginning November 1, 2015, we no longer consolidate Hewlett Packard Enterprise within our financial results or reflect the financial results of Hewlett Packard Enterprise within our continuing results of operations. The historical results of operations and the financial position of Hewlett Packard Enterprise are included in the consolidated financial statements of HP Inc. for each of the fiscal years included in this report and will be reported as discontinued operations beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. HP Products and Services; Segment Information Our offerings span the following: personal computing and other access devices; imaging- and printing-related products and services; enterprise information technology ("IT") infrastructure, including enterprise server and storage technology, networking products and solutions, technology support and maintenance; multi-vendor customer services, including technology consulting, outsourcing and support services across infrastructure, applications and business process domains; and software products and solution, including application testing and delivery software, big data analytics, information governance and IT Operations Management. We offer one of the IT industry's broadest portfolios of products and services that bring together infrastructure, software, and services through innovation to enable our customers to create value and solve business problems. As consumers and enterprises shift the way technology is created, delivered, 4 Table of Contents consumed and paid for, they are demanding a foundation that will support much greater agility, lower cost, facilitate quicker time-to-market, and provide a higher degree of accessibility by end-users to that technology. We design our solutions to provide that foundation, particularly in the areas of security, cloud, mobility and big data, by leveraging the breadth of our offerings and the strengths and capabilities of our individual business units. Our operations are organized into seven business segments: Personal Systems; Printing; the Enterprise Group ("EG"); Enterprise Services ("ES"); Software; HP Financial Services ("HPFS"); and Corporate Investments. As a result of the Separation, effective November 1, 2015 EG, ES, Software, HPFS and certain parts of Corporate Investments are no longer reported in the continuing results of HP Inc. Personal Systems, Printing and the remaining parts of Corporate Investments segments will be HP Inc.'s reportable segments. In each of the past three fiscal years, notebook personal computers ("PCs"), printing supplies, infrastructure technology outsourcing services, desktop PCs and industry standard servers ("ISS") each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. The Personal Systems segment and the Printing segment are structured beneath a broader Printing and Personal Systems Group ("PPS"). While PPS is not a reportable segment, we may provide financial data aggregating the Personal Systems and Printing segments to provide a supplementary view of its business. A summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments along with a description of our fiscal 2015 organizational realignments can be found in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. A discussion of factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Printing and Personal Systems Group The mission of PPS is to leverage the respective strengths of the Personal Systems segment and the Printing segment by creating a unified business that is customer-focused and poised to capitalize on rapidly shifting industry trends. Each of the business segments within PPS is described in detail below. Personal Systems Personal Systems provides commercial PCs, consumer PCs, workstations, thin client PCs, tablets, retail point-of-sale ("POS") systems, calculators and other related accessories, software, support and services for the commercial and consumer markets. We group commercial notebooks, commercial desktops, commercial tablets, workstations and thin clients into commercial clients and consumer notebooks and consumer desktops into consumer clients when describing performance in these markets. Both commercial and consumer PCs and tablets are based predominately on Microsoft Windows operating systems and use processors from Intel Corporation ("Intel") and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD"). Personal Systems also maintains a multi-operating system, multi-architecture strategy using the Google Chrome and Android operating systems for notebooks and tablets, respectively. Commercial PCs. Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers including enterprise and SMB customers, and for connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked environments. Commercial PCs include the HP ProBook and HP EliteBook lines of notebooks and hybrids (detachable tablets), the HP Pro and HP Elite lines of business desktops and all-in-ones, retail POS systems, HP Thin Clients, HP ElitePad and HP Pro Tablet PCs. Commercial PCs also include workstations that are designed and optimized for high-performance and demanding application environments including Z desktop workstations, Z all-in-ones and Z mobile workstations. 5 Table of Contents Consumer PCs. Consumer PCs include the HP Spectre, HP ENVY, HP Pavilion, HP Chromebook, HP Split and HP Slate series of multi-media consumer notebooks, hybrids and desktops, including the TouchSmart line of touch-enabled notebooks and all-in-one desktops. Printing Printing provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, media, software and services, as well as scanning devices. Printing is also focused on imaging solutions in the commercial markets. These solutions range from managed print services to areas such as industrial applications, outdoor signage and the graphic arts business. HP groups LaserJet, large format printers and commercial inkjet printers into Commercial Hardware and consumer and SMB inkjet printers into Consumer Hardware when describing performance in these markets. LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions. LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions delivers LaserJet and enterprise products, services and solutions to the SMB and enterprise segments including LaserJet printers and supplies (toner), Officejet Pro X inkjet enterprise products and supplies, multi-function devices, scanners, web-connected hardware, managed services, and enterprise software solutions such as Web Jetadmin. Managed Print Services provides printing equipment, supplies, support, workflow optimization and security features for SMB and enterprise customers around the world, utilizing proprietary HP tools and fleet management solutions, as well as third-party software. Inkjet and Printing Solutions. Inkjet and Printing Solutions deliver consumer and SMB inkjet solutions (hardware, ink supplies, media, and web-connected hardware and services) and include single-function and all-in-one inkjet printers. Ongoing initiatives and programs, such as Ink in the Office and Ink Advantage, and newer initiatives, such as Instant Ink, are intended to provide innovative printing solutions to consumers and SMBs. Our Ink in the Office initiative is focused on providing high value inkjet printing solutions to SMBs through our Officejet Premium and Officejet Pro inkjet portfolios. Our Ink Advantage program aims to provide savings on the overall cost of printing in emerging markets. Instant Ink is an ink replacement service that allows customers to pay a monthly fee to print a specified number of pages per month. Graphics Solutions. Graphics Solutions deliver large format printers (Designjet, Large Format Production and Scitex Industrial), specialty printing, digital press solutions (Indigo and Inkjet Webpress), supplies and services to print service providers and design and rendering customers. The solutions cover a wide range of printing applications such as technical design, photos, sign and display, direct mail, marketing collateral, labels and packaging, and publishing. Software and Web Services. Software and Web Services delivers a suite of offerings, including document storage, entertainment services, web-connected printing, and PC back-up and related services. Marketing Optimization. Marketing Optimization focuses on delivering solutions and software that help businesses engage audiences, reach new customer segments and markets and deliver compelling content across channels. The group provides solutions for augmented reality, contact center analytics, customer communications management and digital experience management. Enterprise Group EG provides a broad portfolio of enterprise technology solutions to address customer needs in building the foundation for the next generation of applications, web services and user experienceswhich are only as rich, impactful and world-changing as the infrastructure platforms that they sit on. EG technology addresses a wide range of customer challenges, including supporting new types of applications, new approaches to IT operations, and new demands and uses for insight, and managing new threats and risks. EG technology also allows customers to capitalize on a wide range of trends and 6 Table of Contents opportunities, from servicing new segments and buying behaviors to inventing new consumption models and creating new revenue streams. EG technology delivers customer outcomes through its innovative, industry leading portfolio across servers, storage, networking, management software, converged infrastructure solutions, and technology services. In today's rapidly changing technology landscape, customers face twin challenges when it comes to their infrastructure foundation: they must optimize their "traditional IT" to support existing applications, and they must simultaneously invest in "cloud-first, mobile-first" infrastructure that will support the next generation of applications, web services and user experiences. The EG portfolio delivers products and services across servers, storage and networking to reduce cost and continue high performance operations for traditional IT loads. For tomorrow's cloud-first, mobile first workloads, the EG portfolio provides products and services across converged solutions engineered for the world's most important workloads in cloud, mobility, infrastructure-as-a-service, and big data; HP OneView as the industry's only unified display software-defined infrastructure management solution; HP Helion cloud portfolio delivering a broad offering of hybrid cloud solutions, cloud services and cloud software; and technology services to advise customers on the right path to transforming their enterprises for tomorrow's digital era. Industry Standard Servers. ISS offers a range of products from entry-level servers through premium ProLiant servers, which run primarily Windows, Linux and virtualization platforms from software providers such as Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") and VMware, Inc. ("VMware"), and open source software from other major vendors while leveraging x86 processors from Intel and AMD. The business spans a range of server product lines, including microservers, towers, traditional rack, density-optimized rack and blades, solutions for large, distributed computing companies who buy and deploy nodes at a massive scale. ISS also offers HP Moonshot servers operating on ARM, AMD and Intel Atom-based processors which offer reduced cost, space, energy and complexity compared to traditional servers. Business Critical Systems. Business Critical Systems delivers our mission-critical systems through a portfolio of HP Integrity servers based on the Intel Itanium processor that run the HP-UX and OpenVMS operating systems, as well as HP Integrity NonStop solutions and mission-critical x86 ProLiant servers. Storage. Our storage offerings include platforms for enterprise and SMB environments. Our flagship product is the 3PAR StoreServ Storage Platform, which is designed for virtualization, cloud and IT-as-a-service. Traditional Storage solutions include tape, storage networking and legacy external disk products such as EVA and XP. Converged Storage solutions include 3PAR StoreServ, StoreOnce and StoreVirtual products. These offerings enable customers to optimize their existing storage systems, build new virtualization solutions and facilitate their transition to cloud computing. Networking. Our networking offerings include switches, routers, wireless local area network ("WLAN") and network management products that deliver open, scalable, secure, agile and consistent solutions that span the data center, campus and branch environments and deliver software-defined networking and unified communications capabilities. Our unified wired and wireless networking offerings include WLAN access points, controllers and switches. Our networking solutions are based on our FlexNetwork architecture, which is designed to enable simplified server virtualization, unified communications and business application delivery for the enterprise. Software-defined networking provides an end-to-end solution to automate the network from data center to campus and branch. Technology Services. Technology Services provides Support and Consulting services. Support services offerings span various levels of customer support needs and include: HP Foundation Care, our portfolio of reactive hardware and software support services; HP Proactive Care, which combines remote support technology for real time monitoring with rapid access to our technical experts; HP Datacenter Care, comprehensive, flexible end-to-end support that enables customers to build, operate or consume IT in private or hybrid cloud environments; and Lifecycle Event services, which are event 7 Table of Contents based services, offering our technology expertise and advice for each phase of the technology life cycle. These services are available in the form of service contracts, pre-packaged offerings (HP Care Pack services) or on a customized basis. Consulting services are focused on cloud, mobility and big data and provide IT organizations with advice, design, implementation, migration and optimization of EG's platforms: servers, storage, networking and converged infrastructure. Enterprise Services ES provides technology consulting, outsourcing and support services across infrastructure, applications and business process domains in traditional and Strategic Enterprise Services offerings which includes analytics and data management, security and cloud services. ES leverages our investments in our consulting and support professionals, infrastructure technology, applications, standardized methodologies and global supply and delivery capabilities. ES also creates opportunities for us to market additional hardware and software by offering solutions that leverage our other products and services in order to meet our clients' needs. Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing. The Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing group delivers comprehensive services that streamline and help optimize our clients' technology infrastructure to efficiently enhance performance, reduce costs, mitigate risk and enable business optimization. These services encompass the management of data centers, IT security, cloud computing, workplace technology, networks, unified communications and enterprise service management. We also offer a set of managed services that provide a cross-section of our broader infrastructure services for smaller, discrete engagements. Application and Business Services. The Application and Business Services portfolio helps our clients develop, revitalize and manage their applications and information assets. Our complete application lifecycle approach encompasses application development, testing, modernization, system integration, maintenance and management for both packaged and custom-built applications and cloud offerings. Our Application and Business Services portfolio also includes intellectual property-based industry solutions, along with technologies and related services, all of which help our clients better manage their critical industry processes for customer relationship management, finance and administration, human resources, payroll and document processing. Software Software portfolio provides big data analytics and applications, enterprise security, application testing and delivery management and IT Operations Management solutions for businesses and other enterprises of all sizes. Our Software offerings include licenses, support, professional services and software-as-a-service ("SaaS"). Our global business capabilities within Software are described below. Big Data. Big Data group provides a full suite of software designed to help organizations capture, store, explore, analyze, protect and share information and insights within and outside their organizations to improve business outcomes, while also enabling them to manage risks and meet legal obligations. Our Big Data suite includes HP Vertica, the leading analytics database technology for machine, structured and semi-structured data; HP IDOL, a unique analytics tool for human information; as well as solutions for archiving, data protection, eDiscovery, information governance and enterprise content management. Our big data platform, Haven, brings these unique assets together for processing and understanding machine and sensor data, business data and unstructured human information. A growing ecosystem of customers, partners and developers use this platform to build big data driven analytic applications. Our Software segment also leverages Haven's unique analytic assets to deliver purpose-built solutions for a variety of markets, including application testing and delivery, big data analytics and applications, IT Operations Management, and enterprise security. These solutions are designed for businesses and enterprises of all sizes, and are available via on-premise, as well as via SaaS and hybrid delivery models. Software's Haven big data platform and purpose-built applications are augmented by our support and professional services offerings in order to provide an end-to-end solution to customers. 8 Table of Contents Application Delivery Management. The Application Delivery Management group provides software that enables organizations to deliver high-performance applications, accelerating the application delivery lifecycle and automating the testing processes to ensure the quality and scalability of desktop, web, mobile and cloud-based applications. Enterprise Security. Enterprise Security software is designed to disrupt fraud, hackers and cyber criminals by testing and scanning software and websites for security vulnerabilities, improving network defenses and security, implementing security controls, safeguarding data at rest, in motion and in use (regardless of where software and data reside), and providing security intelligence, analytics, and information management to identify threats and manage risk. IT Operations Management. The IT Operations Management group provides the software required to automate routine IT tasks and to pinpoint IT problems as they occur, helping enterprises to reduce operational costs and improve the reliability of applications running in a traditional, cloud or hybrid environment. HP Financial Services HPFS provides flexible investment solutions for our customers, such as leasing, financing, IT consumption and utility programs and asset management services that facilitate unique technology deployment models and the acquisition of complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services from HP and others. In order to provide flexible services and capabilities that support the entire IT lifecycle, HPFS partners with our customers globally to help build investment strategies that enhance their business agility and support their business transformation. HPFS offers a wide selection of investment solution capabilities for large enterprise customers and channel partners, along with an array of financial options to SMBs and educational and governmental entities. Corporate Investments Corporate Investments includes HP Labs, certain enterprise-related business incubation projects and venture focused minority investments, among others. Sales, Marketing and Distribution We manage our business and report our financial results based on the business segments described above. Our customers are organized by consumer and commercial groups, and purchases of HP products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by HP or indirectly through a variety of partners, including: retailers that sell our products to the public through their own physical or Internet stores; resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer groups; distribution partners that supply our solutions to resellers; original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products and services with their own products and services, and sell the integrated solution; independent software vendors that provide their clients with specialized software products and often assist us in selling our products and services to clients purchasing their products; systems integrators that provide expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions and often partner with us to extend their expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and 9 Table of Contents advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and typically partner with us on client solutions that require our unique products and services. The mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts accordingly. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our coverage, in addition to identifying efficiencies and productivity gains, in both our direct and indirect businesses. While each of our business segments manages the execution of its own go-to-market and distribution strategy, our business segments also collaborate to ensure strategic and process alignment where appropriate. For example, we typically assign an account manager to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise. For other customers and for consumers, PPS typically manages direct online sales as well as channel relationships with retailers, while our business segments collaborate to manage relationships with commercial resellers targeting SMBs where appropriate. Manufacturing and Materials We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers ("OMs") around the world to manufacture HP-designed products. The use of OMs is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for HP-designed products. We use multiple OMs to maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, third-party OEMs produce products that we purchase and resell under the HP brand. In addition to our use of OMs, we currently manufacture a limited number of finished products from components and subassemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. We utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customer's particular hardware and software customization requirements. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing shortly before the sale or distribution of products to our customers. We purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such alternate sources of supply are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for laser printer engines, LaserJet supplies, certain customized parts and parts for products with short life cycles (although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations in the event of a disruption). We are dependent upon Intel and AMD as suppliers of x86 processors and Microsoft for various software products; however, we believe that disruptions with these suppliers would result in industry-wide dislocations and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See "Risk FactorsWe depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Like other participants in the IT industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our demand requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we may experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources. Frequently, we are able to obtain scarce components for somewhat higher prices on the open market, which may have an impact on our gross margin but does not generally disrupt production. We also may acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing 10 Table of Contents commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supplies. See "Risk FactorsWe depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. International Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis for both consumer and enterprise customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset geographic economic trends and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. In addition, we believe that future growth is dependent in part on our ability to develop products and sales models that target developing countries. In this regard, we believe that our broad geographic presence gives us a solid base on which to build such future growth. A summary of our domestic and international net revenue and net property, plant and equipment is set forth in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 64% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2015 came from outside the United States ("U.S."). For a discussion of risks attendant to HP's international operations, see "Risk FactorsDue to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our business and financial performance," in Item 1A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk," in Item 7A and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. Research and Development Innovation is a key element of our culture. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires, and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and the areas where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers' experiences. HP Labs, together with the various research and development groups within our business segments, are responsible for our research and development efforts. HP Labs is part of our Corporate Investments segment. Expenditures for research and development were $3.5 billion in fiscal 2015, $3.4 billion in fiscal 2014 and $3.1 billion in fiscal 2013. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our competitive position. For a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see "Risk FactorsIf we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Patents Our general policy has been to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At October 31, 2015, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 33,000 patents, which represents a slight decrease over the number of patents in our portfolio at the end of fiscal 2014. As a result of the Separation, approximately 15,000 patents were transferred to Hewlett Packard Enterprise beginning November 1, 2015. 11 Table of Contents Patents generally have a term of twenty years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to HP as a whole or to any of HP's business segments. In addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property ("IP") from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses, and other rights, under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. For a discussion of risks attendant to IP rights, see "Risk FactorsOur financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Backlog We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects due to our diverse products and services portfolio, including the large volume of products delivered from finished goods or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our overall business. Seasonality General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our products and services experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months and consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. See "Risk FactorsOur uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Competition We encounter strong competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software and internet infrastructure offerings. The markets for each of our business segments are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. Most product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. We have a broad technology portfolio spanning personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing-related products and services, enterprise IT infrastructure products and solutions, 12 Table of Contents multi-vendor customer services and IT management software and solutions. We are the leader or among the leaders in each of our business segments. The competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below: Personal Systems. The markets in which Personal Systems operates are highly competitive and are characterized by price competition. The decline in the PC market and the ongoing shift among customers to mobility products has further intensified competition in the PC market. Our primary competitors are Lenovo Group Limited ("Lenovo"), Dell Inc. ("Dell"), Acer Inc., ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Apple Inc., Toshiba Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. ("Samsung"). In particular regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white box" manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product portfolio, our innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and support offerings and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. Printing. The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive. Printing's key customer segments each face competitive market pressures in pricing and the introduction of new products. Our primary competitors include Canon U.S.A., Inc., Lexmark International, Inc., Xerox Corporation Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, The Ricoh Company Ltd., Samsung and Brother Industries, Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer refill and remanufactured alternatives for HP original inkjet and toner supplies, which are often available for lower prices but generally offer lower print quality and reliability. Other competitors also have developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for HP's laser and inkjet products, particularly outside of the U.S. where IP protection is inadequate or ineffective. Our competitive advantages include our comprehensive solutions for the home, office and publishing environments, our innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand, and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. Enterprise Group. EG operates in the highly competitive enterprise technology infrastructure market that is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. Our primary competitors include technology vendors such as International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), Dell, EMC Corporation ("EMC"), Cisco Systems, Inc. ("Cisco"), Lenovo, Oracle Corporation ("Oracle"), Fujitsu Limited ("Fujitsu"), Inspur Co. Ltd., Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., NetApp, Inc., Hitachi Ltd., Juniper Networks, Inc., Arista Networks, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., Brocade Communications Systems, Inc., VMware, Microsoft, Google Inc., Rackspace Inc., and Amazon.com, Inc. ("Amazon"). In certain regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white-box" manufacturers. Our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong IP portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. Enterprise Services. ES competes in the IT services, consulting and integration, infrastructure technology outsourcing, business process outsourcing and application services markets. Our primary competitors include IBM Global Services, Computer Sciences Corporation, systems integration firms such as Accenture plc and offshore companies such as Fujitsu and India-based competitors Wipro Limited, Infosys Limited and Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. We also compete with other traditional hardware providers, such as Dell, which are increasingly offering services to support their products, new players in emerging areas like cloud such as Amazon, and smaller local players. Many of our competitors offer a wide range of global services, and some of our competitors enjoy significant brand recognition. ES teams with many companies to offer services, and those arrangements allow us to 13 Table of Contents extend our reach and augment our capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our deep technology expertise, especially in complex multi-country, multi-vendor and/or multi-language environments, our differentiated intellectual property, our strong track record of collaboration with clients and partners, and the combination of our expertise in infrastructure management with skilled global resources on platforms from SAP AG ("SAP"), Oracle and Microsoft, among others. Software. The markets in which our Software segment operates are characterized by rapidly changing customer requirements and technologies. We design and develop enterprise IT management software in competition with IBM, CA Technologies, Inc., VMware, BMC Software, Inc. and others. Our big data solutions, which include data analytics, information governance and digital marketing offerings incorporating both structured and unstructured data, compete with products from companies like Adobe Systems Inc., IBM, EMC, Open Text Corporation, Oracle and Symantec Corporation. We also deliver enterprise security/risk intelligence solutions that compete with products from EMC, IBM, Cisco and Intel. As customers are becoming increasingly comfortable with newer delivery mechanisms such as SaaS, we are facing competition from smaller, less traditional competitors, particularly for customers with smaller IT organizations. Our differentiation lies in the breadth and depth of our software, our collaboration with EG and ES to provide comprehensive IT solutions and services portfolio and the scope of our market coverage. HP Financial Services. In our financing business, our competitors are captive financing companies, mainly IBM Global Financing, as well as banks and other financial institutions in our financing business. We believe our competitive advantage in this business over banks and other financial institutions is our ability to deliver flexible investment solutions and expertise that help customers and other partners create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs. For a discussion of risks attendant to these competitive factors, see "Risk FactorsWe operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Environment Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. Many of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. Some of our products also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements applicable to their energy consumption. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating to climate change. We are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). In the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions and we could face other sanctions, including fines. Our operations, and ultimately our products, are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and international treaties relating to climate change. 14 Table of Contents As these laws, regulations, treaties and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that HP technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with related laws, regulations and treaties. We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. We meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services. A liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when we consider it probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. For a discussion of risks attendant to these environmental factors, see "Risk FactorsOur business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, for a discussion of our environmental contingencies see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is also incorporated herein by reference. Executive Officers The following are our current executive officers: Rob Binns; age 47; Head of Global Treasury and Investor Relations Mr. Binns has served as Head of Global Treasury and Investor Relations since November 2015. Mr. Binns joined Hewlett-Packard Company in 2006 as Finance Director for HP Software in the Europe, Middle East and Africa regions following the acquisition of Mercury Interactive. Since then, Mr. Binns has held a number of finance and business roles within HP Software, including Vice President of Worldwide Field Operations. Previously, Mr. Binns was Vice President of Investor Relations. Most recently, Mr. Binns was the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for HP Software responsible for driving all finance activities. Ron Coughlin; age 49; President, Personal Systems Mr. Coughlin has served as President, Personal Systems since November 2015. Mr. Coughlin joined Hewlett-Packard Company from PepsiCo in June 2007 as the senior vice president of the Imaging and Printing Group Worldwide Strategy and Marketing team. In 2010, Mr. Coughlin transitioned to lead the LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions global business unit at Hewlett-Packard Company and later ran Consumer Personal Systems at Hewlett-Packard Company. Jon Flaxman; age 58; Chief Operating Officer Mr. Flaxman has served as Chief Operating Officer since November 2015. Previously, Mr. Flaxman served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Hewlett-Packard Company's Printing 15 Table of Contents and Personal Systems Group. Prior to such role, he was Senior Vice President of Finance for Hewlett-Packard Company's Imaging and Printing Group for four years. From March 2007 to November 2008, Mr. Flaxman was Chief Administrative Officer and Executive Vice President of Hewlett-Packard Company. Mr. Flaxman joined Hewlett-Packard Company in 1981. Tracy S. Keogh; age 54; Chief Human Resources Officer Ms. Keogh has served as Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2015. Previously, Ms. Keogh served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Hewlett-Packard Company from April 2011 to November 2015. Prior to joining Hewlett-Packard Company, Ms. Keogh served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Hewitt Associates, a provider of human resources consulting services, from May 2007 until March 2011. Catherine A. Lesjak; age 56; Chief Financial Officer Ms. Lesjak has served as Chief Financial Officer since November 2015. Previously, Ms. Lesjak served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Hewlett-Packard Company from 2007 to November 2015. Prior to that, Ms. Lesjak served as Hewlett-Packard Company's interim Chief Executive Officer from August 2010 until November 2010. She also serves as a director of SunPower Corporation. Enrique Lores; age 50; President, Printing, Solutions and Services Mr. Lores has served as President, Printing, Solutions and Services since November 2015. Throughout his 26-year tenure with Hewlett-Packard Company, Mr. Lores held leadership positions across the organization, most recently leading the Separation Management Office for HP Inc. Previously, Mr. Lores was the Senior Vice President and General Manager for Business Personal Systems. Before his Business Personal Systems role, Mr. Lores was Senior Vice President of Customer Support and Services. Marie Myers; age 47; Global Controller and Head of Finance Services Ms. Myers has served as Global Controller and Head of Finance Services since November 2015. Prior to that from October 2014 to October 2015, Ms. Myers was Finance Lead for HP Inc. in the Separation, and held key leadership roles at Hewlett-Packard Company, including: Vice President for PPS HQ and Strategy Finance from May 2012 to October 2015 and Vice President of Finance for PSG Americas from March 2010 to May 2012. Kim Rivera; age 47; Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel Ms. Rivera has served as Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel since November 2015. Prior to joining us, at DaVita Health Care Partners she served as the Chief Legal Officer from July 2011 to October 2015, as Corporate Secretary from January 2010 to December 2013 and as Vice President and General Counsel from January 2010 to July 2011. From February 2006 to November 2009, she served as Vice President and Associate General Counsel at The Clorox Company. Prior to that, Ms. Rivera served as Vice President Law and Chief Litigation Counsel to Rockwell Automation as well as General Counsel for its Automation Controls and Information Group. Dion J. Weisler; age 48; President and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Weisler has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since November 2015. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President of the Printing and Personal Systems Group of Hewlett-Packard Company from June 2013 to November 2015 and as Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Printing and Personal Systems, Asia Pacific and Japan from January 2012 to June 2013. Prior to joining 16 Table of Contents Hewlett-Packard Company, he was Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Product and Mobile Internet Digital Home Groups at Lenovo Group Ltd., a technology company, from January 2008 to December 2011. Employees We had approximately 287,000 employees worldwide as of October 31, 2015. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://www.hp.com/investor/home, as soon as reasonably practicable after HP electronically files such reports with, or furnishes those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. HP's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors' committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Finance and Investment Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, Technology Committee, and Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee) and code of ethics entitled "Standards of Business Conduct" are also available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from: HP Inc. Attention: Investor Relations 1501 Page Mill Road, Palo Alto, CA 94304 http://www.hp.com/investor/informationrequest Additional Information Microsoft and Windows are U.S.-registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. Intel, Itanium , IntelAtomTM, and Intel Itanium are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries. AMD is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ARM is a registered trademark of ARM Limited. UNIX is a registered trademark of The Open Group. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks related to our business If we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. We are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. One set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the decline in the PC market, the growth of multi-architecture devices running competing operating systems and movement to continuous ink supply systems. A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. Our major competitors are expanding their product and service offerings with integrated products and solutions; our business-specific competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. For example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our distribution network or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, we are facing a series of significant macroeconomic challenges, including weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in Central and Eastern Europe and Russia, and certain countries and businesses in Asia. We may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our efforts to address these challenges and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. In addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address these challenges given our large and diverse portfolio of businesses, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and the ongoing integration of acquired businesses. If we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. We operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security. If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. We have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or 18 Table of Contents specialize in one or more of our product lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products. Companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. In addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. Financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. For example, growing demand for an increasing array of mobile computing devices has reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. In addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of our LaserJet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with our printing supplies business. If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer. Our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products, services and solutions to meet the demands of a continually changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline. To successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, and innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories. Any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents The process of developing new high-technology products, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. For example, to offset industry declines in some of our businesses, we must successfully grow in adjacencies such as copier printers, maintain our strong position in graphics and execute on our strategy to grow commercial mobility by providing specialized products and services to address the needs of our customers. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain and protect appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. Any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. Our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. After we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's lifecycle or at all. Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. If we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer. In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. In order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. However, the products and services that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third-parties. If we are unable to determine the cause or find an appropriate solution to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and profitability. In addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. Addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. If new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro, the British pound, Chinese yuan (renminbi) and the Japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in U.S. dollars. In particular, the economic uncertainties relating to European sovereign and other debt obligations and the related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. 20 Table of Contents Global economic events and uncertainty may cause currencies to fluctuate and currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. For example, in the event that one or more European countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into Europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, such as the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro or the weakness of the Japanese yen, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. From time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. The effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. We may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. In addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue, financial condition and, to a lesser extent, our cost of sales. Recent global, regional and local economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology products and services in the markets in which we compete. Recent economic weakness and uncertainty in various markets throughout the world have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. For example, we are continuing to experience macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the Europe, the Middle East and Africa region, China and certain other high-growth markets. Ongoing U.S. federal government spending limits may continue to reduce demand for our products and services from organizations that receive funding from the U.S. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the United States, which could further reduce demand for our products and services. Economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products and services, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. We also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. In addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliersand our suppliers from their suppliersdue to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. Economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. Any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. Poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. Interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on 21 Table of Contents changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. Our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. Our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. Delays or reductions in hardware and related services spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. In addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. Competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. In addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. Market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. Moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. Moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. Many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. 22 Table of Contents Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. We must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. Distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. We also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. Given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. In addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource intensive than expected. Furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. Other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, each of which is described below. Component shortages. We may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. For example, our PC business relies heavily upon OMs to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those OMs to fulfill demand for our PC products. We represent a substantial portion of the business of some of these OMs, and any changes to the nature or volume of our business transactions with a particular OM could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the OM and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that OM. If shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. Accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. Excess supply. In order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of 23 Table of Contents favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Contractual terms. As a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. If we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. In addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same OMs and suppliers that we utilize. Our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain OMs and suppliers could be limited. The practice employed by our PC business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its OMs may create large supplier receivables with the OMs that, depending on the financial condition of the OMs, may create collectability risks. In addition, certain of our OMs and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. Any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Contingent workers. We also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. We have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. Our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. Single-source suppliers. We obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. For example, we rely on Canon for laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges. We also rely on Intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our PCs and workstations, and we rely on AMD to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other products. Some of those processors are customized for our products. New products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. Replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. For some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from Intel, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. The performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. The loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. 24 Table of Contents Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in California, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations. We also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in Asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern United States to import products into the Americas region. Our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, IT system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. Our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. Our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. Alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be cancelled. Depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. For example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the U.S. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. Consumer sales are often higher in the fourth calendar quarter compared to other quarters due in part to seasonal holiday demand. European sales are often weaker during the summer months. Demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. Moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. Typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. 25 Table of Contents Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our business and financial performance. Sales outside the United States made up approximately 64% of our net revenue for fiscal 2015. In addition, a portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets. Our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and OEMs; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. The factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States. For example, we rely on manufacturers in Taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the "FCPA"). Although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. 26 Table of Contents Any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). Risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: Managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. We may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third-parties or market trends. Certain prior business combination and investment transactions entered into by Hewlett-Packard Company resulted, and in the future any such transactions by us may result, in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, asset impairment charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. Our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third-parties or their representatives. The pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. In order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. We may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. Our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. An announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. Business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents If we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. If there are future decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include goodwill impairment or intangible asset charges. As part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. In addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. After reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. Integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. Any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. In order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. Integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. The challenges involved in integration include: successfully combining product and service offerings and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus; persuading customers and distributors not to defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate IT infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; 28 Table of Contents persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-U.S. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third-parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards,