Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, they could affect the business and results of operations of HP Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries which may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, any statements regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; projections of net revenue, margins, expenses, effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, deferred taxes, share repurchases, foreign currency exchange rates or other financial items; any projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or restructuring and other charges, planned structural cost reductions and productivity initiatives; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including, but not limited to, our business model and transformation, our sustainability goals, our go-to-market strategy, the execution of restructuring plans and any resulting cost savings (including the fiscal 2023 plan), net revenue or profitability improvements or other financial impacts; any statements concerning the expected development, demand, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements concerning potential supply constraints, component shortages, manufacturing disruptions or logistics challenges; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims, disputes or other litigation matters; any statements of expectation or belief as to the timing and expected benefits of acquisitions and other business combination and investment transactions (including the acquisition of Plantronics, Inc. (Poly)); and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements can also generally be identified by words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, projects, will, would, could, can, may, and similar terms. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our business and results of operations include factors relating to: the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends, changes and events, including the Russian invasion of Ukraine, tension across the Taiwan Strait, the Israel-Hamas conflict, other hostilities in the Middle East and the regional and global ramifications of these events; volatility in global capital markets and foreign currency, increases in benchmark interest rates, the effects of inflation and instability of financial institutions; risks associated with HPs international operations; the effects of global pandemics, such as COVID-19, or other public health crises; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, clients and partners, including logistical challenges with respect to such execution and performance; changes in estimates and assumptions HP makes in connection with the preparation of its financial statements; the need to manage (and reliance on) third-party suppliers, including with respect to supply constraints and component shortages, and the need to manage HPs global, multi-tier distribution network and potential misuse of pricing programs by HPs channel partners, adapt to new or changing marketplaces and effectively deliver HPs services; HPs ability to execute on its strategic plans, including the previously announced initiatives, business model changes and transformation; execution of planned structural cost reductions and productivity initiatives; HPs ability to complete any contemplated share repurchases, other capital return programs or other strategic transactions; the competitive pressures faced by HPs businesses; successfully innovating, developing and executing HPs go-to-market strategy, including online, omnichannel and contractual sales, in an evolving distribution, reseller and customer landscape; the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet evolving customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends, including artificial intelligence; successfully competing and maintaining the value proposition of HPs products, including supplies and services; challenges to HPs ability to accurately forecast inventories, demand and pricing, which may be due to HPs multi-tiered channel, sales of HPs products to unauthorized resellers or unauthorized resale of HPs products or our uneven sales cycle; 3 integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the results of our restructuring plans (including the fiscal 2023 plan), including estimates and assumptions related to the cost (including any possible disruption of HPs business) and the anticipated benefits of our restructuring plans; the protection of HPs intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties; the hiring and retention of key employees; disruptions in operations from system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks, extreme weather conditions or other effects of climate change, and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events; the impact of changes to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including environmental regulations and tax laws; our aspirations related to environmental, social and governance matters; potential impacts, liabilities and costs from pending or potential investigations, claims and disputes; our use of artificial intelligence; the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the items discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this report and that are otherwise described or updated from time to time in HPs other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). HPs Future Ready Plan includes HP's efforts to take advantage of future growth opportunities, including but not limited to, investments to drive growth, investments in our people, improving product mix, driving structural cost savings and other productivity measures. Structural cost savings represent gross reductions in costs driven by operational efficiency, digital transformation, and portfolio optimization. These initiatives include but are not limited to workforce reductions, platform simplification, programs consolidation and productivity measures undertaken by HP, which HP expects to be sustainable in the longer-term. These structural cost savings are net of any new recurring costs resulting from these initiatives and exclude one-time investments to generate such savings. HPs expectations on the longer-term sustainability of such structural cost savings are based on its current business operations and market dynamics and could be significantly impacted by various factors, including but not limited to HPs evolving business models, future investment decisions, market environment and technology landscape. Forward-looking and other statements in this report may also address our corporate sustainability or responsibility progress, plans, and goals (including environmental matters), and the inclusion of such statements is not an indication that these contents are necessarily material to investors or required to be disclosed in HPs filings with the SEC. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. The forward-looking statements in this report are made as of the date of this filing and HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business. Business Overview We are a leading global provider of personal computing and other digital access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions and services. We sell to individual consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. HP Products and Services; Segment Information We have three reportable segments: Personal Systems, Printing and Corporate Investments. Personal Systems Personal Systems offers commercial and consumer desktops and notebooks, workstations, thin clients, commercial mobility devices, retail point-of-sale (POS) systems, displays, hybrid systems (includes video conferencing cameras and solutions, headsets, voice, and related software capabilities including all products and solutions acquired from Poly), software, support and services. We group commercial notebooks, commercial desktops, commercial services, commercial mobility devices, commercial detachables and convertibles, workstations, retail POS systems and thin clients into commercial (Commercial PS) and consumer notebooks, consumer desktops, consumer services and consumer detachables into consumer (Consumer PS) when describing performance in these markets. Both Commercial PS and Consumer PS services include support and deployment, configurations and extended warranty services and maintain multi-operating system and multi-architecture strategies using Microsoft Windows and Google Chrome operating systems, and predominantly use processors from Intel Corporation (Intel) and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD). Personal Systems groups its global business capabilities into the following business units when reporting business performance: Commercial PS consist of endpoint computing devices and hybrid systems, for use by enterprise, public sector (which includes education), and SMB customers, with a focus on robust designs, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in the customers environment. Commercial PS includes HP Dragonfly, HP ProBook and HP EliteBook lines of notebooks, convertibles, and detachables, HP Pro and HP Elite lines of business desktops and all-in-ones, retail POS systems, HP Thin Clients, HP Pro Tablet personal computers (PCs) and the HP notebook, desktop and Chromebook systems. It also includes workstations that are designed and optimized for high-performance and demanding application environments including Z desktop workstations, Z all-in-ones and Z mobile workstations. Additionally, HP offers a range of services and solutions to enterprise, public sector (which includes education), and SMB customers to help them manage the lifecycle of their PCs and mobility installed base. Consumer PS consist of devices, accessories and services which are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on gaming, learning and working remotely, consuming multi-media for entertainment, managing personal life activities, staying connected, sharing information, getting things done for work including creating content and staying informed and secure. These systems include HP Spectre, HP Envy, HP Pavilion, HP Chromebook, Omen and Victus by HP lines of notebooks and desktops, HP Envy, HP Pavilion desktops and all-in-one lines. Printing Printing provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, services and solutions. Printing is also focused on Graphics and 3D Printing and Personalization in the commercial and industrial markets. Our global business capabilities within Printing are described below: Office Printing Solutions delivers HPs office printers, supplies, services, and solutions to SMBs, public sector and large enterprises. It also includes Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) hardware and solutions. Home Printing Solutions delivers innovative printing products, supplies, services and solutions for the home, home business and micro business customers utilizing both HPs Ink and Laser technologies. Graphics Solutions delivers large-format, commercial and industrial solutions and supplies to print service providers and packaging converters through a wide portfolio of printers and presses (HP DesignJet, HP Latex, HP Indigo and HP PageWide Web Presses). 3D Printing and Personalization offers a portfolio of additive manufacturing solutions and supplies to help customers succeed in their additive and digital manufacturing journey. HP offers complete solutions in collaboration with an ecosystem of partners. Printing groups its global business capabilities into the following business units when reporting business performance: Commercial Printing consists of office printing solutions, graphics solutions and 3D printing and personalization, excluding supplies; Consumer Printing consists of home printing solutions, excluding supplies; and Supplies comprises a set of highly innovative consumable products, ranging from ink and laser cartridges to media, industrial graphics supplies and 3D printing and personalization supplies, for recurring use in consumer and commercial hardware. 5 Table of Contents Corporate Investments Corporate Investments includes certain business incubation and investment projects. Sales, Marketing and Distribution We manage our business and report our financial results based on the business segments described above. Our customers are organized by consumer and commercial groups, and purchases of HP products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by HP or indirectly through a variety of partners, utilizing their own physical or internet stores or an omnichannel combination of the two, including: retailers that sell our products to the public focusing on consumers and SMBs; resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer groups; distribution partners that supply our products and solutions to resellers and retailers in certain geographies; and system integrators and other business intermediaries that provide various levels of services, including systems integration work and as-a-service solutions, and typically partner with us on client solutions that require our products and services. The mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel sales differs by business and geographic market. We believe that customer buying patterns and different geographic market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts to the geographic market and sub-geographic specificities for each of our businesses. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our market coverage while identifying efficiencies and productivity gains in both our direct and indirect routes to market. Our businesses collaborate to accomplish strategic and process alignment where appropriate. For example, we typically assign an account manager to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise and drives both direct and indirect sales to their assigned customers. For other customers and for consumers, we typically manage both direct online sales as well as channel relationships with retailers mainly targeting consumers and SMBs and commercial resellers mainly targeting SMBs, mid-market accounts, public sector and large enterprises. See Risk Factors If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Manufacturing and Materials We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers (OMs) around the world to manufacture HP-designed products. The use of OMs is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for HP-designed products. We use multiple OMs to maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, third-party suppliers produce products that we purchase and resell under the HP brand. Additionally, we manufacture finished products from components and sub-assemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. We utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customers hardware and software customization requirements. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing shortly before the sale or distribution of products to our customers. We purchase materials, supplies and product sub-assemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing or readily available alternate sources of supply. However, we have relied on sole sources for some laser printer engines, LaserJet supplies, certain customized parts and parts for products with short life cycles (although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations, mitigating the effect of a disruption). For instance, we source the majority of our A4 and a portion of A3 portfolio laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges from Canon. Any decision by either party not to renew our agreement with Canon or to limit or reduce the scope of the agreement could adversely affect our net revenue from LaserJet products; however, we have a long-standing business relationship with Canon and anticipate renewal of this agreement. We are dependent upon Intel and AMD as suppliers of x86 processors and Microsoft and Google for various software products. We believe that disruptions with these suppliers would have industry-wide ramifications, and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See Risk FactorsWe are heavily dependent on third-party suppliers and supply chain issues have adversely affected, and could adversely affect in the future, our financial results in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on our reliance on single-source suppliers. Like other participants in the information technology (IT) industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our demand requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we may experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources. We also may acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or price increases and enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supplies. See Risk FactorsWe are heavily dependent on third-party suppliers and supply chain issues have adversely affected, and could adversely affect in the future, our financial results in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 6 Table of Contents Sustainability also plays an important role in the manufacturing and sourcing of materials and components for our products. We strive to make our products and packaging in an ethical and sustainable manner. We have committed to building an efficient, resilient and sustainable supplier network, and we collaborate with our suppliers to improve their labor practices and working conditions, and to reduce the environmental impact of their operations. These actions, together with our broader sustainability program, help us in our effort to meet customer sustainability requirements and comply with regulations, such as supplier labor practices and conflict minerals disclosures. For more information on our sustainability goals, programs, and performance, including our methodology for calculating progress towards our GHG and other sustainability goals, we refer you to our annual Sustainable Impact Report, available on our website (which is not incorporated by reference herein). International Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet both consumer and enterprise customers demand on a worldwide basis and draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce. This provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset geographic economic trends and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. We believe that our broad geographic presence gives us a solid base on which to build future growth. See "Risk FactorsDue to the international nature of our business, geopolitical or economic changes or events, uncertainty or other factors could harm our business and financial performance" and "We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact our results" in Item 1A, which are incorporated herein by reference. Research and Development Innovation across products, services, business models and processes is a key element of our culture and success. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers changing needs and desires, and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and the areas where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers experiences. Our research and development efforts are supported by various groups across our business segments. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our competitive position. For a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see Risk FactorsIf we cannot successfully execute our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Patents Our general policy has been to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At October 31, 2023, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 23,000 patents. Patents generally have a term of twenty years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is essential to HP as a whole or to any of HPs business segments. In addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property (IP) from third parties. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses, and other rights, under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. For a discussion of risks attendant to IP rights, see Risk FactorsOur financial performance may suffer if we cannot develop, obtain, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend and Risk FactorsThird-party claims of IP infringement are commonplace in our industry and may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Seasonality General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our products and services experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months and consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. Historical seasonal patterns may not continue in the future and may be impacted by supply constraints, shifts in customer behavior and the evolving impacts of macroeconomic challenges and different demand dynamics. See Risk FactorsOur uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable, in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Competition We encounter strong competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, 7 Table of Contents account relationships, customer training, service, support and solutions including subscription-based offerings and financing, security, availability of application software, and our sustainable impact. The markets for each of our key business segments are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. Most product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. We have a broad technology portfolio spanning personal computing and other digital access devices, imaging and printing-related products and services. We are the leader or among the leaders in each of our key business segments. The competitive environment in which each key segment operates is described below: Personal Systems. The markets in which Personal Systems operates are highly competitive and are characterized by price competition and introduction of new products and solutions. Our primary competitors are Lenovo Group Limited, Dell Inc., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Acer Inc., ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Apple Inc., Toshiba Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd and Logitech International S.A. In particular geographies, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or white box manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product portfolio, our innovation, and research and development capabilities including security features, our innovative design work, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and support offerings and the accessibility of our products and execution of our broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. Printing. The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive. Printings key customer segments each face competitive market pressures in pricing and the introduction of new products. Our primary competitors include Canon Inc., Lexmark International, Inc., Xerox Corporation Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, The Ricoh Company Ltd. and Brother Industries, Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer non-original supplies (including imitation, refill and remanufactured alternatives), which are often available for lower prices but which can also offer lower print quality and reliability compared to HP original inkjet and toner supplies. These and other competing products are often sold alongside our products through online or omnichannel resellers,retailers or distributors, or such resellers, retailers and distributors may highlight the availability of lower cost non-original supplies. Our competitive advantages include our comprehensive high-quality solutions for the home, office and publishing environments, our innovation, and research and development capabilities including security features, sustainability, our brand, and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. For a discussion of risks attendant to these competitive factors, see Risk FactorsWe operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance, in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Sustainability At HP, we believe how we do things is just as important as what we do. Our Sustainable Impact goals reflect our efforts to tackle key issues in Climate, Human Rights, and Digital Equity as follows: Climate Action: Taking urgent and decisive action to achieve net zero carbon emissions across our entire value chain, give back more to forests than we take, and innovate our products and services for a more circular economy. Among our goals: Achieve net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across HPs value chain (scope 1, 2 and 3) by 2040, with a 50% reduction in absolute value chain GHG emissions by 2030 compared to 2019; Reach 75% circularity for products and packaging by 2030; Continue to source only sustainable fiber for all HP-brand paper and paper-based packaging and counteract deforestation for non-HP paper used in our products and print services; Human Rights: Building a culture of equality and empowerment within HP and beyond, where diversity is sought out and celebrated, and where universal human rights are understood and respected. Among our goals: Achieve 50/50 gender equality in HP leadership by 2030; Achieve greater than 30% technical women and women in engineering roles by 2030; Meet or exceed labor market representation for racial and ethnic minorities in the U.S. by 2030; Reach one million workers through worker empowerment programs by 2030, since the beginning of 2015; Double the number of Black/African American executives by 2025, from a 2020 baseline; Digital Equity: Accelerating equitable access to education, healthcare, and economic opportunity for those who are traditionally excluded so they can participate and thrive in a digital economy. Among our goals: Accelerate digital equity for 150 million people by 2030, since the beginning of 2021; 8 Table of Contents Enable better learning outcomes for 100 million people by 2025, since the beginning of 2015; Enroll 1.5 million HP LIFE (Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs) users between 2016 and 2030; Contribute 1.5 million employee volunteering hours by 2025 (cumulative since the beginning of 2016); Contribute US$100 million in HP Foundation and employee community giving by 2025 (cumulative since the beginning of 2016); For more information on our Sustainable Impact strategy, programs, and a complete list of goals and performance, we refer you to our annual Sustainable Impact Report, available on our website (which is not incorporated by reference herein). Environment Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. Many of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. Most of our products also are subject to requirements applicable to their energy consumption. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, and their safe use. We proactively evaluate and at times replace materials in our products and supply chain, taking into account, among other things, published lists of substances of concern, new and upcoming legal requirements, customer preferences and scientific analysis that indicates a potential impact to human health or the environment. We are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as product take-back legislation). We are also subject to standards set by public and private entities related to sustainability issues such as energy consumption, carbon emissions, reusing or recycling. We intend for our products to be easily reused and recycled, and we provide many of our customers with reuse and recycling programs. In the event our products become non-compliant with these laws or standards, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions or from being procured by certain governments or private companies, and we could face other sanctions, including fines. Our operations, supply chain and our products are currently, and expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and international treaties relating to climate change, such as climate disclosure, carbon pricing or product energy efficiency requirements, requiring us to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions including fines. We strive to continually improve the energy and carbon efficiency of our operations, supply chain and product portfolio and deliver more cost-effective and lower carbon technology solutions to our customers. We believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements. We are committed to complying with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. This commitment is reflected and outlined in our sustainable impact goals, our comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services. A liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when we consider it probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. For a discussion of risks attendant to these environmental factors, see Risk FactorsOur business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations and cash flows in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, for a discussion of our environmental contingencies see Note 14, Litigation and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is also incorporated herein by reference. Human Capital HP employs about 58,000 employees in 59 countries. Together, they power HP innovation by applying their diverse skills and perspectives to create transformative solutions for our partners and customers worldwide. Our aim is to attract and retain exceptional talent by providing engaging work experiences that help our employees thrive. We promote ongoing learning and development, offer comprehensive compensation and benefits, and focus on health, safety, and well-being to set employees up to do their best work and 9 Table of Contents achieve their career aspirations. To deliver on these priorities, HP senior leaders are accountable for meeting management by objective (MBO) goals for employee engagement, diversity and inclusion, and leadership development. Employee Engagement We regularly collect feedback from employees to better understand and improve their workplace experiences and to identify ways to strengthen our culture. In fiscal year 2023, 91% of employees participated in our annual survey, and we continued to see strong overall engagement, exceeding top quartile benchmarks for most of the external comparisons we track. We saw similar strength on our internal inclusion index, and employees demonstrated their engagement by providing a high volume of written comments in this years survey. Beyond the annual survey, we regularly seek out employee feedback through a variety of pulse polls and take action to address their ideas, suggestions, and concerns. Talent and Learning We have a multi-faceted talent, learning, and skill-development strategy. First, we emphasize diversity of backgrounds, experience, and perspectives in our senior talent pipeline, and invest in targeted approaches such as leadership assessments, external education opportunities, coaching, job rotations, and immersive, experiential learning to ensure our executives are equipped to lead HP, both now and in the future. We also support emerging, technical, and underrepresented talent through an extensive portfolio of internal and external development programs designed to accelerate their career growth. Additionally, we prepare new people managers with a development experience designed, among other things, to build coaching skills and champion inclusion. We are also committed to the continuous growth of employees. We provide enterprise-wide skill development solutions and resources that focus on the critical skills all employees need to perform at their best in their jobs today and in the future. In partnership with industry thought partners and internal experts, HP offers learning opportunities in key areas such as software development, artificial intelligence, data science, product management, communications, change agility, and strategic thinking. HP prioritizes skill development experiences that accommodate employee-specific needs and demanding schedules, with an emphasis on learning that drives immediate application and measurable behavior change. In addition to skill development resources, HP also offers formal education assistance through our Degree Assistance Program which provides employees with the opportunity to participate in higher academic education. In fiscal year 2023, 99% of employees participated in learning and development sponsored by HP, completing an estimated average of 32 hours per person. The 2023 annual employee engagement survey revealed that 83% of employees felt HP actively supported their learning and development, with 82% believing that they are given a real opportunity to improve their skills at HP. Finally, HP encourages ongoing collaboration between people managers and employees to create personalized plans that accelerate skill development and prepare employees for additional opportunities. Our data show that 80% of employees have specific development actions they are working on in collaboration with their managers. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) We strive to create an inclusive, equitable workplace where everyone can bring their authentic selves to work and reach their full potential. This commitment is at the heart of our innovation model, where people with diverse perspectives, backgrounds, knowledge, and experiences collaborate to create breakthrough technologies and deliver valued solutions to our customers. Our commitment to DEI starts at the top with a highly knowledgeable, skilled, and diverse board of directors. We are also among the top technology companies for women in executive positions. Globally, women hold 32.7% of HPs full-time leadership positions. We are committed to improving representation of women at HP overall, with a focus on leadership and technical roles worldwide. We also strive to ensure equal opportunities and access for employees from underrepresented groups. For example in fiscal year 2023, 45% of our external U.S. hires were racially or ethnically diverse. We continue to work on removing barriers for underrepresented employees, providing internal programs and development opportunities as well as training for managers on inclusive leadership. Pay Equity People should be paid equitably for what they do and how they do it, regardless of their gender, race, or other protected characteristics. We benchmark and set pay ranges based on relevant market data and consider factors such as an employees role, experience, skills, and performance. We also regularly review our compensation practices, both in terms of our overall workforce and individual employees, to make sure our pay is fair and equitable. For the past seven years, we have reviewed employees compensation with the support of independent third-party experts to ensure consistent pay practices. In fiscal year 2023, we expanded our annual pay equity assessment to include 17 countries with our largest employee populations, representing approximately 85% of our global workforce. The independent analysis did not reveal any systemic issues and we addressed areas of potential concern as part of our off-cycle compensation process. Health, Safety, and Wellness The holistic wellbeing of our employees is vital to HPs success. Our environmental, health, and safety leadership team uses our global injury and illness reporting system to assess worldwide and regional trends as a part of quarterly reviews. We continue to focus on reducing and effectively managing risks at HP-owned and partner-owned manufacturing facilities, and injury rates continue to be low. 10 Table of Contents We sponsor a global wellness program designed to enhance wellbeing for all HP employees. Throughout the year, we encourage healthy behaviors across our five pillars of wellnessphysical, financial, emotional, life balance, and social/communitythrough regular communications, educational sessions, voluntary progress tracking, wellness challenges, and other incentives. In addition to our regular annual wellbeing programs, we provide specialized programs and campaigns in line with employee needs at the time. Our campaign this year, Better Me in 23, encouraged employees to prioritize themselves and their wellbeing by using mindfulness apps, targeted mental health support, individual assessments, and expanded financial wellbeing programs. Hybrid Work Strategy We continue to embrace hybrid ways of working, consistent with flexible working guidelines we adopted in July 2021. At HP, hybrid work balances workplace flexibility with time working together to collaborate and connect in person at our sites. Our goal is to provide the ability to work seamlessly across a diverse ecosystem of workplaces, enabled by enhanced tools and technology designed to optimize productivity and collaboration. We are testing different approaches to making hybrid work effective at multiple pilot sites globally, seeking feedback from HP employees on how best to support them in new ways of working. Overall, we aim to preserve the flexibility offered by hybrid work arrangements while offering our employees a healthy, supportive, and inclusive environment that supports their development, provides connection, and propels team and individual performance. Information about our Executive Officers The following are our current executive officers: Alex Cho; age 51; President, Personal Systems Mr. Cho has served as President, Personal Systems since June 2018. From 2014 to 2018, Mr. Cho served as Global Head and General Manager of Commercial Personal Systems. Prior to that role, Mr. Cho served as the Vice President and General Manager of the LaserJet Supplies team from 2010 to 2014. Jon Faust; age 46; Global Controller Mr. Faust has served as Global Controller since April 2022. Previously, Mr. Faust served as Head of Finance Transformation & Corporate Services from August 2021 to April 2022. Prior to joining HP, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Aruba, a Hewlett Packard Enterprise company, a provider of network solutions, from February 2020 to July 2021. Prior to that role, Mr. Faust spent over 19 years at Hewlett Packard Enterprise (and its and HPs predecessor company, Hewlett-Packard Company) including Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Hybrid IT (August 2018 to January 2020), Senior Vice President Worldwide Financial Planning & Analysis and Global Functions Finance (April 2015 to July 2018), and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Technology & Operations (November 2013 to March 2015). Julie Jacobs; age 57; Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel Ms. Jacobs has served as Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel since October 2022. Previously, Ms. Jacobs served as Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Yahoo, a leading internet, media, and technology company, from September 2021 to October 2022. Prior to Yahoo, Ms. Jacobs served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Verizon Media, a global media and technology company, from June 2017 to September 2021. Prior to Verizon Media, Ms. Jacobs spent over 16 years in various senior legal roles at AOL, a global internet, media and technology company, including serving as AOLs Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary from May 2010 to June 2017. Enrique Lores; age 58; President and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Lores has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since November 2019. Throughout his over 30-year tenure with the company, Mr. Lores held leadership positions across the organization, serving as President, Printing, Solutions and Services from November 2015 to November 2019, and prior to that role, leading the Separation Management Office for HP Inc. Previously, Mr. Lores was the Senior Vice President and General Manager for Business Personal Systems. Before his Business Personal Systems role, Mr. Lores was Senior Vice President of Customer Support and Services. Kristen Ludgate; age 61; Chief People Officer Ms. Ludgate has served as Chief People Officer since July 2021. Previously, Ms. Ludgate served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer at 3M, a global technology company, from June 2018 until July 2021. Ms. Ludgate held a wide range of leadership positions during her 17 years with 3M, leading global teams in human resources, legal, compliance, and communications. David McQuarrie; age 48; Chief Commercial Officer Mr. McQuarrie has served as Chief Commercial Officer since November 2022. Previously, Mr. McQuarrie served as Senior Vice President & General Manager, Personal Systems Category, from November 2021 to November 2022, Global Head of Customer Support from November 2019 to November 2021, and Global Head of Print Business Management from January 2017 to October 11 Table of Contents 2019. Prior to joining HP, Mr. McQuarrie served in various sales leadership positions at global personal computer and technology companies Lenovo (2008 to 2016) and Dell (1998 to 2007). Marie Myers; age 55; Chief Financial Officer Ms. Myers has served as Chief Financial Officer since February 2021, previously serving as acting Chief Financial Officer from October 2020 to February 2021. She served as Chief Transformation Officer from June 2020 to May 2021 and as Chief Digital Officer from March 2020 to June 2020. Prior to rejoining HP, she was the Chief Financial Officer of UiPath, a robotic process automation company, from December 2018 to December 2019. Prior to UiPath, Ms. Myers served as Global Controller from December 2015 to December 2018 and finance lead during the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company into HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company from October 2014 to August 2015, in addition to other finance-related roles at Hewlett-Packard Company. Tuan Tran; age 56; President of Imaging, Printing and Solutions Mr. Tran served as President of Imaging, Printing and Solutions since November 2019. Previously, he served as Global Head & General Manager of the Office Printing Solutions business from 2016 to November 2019, and Global Head & General Manager of the LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions business from 2014 to 2016. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website at http://investor.hp.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after HP electronically files such reports with, or furnishes those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. HPs Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Finance, Investment and Technology Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, and Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee) and code of ethics entitled Integrity at HP (none of which are incorporated by reference herein) are also available at that same location on our website. If the Board grants any waivers from Integrity at HP to any of our directors or executive officers, or if we amend Integrity at HP, we will, if required, disclose these matters via updates to our website at http://investor.hp.com on a timely basis. We encourage investors to visit our website from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted. The content of our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from: HP Inc. Attention: Investor Relations 1501 Page Mill Road, Palo Alto, CA 94304 http://investor.hp.com/resources/information-request/default.aspx Additional Information Microsoft and Windows are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries. AMD is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Google and Google Chrome are trademarks of Google LLC. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be particularly read in conjunction with Part I, Item I, Business and Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. The risks we describe in this Form 10-K or in our other SEC filings or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could, in ways we may not be able to accurately predict, recognize or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and they could cause our future results to be materially different than we presently anticipate. MACROECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND FINANCIAL RISKS Economic weakness and uncertainty is expected to continue to adversely affect demand for our products and services and our business and financial performance. Our business and financial performance depend on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for our products and services. Ongoing economic weakness, including an economic slowdown or recession, uncertainty in markets throughout the world and other adverse economic conditions, including inflation, changes in monetary policy, increased interest rates, tariffs, exchange rates and an evolving global trade environment, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, decreased demand for our products and services and challenges in managing inventory levels and accurately forecasting revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. For example, during fiscal 2023 we observed continued market uncertainty, cautious commercial spending on information technology hardware, lower discretionary consumer spending, inflationary pressures, and foreign currency fluctuations. Changes in government spending limits may continue to reduce demand for our products and services from organizations that receive government funding. Moreover, U.S. government contracts are subject to congressional funding, which may be unavailable or delayed, which could impact our business. Prolonged or more severe economic weakness and uncertainty could also cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. Financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations or those of our suppliers, vendors or customers, rapidly and without notice. Poor financial performance of asset markets and the adverse effects of fluctuating exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. Interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on interest rates, borrowing costs, exchange rates, costs of hedging and the fair value of derivative instruments. Economic downturns also may lead to future restructuring actions and associated expenses. Due to the international nature of our business, geopolitical or economic changes or events, uncertainty or other factors could harm our business and financial performance. Approximately 65% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2023 came from outside the United States. In addition, we operate in emerging markets, which can be more volatile. Our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: instability in a countrys or regions economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, changes or uncertainty in fiscal or monetary policy, actual or anticipated military or political conflicts (including the Russian invasion of Ukraine, tensions across the Taiwan Strait, the Israel-Hamas conflict and other hostilities in the Middle East), health emergencies or pandemics; the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or changes in restrictions on trade between the United States and other countries, including China and Russia; trade sanctions, embargoes, country localization requirements and other policies and regulations affecting production, shipping, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by any country that may favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors; political sentiment impacting global trade, including the willingness of non-U.S. consumers to purchase from U.S. corporations; local labor conditions and regulations, including labor issues faced by suppliers and Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs), or immigration and labor laws which may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent; changes or uncertainty in international, national or local legal environments, including tax, data handling, privacy, intellectual property, consumer protection, environmental and antitrust laws; 13 Table of Contents import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business, prevent us from shipping products, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.S. export control and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws, and adverse consequences, for any failure to comply, including compliance by recently acquired companies, which may have less robust internal compliance procedures; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points for our products and shipments. The factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States and our supply chain. For example, we rely on manufacturers in Taiwan to produce notebook computers and other suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture and have manufacturing operations in Israel which support our Industrial Graphics business. In addition, the impact of certain geopolitical conflicts, such as the Russian invasion of Ukraine or the Israel-Hamas conflict (including any escalation or expansion), and any broadening of ancillary geopolitical, economic, and other effects could also heighten the other risks identified in this report. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact our results. Currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro, the British pound, Chinese yuan (renminbi) and the Japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in U.S. dollars. Global events, trade disputes, economic sanctions, inflation, increasing interest rates and emerging market volatility, and the resulting uncertainty, may cause currencies to fluctuate, which may contribute to variations in our sales in impacted jurisdictions. Because most of our revenues are generated outside the United States, fluctuations in currency exchange rates have adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, our net revenue growth. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States, as well as our ability to increase prices. From time to time, we may use derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. However, our hedging strategies may be ineffective, may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations, or may result in losses. Business disruption events, including global pandemics or other public health crises, could seriously harm our future revenue, cash flows and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by natural disasters, telecommunications failures, manufacturing equipment failures, power or water shortages, fires, extreme weather conditions , and other disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. Terrorist acts or armed conflicts, for which we are predominantly uninsured, may also disrupt our operations. Global pandemics, such as COVID-19, or other public health crises may adversely affect, among other things, our supply chain and associated costs; demand for our products and services; our operations and sales, marketing and distribution efforts; our research and development capabilities; our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes; and other important business activities. These events could result in significant losses, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs, require substantial expenditures and recovery time, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. Our operations and those of our suppliers and distributors could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics, or other operations in key locations, are disrupted for any reason, such as those described above or other economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political reasons. In addition, even if our operations are unaffected or recover quickly, if our customers cannot timely resume their own operations, they may reduce or cancel their orders, or these events could otherwise result in a decrease in demand for our products. Climate change and associated regulatory and market impacts may have an adverse effect on our business. There are climate-related risks wherever our business is conducted. Global climate change is resulting, and is projected to continue to result, in natural disasters and adverse weather, such as drought, wildfires, storms, sea-level rise, flooding, heat waves, and cold waves, occurring more frequently or with greater intensity. Such extreme climate related events are driving changes in market dynamics, stakeholder expectations, local, national and international climate change policies and regulations could result in disruptions to us, our suppliers, vendors, customers and logistics hubs and impact employees abilities to commute or to work from home effectively. These disruptions could make it more difficult and costly for us to deliver our products and services, obtain components or other supplies through our supply chain, maintain or resume operations or perform other critical corporate functions, and could reduce customer demand for our products and services. Furthermore, climate change may reduce the availability or increase the cost of insurance for these negative impacts of natural disasters and adverse weather conditions by contributing to an increase in the incidence and severity of such natural disasters. 14 Table of Contents The increasing concern over climate change has resulted, and we expect will continue to result, in transition risks such as shifting customer preferences and regulations, including with regard to our products and their environmental impact. These demands have, and we expect will continue to, cause us to incur additional costs and make other changes to our operations. If we fail to manage transition risks effectively, customer demand for our products and services could diminish, and our profitability and cash flow could suffer. Additionally, concerns over climate change have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, the adoption of regulatory requirements designed to address climate change, such as imposing a price on carbon emissions, requirements of increased circularity in products, product efficiency and environmental certification requirements and climate-related disclosures. As a result, we may experience market access issues, restrictions on our ability to sell products to certain customers, increased compliance burdens and costs, increased indirect costs resulting from our suppliers passing on compliance costs to us, and certain of our products may be rendered obsolete or financially unviable. Further, there are an increasing number of anti-ESG government initiatives that may conflict with other regulatory requirements or our stakeholders expectations. The impacts of climate change, whether involving physical risks or transition risks, are expected to be widespread and may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets, as well as our subscription based offerings. Our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies. A downgrade of our current credit rating could increase the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, reduce access to capital markets and/or market capacity for our commercial paper or require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. In addition, a downgrade of our credit rating could have an adverse impact on our contractual business and our strategy to increase our contractual business due to higher borrowing costs and customer preferences when deciding to purchase our subscription based offerings. We cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may impact us in a similar manner and have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, access to capital markets and our subscription based offerings. Our debt obligations could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition to our current debt, we may also incur additional indebtedness. Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, and reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. We may also be required to raise additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service obligations, debt refinancing, future acquisitions or for other general corporate purposes, which will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain additional financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could adversely impact our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness or to repay our outstanding indebtedness as it becomes due and could adversely impact our business and financial condition. Additionally, further indebtedness may increase the risk of a future downgrade in our credit ratings, which could increase future debt costs, limit the future availability of debt financing and adversely affect our subscription based business. The amount and frequency of our share repurchases and dividends are affected by a number of factors and may fluctuate. Although historically we have announced regular cash dividend payments and we have adopted a share repurchase program, we are not obligated to pay cash dividends or to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares under our share repurchase program or at all. The declaration and payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors. The level of dividends and amount, timing, and purchases under our share repurchase program, if any, are influenced by many factors and may fluctuate based on our operating results, cash flows, and priorities for the use of cash, the market price of our common stock, and, with respect to share repurchases, our possession of potentially material nonpublic information. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term shareholder value. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this report. For example, we make significant estimates and assumptions when accounting for revenue recognition and taxes on earnings, and when including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. We also estimate sales and marketing program incentives based on a number of factors including historical experience, expected customer behavior and market conditions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting and financial obligations. 15 Table of Contents As more fully disclosed in Item 9A,