Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of Hewlett-Packard Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ("HP") may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, share repurchases, currency exchange rates or other financial items; any projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or restructuring charges; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including the previously announced separation transaction and the future performances of the post-separation companies if the separation is completed, as well as the execution of restructuring plans and any resulting cost savings or revenue or profitability improvements; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing HP's businesses; the competitive pressures faced by HP's businesses; risks associated with executing HP's strategy, including the planned separation transaction; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the need to manage third-party suppliers and the distribution of HP's products and the delivery of HP's services effectively; the protection of HP's intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties; risks associated with HP's international operations; the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, clients and partners; the hiring and retention of key employees; integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the execution, timing and results of the separation transaction or restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions related to the cost (including any possible disruption of HP's business) and the anticipated benefits of implementing the separation transaction and restructuring plans; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the items discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part I of this report and that are otherwise described or updated from time to time in HP's Securities and Exchange Commission reports. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. Business. We are a leading global provider of products, technologies, software, solutions and services to individual consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. Our offerings span the following: personal computing and other access devices; imaging- and printing-related products and services; enterprise information technology ("IT") infrastructure, including enterprise server and storage technology, networking products and solutions, technology support and maintenance; multi-vendor customer services, including technology consulting, outsourcing and support services across infrastructure, applications and business process domains; and 3 Table of Contents IT management software, application testing and delivery software, information management solutions, big data analytics, security intelligence and risk management solutions. HP was incorporated in 1947 under the laws of the state of California as the successor to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard. Effective in May 1998, we changed our state of incorporation from California to Delaware. October 2014 Announcement of HP Separation Transaction On October 6, 2014, we announced plans to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies: one comprising our enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses, which will conduct business as Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and one that will comprise our printing and personal systems businesses, which will conduct business as HP Inc. The separation is subject to certain conditions, including, among others, obtaining final approval from HP's Board of Directors, receipt of a favorable opinion and/or rulings with respect to the tax-free nature of the transaction for federal income tax purposes and the effectiveness of a Form 10 filing with the SEC. The separation is expected to be completed by the end of fiscal 2015. Under the separation plan, HP shareholders will own shares of both Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. The following chart provides an overview of the planned separation and segment revenues of the respective businesses based on HP's fiscal 2014 results, excluding Corporate Investments and intercompany eliminations. HP Products and Services; Segment Information We offer one of the IT industry's broadest portfolios of products and services that bring together infrastructure, software, and services through innovation to enable our customers to create value and solve business problems. As consumers and enterprises shift the way technology is created, delivered, consumed and paid for, they are demanding a foundation that will support much greater agility, lower cost, facilitate quicker time-to-market, and provide a higher degree of accessibility by end-users to that technology. We design our solutions to provide that foundation, particularly in the areas of security, cloud, mobility and big data, by leveraging the breadth of our offerings and the strengths and capabilities of our individual business units. Our operations are organized into seven business segments: Personal Systems; Printing; the Enterprise Group ("EG"); Enterprise Services ("ES"); Software; HP Financial Services ("HPFS"); and Corporate Investments. In each of the past three fiscal years, notebook personal computers ("PCs"), printing supplies, infrastructure technology outsourcing services, desktop PCs and industry standard servers each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. The Personal Systems segment and the Printing segment are structured beneath a broader Printing and Personal Systems Group ("PPS"). While PPS is not a reportable segment, we may provide financial 4 Table of Contents data aggregating the Personal Systems and Printing segments to provide a supplementary view of its business. A summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments along with a description of our fiscal 2014 organizational realignments can be found in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. A discussion of factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Printing and Personal Systems Group The mission of PPS is to leverage the respective strengths of the Personal Systems segment and the Printing segment by creating a unified business that is customer-focused and poised to capitalize on rapidly shifting industry trends. Each of the business segments within PPS is described in detail below. Personal Systems Personal Systems provides commercial PCs, consumer PCs, workstations, thin client PCs, tablets, retail point-of-sale ("POS") systems, calculators and other related accessories, software, support and services for the commercial and consumer markets. We group commercial notebooks, commercial desktops, commercial tablets, workstations and thin clients into commercial clients and consumer notebooks, consumer desktops and consumer tablets into consumer clients when describing performance in these markets. Both commercial and consumer PCs and tablets are based predominately on the Microsoft Windows operating system and use processors from Intel Corporation ("Intel") and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD"). Personal Systems also maintains a multi-operating system, multi-architecture strategy using the Google Chrome and Android operating systems for notebooks and tablets, respectively. Commercial PCs. Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers including enterprise and SMB customers, and for connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked environments. Commercial PCs include the HP ProBook and HP EliteBook lines of notebooks and hybrids (detachable tablets), the HP Pro and HP Elite lines of business desktops and all-in-ones, retail POS systems, HP Thin Clients, HP ElitePad and HP Pro Tablet PCs. Commercial PCs also include workstations that are designed and optimized for high-performance and demanding application environments including Z desktop workstations, Z all-in-ones and Z mobile workstations. Consumer PCs. Consumer PCs include the HP Spectre, HP ENVY, HP Pavilion, HP Chromebook, HP Split and HP Slate series of multi-media consumer notebooks, consumer tablets, hybrids and desktops, including the TouchSmart line of touch-enabled notebooks and all-in-one desktops. Printing Printing provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, media, software and services, as well as scanning devices. Printing is also focused on imaging solutions in the commercial markets. These solutions range from managed print services to areas such as industrial applications, outdoor signage and the graphic arts business. HP groups LaserJet, large format printers and commercial inkjet printers into Commercial Hardware and consumer and SMB inkjet printers into Consumer Hardware when describing performance in these markets. LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions. LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions delivers LaserJet and enterprise products, services and solutions to the SMB and enterprise segments including LaserJet printers and supplies (toner), Officejet Pro X inkjet enterprise products and supplies, multi-function devices, scanners, web-connected hardware, managed services, and enterprise software solutions such as 5 Table of Contents Web Jetadmin. Managed Print Services provides printing equipment, supplies, support, workflow optimization and security features for SMB and enterprise customers around the world, utilizing proprietary HP tools and fleet management solutions, as well as third-party software. Inkjet and Printing Solutions. Inkjet and Printing Solutions deliver consumer and SMB inkjet solutions (hardware, supplies, media, and web-connected hardware and services) and include single-function and all-in-one inkjet printers. Ongoing initiatives and programs, such as Ink in the Office and Ink Advantage, and newer initiatives, such as Instant Ink, are intended to provide innovative printing solutions to consumers and SMBs. Our Ink in the Office initiative is focused on providing high value inkjet printing solutions to SMBs through our Officejet Premium and Officejet Pro inkjet portfolios. Our Ink Advantage program aims to provide savings on the overall cost of printing in emerging markets. Instant Ink is an ink replacement service that allows customers to pay a monthly fee to print a specified number of pages per month. Graphics Solutions. Graphics Solutions deliver large format printers (Designjet, Large Format Production and Scitex Industrial), specialty printing, digital press solutions (Indigo and Inkjet Webpress), supplies and services to print service providers and design and rendering customers. The solutions cover a wide range of printing applications such as technical design, photos, sign and display, direct mail, marketing collateral, labels and packaging, and publishing. Software and Web Services. Software and Web Services delivers a suite of offerings, including photo-storage and printing offerings (such as Snapfish), document storage, entertainment services, web-connected printing, and PC back-up and related services. Enterprise Group EG provides a broad portfolio of enterprise technology infrastructure solutions for a variety of operating environments that address a wide range of customer challenges, including the need to increase agility and accelerate innovation in order to drive revenue, manage risk and lower costs. HP Helion, our enterprise technology infrastructure portfolio of servers, storage, networking and technology services combined with HP's cloud services and software, allows customers to adopt a holistic approach to building a technology infrastructure that supports their current business and consumer demands and next generation applications and web services. HP's Converged Systems portfolio (servers, storage and networking) simplifies IT through quick deployment, intuitive management and system-level support. Optimized for key workloads such as virtualization, cloud and big data, these complete, integrated solutions enable organizations of all sizes to efficiently utilize IT staffing resources and deploy applications faster. Industry Standard Servers. Industry Standard Servers offers a range of products from entry-level servers through premium ProLiant servers, which run primarily Windows, Linux and virtualization platforms from software providers such as Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") and VMware, Inc. ("VMware"), and open source software from other major vendors while leveraging x86 processors from Intel and AMD. The business spans a range of server product lines, including microservers, towers, traditional rack, density-optimized rack and blades, solutions for large, distributed computing companies who buy and deploy nodes at a massive scale. Industry Standard Servers also offers HP Moonshot servers operating on ARM, AMD and Intel Atom-based processors which offer reduced cost, space, energy and complexity compared to traditional servers. Business Critical Systems. Business Critical Systems delivers our mission-critical systems through a portfolio of HP Integrity servers based on the Intel Itanium processor that run the HP-UX and OpenVMS operating systems, as well as HP Integrity NonStop solutions and mission-critical x86 ProLiant servers. 6 Table of Contents Storage. Our storage offerings include platforms for enterprise and SMB environments. Our flagship product is the 3PAR StoreServ Storage Platform, which is designed for virtualization, cloud and IT-as-a-service. Traditional Storage solutions include tape, storage networking and legacy external disk products such as EVA and XP. Converged Storage solutions include 3PAR StoreServ, StoreOnce and StoreVirtual products. These offerings enable customers to optimize their existing storage systems, build new virtualization solutions and facilitate their transition to cloud computing. Networking. Our networking offerings include switches, routers, wireless local area network ("WLAN") and network management products that deliver open, scalable, secure, agile and consistent solutions that span the data center, campus and branch environments and deliver software-defined networking and unified communications capabilities. Our unified wired and wireless networking offerings include both WLAN access points, controllers and switches. Our networking solutions are based on our FlexNetwork architecture, which is designed to enable simplified server virtualization, unified communications and multi-media application delivery for the enterprise. Software-defined networking provides an end-to-end solution to automate the network from data center to campus and branch. Technology Services. Technology Services provides support services and technology consulting, focused on cloud, mobility and big data and provides IT organizations with advice, design, implementation, migration and optimization of EG's platforms: servers, storage, networking and converged infrastructure. Support services offerings span various levels of customer support needs and include: HP Foundation Care, our portfolio of reactive hardware and software support services; HP Proactive Care, which combines remote support technology for real-time monitoring with rapid access to our technical experts; HP Datacenter Care, a comprehensive and flexible capacity end-to-end support for HP and multi-vendor systems that enables customers to build, operate or consume IT in traditional, cloud or hybrid cloud environments; and Lifecycle Event services, which are event-based services offering our technology expertise and consulting for each phase of the technology life cycle. These services are available in the form of service contracts, pre-packaged offerings (HP Care Pack services) or on a customized basis. Enterprise Services ES provides technology consulting, outsourcing and support services across infrastructure, applications and business process domains. ES delivers to our clients by leveraging investments in consulting and support professionals, infrastructure technology, applications, standardized methodologies and global supply and delivery. ES also creates opportunities to sell additional hardware and software by offering solutions that encompass both products and services. Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing. Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing delivers comprehensive services that streamline and optimize our clients' technology infrastructure to efficiently enhance performance, reduce costs, mitigate risk and enable business change. These services encompass the management of data centers, IT security, cloud computing, workplace technology, networks, unified communications and enterprise service management. We also offer a set of managed services that provide a cross-section of our broader infrastructure services for smaller, discrete engagements. Application and Business Services. Application and Business Services helps our clients develop, revitalize and manage their applications and information assets. This full application life cycle approach encompasses application development, testing, modernization, system integration, maintenance and management for both packaged and custom-built applications and cloud offerings. The Application and Business Services portfolio also includes intellectual property-based industry solutions, along with technologies and related services all of which help clients better manage their critical industry processes for customer relationship management, finance and administration, human resources, payroll and document processing. 7 Table of Contents Software Software provides IT management, application testing and delivery, information management, big data analytics, security intelligence and risk management solutions for businesses and enterprises of all sizes. Our software offerings include licenses, support, professional services and software-as-a-service ("SaaS"). Described below are our global business capabilities within Software. Application Delivery Management which is part of HP's IT management offerings, provides software that enables organizations to deliver high performance applications by automating and testing the processes required to ensure the quality and scalability of desktop, web, mobile and cloud-based applications. Big Data provides a full suite of software designed to help organizations store, explore, govern, protect and serve information and insights that fundamentally improve the outcomes of businesses and the environment, while managing risk and meeting legal obligations. The group's suite includes HP Vertica, the leading analytics platform for machine, structured and semi-structured data, HP IDOL, a unique analytics platform for human information from Autonomy, as well as market leading solutions for archiving, data protection, eDiscovery, information governance and Enterprise Content Management. Enterprise Security software is designed to disrupt fraud, hackers and cyber criminals by scanning software and websites for security vulnerabilities, improving network defenses and providing real-time warning of threats as they emerge. IT Operations Management which is part of HP's IT management offerings, provides software required to automate routine IT tasks and to pinpoint IT problems when they occur, helping enterprises to reduce operational costs and improve the reliability of applications running in a traditional, cloud or hybrid environment. Marketing Optimization focuses on delivering solutions that help businesses engage audiences, reach new customer segments and markets and deliver compelling content across channels. The group provides solutions for augmented reality, contact center analytics, customer communications management and digital experience management. Software's big data platform, HAVEn, provides unique assets for processing and understanding machine and sensor data, business data and unstructured human information. A growing ecosystem of customers, partners and developers use this platform to build big data driven analytic applications. Software also leverages HAVEn's unique analytic assets to deliver market-leading, purpose-built solutions for a variety of markets, including application testing and delivery, big data analytics and applications, IT operations management, marketing optimization and enterprise security. These solutions are designed for businesses and enterprises of all sizes, and are available via on-premises, SaaS and hybrid delivery models. Software's HAVEn big data platform and purpose-built applications are augmented by support and professional services in order to provide an end-to-end solution to customers. HP Financial Services HPFS provides flexible investment solutions, such as leasing, financing, utility programs and asset management services, for customers to enable the creation of unique technology deployment models and acquisition of complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services from HP and others. Providing flexible services and capabilities that support the entire IT lifecycle, HPFS partners with customers globally to help build investment strategies that enhance their business agility and support their business transformation. HPFS offers a wide selection of investment solution capabilities for large enterprise customers and channel partners, along with an array of financial options to SMBs, educational and governmental entities. 8 Table of Contents Corporate Investments Corporate Investments includes HP Labs and certain cloud-related business incubation projects among others. Sales, Marketing and Distribution We manage our business and report our financial results based on the business segments described above. Our customers are organized by consumer and commercial groups, and purchases of HP products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by HP or indirectly through a variety of partners, including: retailers that sell our products to the public through their own physical or Internet stores; resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer groups; distribution partners that supply our solutions to resellers; original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products and services with their own products and services, and sell the integrated solution; independent software vendors that provide their clients with specialized software products and often assist us in selling our products and services to clients purchasing their products; systems integrators that provide expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions and often partner with us to extend their expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and typically partner with us on client solutions that require our unique products and services. The mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts accordingly. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our coverage, in addition to identifying efficiencies and productivity gains, in both our direct and indirect businesses. While each of our business segments manages the execution of its own go-to-market and distribution strategy, our business segments also collaborate to ensure strategic and process alignment where appropriate. For example, we typically assign an account manager, generally from EG or ES, to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise. For other customers and for consumers, PPS typically manages direct online sales as well as channel relationships with retailers, while our business segments collaborate to manage relationships with commercial resellers targeting SMBs where appropriate. Manufacturing and Materials We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers ("OMs") around the world to manufacture HP-designed products. The use of OMs is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for HP-designed products. We use multiple OMs to maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, third-party OEMs produce products that we purchase and resell under the HP brand. In addition to our use of OMs, we currently manufacture a limited number of finished products from components and subassemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. 9 Table of Contents We utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customer's particular hardware and software customization requirements. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing shortly before the sale or distribution of products to our customers. We purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such alternate sources of supply are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for laser printer engines, LaserJet supplies, certain customized parts and parts for products with short life cycles (although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations in the event of a disruption). We are dependent upon Intel and AMD as suppliers of x86 processors and Microsoft for various software products; however, we believe that disruptions with these suppliers would result in industry-wide dislocations and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See "Risk FactorsWe depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Like other participants in the IT industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our demand requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we may experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources. Frequently, we are able to obtain scarce components for somewhat higher prices on the open market, which may have an impact on our gross margin but does not generally disrupt production. We also may acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. See "Risk FactorsWe depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. International Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis for both consumer and enterprise customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset geographic economic trends and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. In addition, we believe that future growth is dependent in part on our ability to develop products and sales models that target developing countries. In this regard, we believe that our broad geographic presence gives us a solid base on which to build such future growth. A summary of our domestic and international net revenue and net property, plant and equipment is set forth in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 65% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2014 came from outside the United States ("U.S."). For a discussion of risks attendant to HP's international operations, see "Risk FactorsDue to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition," in Item 1A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk," in Item 7A and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. 10 Table of Contents Research and Development Innovation is a key element of our culture. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires, and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and the areas where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers' experiences. HP Labs, together with the various research and development groups within our business segments, are responsible for our research and development efforts. HP Labs is part of our Corporate Investments segment. Expenditures for research and development were $3.4 billion in fiscal 2014, $3.1 billion in fiscal 2013 and $3.4 billion in fiscal 2012. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our competitive position. For a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see "Risk FactorsIf we cannot successfully execute on our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market products, services and solutions that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Patents Our general policy has been to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At October 31, 2014, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 34,000 patents, which represents a decrease over the number of patents in our portfolio at the end of fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. This decrease is attributable, in part, to the sale of a portfolio of mobile computing intellectual property ("IP") in January 2014. Patents generally have a term of twenty years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to HP as a whole or to any of HP's business segments. In addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license IP from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses, and other rights, under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. For a discussion of risks attendant to IP rights, see "Risk FactorsOur revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the IP rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their IP rights," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Backlog We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects due to our diverse products and services portfolio, including the large volume of products delivered from finished goods or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our overall business. 11 Table of Contents Seasonality General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our products and services experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months and consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. See "Risk FactorsOur sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Competition We encounter strong competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software and internet infrastructure offerings. The markets for each of our business segments are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. Most product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. We have a broad technology portfolio spanning personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing-related products and services, enterprise IT infrastructure products and solutions, multi-vendor customer services and IT management software and solutions. We are the leader or among the leaders in each of our business segments. The competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below: Personal Systems. The markets in which Personal Systems operates are highly competitive and are characterized by price competition and inventory obsolescence. The decline in the PC market and the ongoing shift among customers to mobility products has further intensified competition in the PC market. Our primary competitors are Lenovo Group Limited ("Lenovo"), Dell Inc. ("Dell"), Acer Inc., ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Apple Inc., Toshiba Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. ("Samsung"). In particular regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white box" manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product portfolio, our innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and support offerings and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. Printing. The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive. Printing's key customer segments each face competitive market pressures in pricing and the introduction of new products. Our primary competitors include Canon U.S.A., Inc., Lexmark International, Inc., Xerox Corporation Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, The Ricoh Company Ltd., Samsung and Brother Industries, Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer refill and remanufactured alternatives for HP original inkjet and toner supplies, which are often available for lower prices but generally offer lower print quality and reliability. Other competitors also have 12 Table of Contents developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for HP's laser and inkjet products, particularly outside of the U.S. where IP protection is inadequate or ineffective. Our competitive advantages include our comprehensive solutions for the home, office and publishing environments, our innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand, and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. Enterprise Group. EG operates in the highly competitive enterprise technology infrastructure market that is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. Our primary competitors include technology vendors such as International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), Dell, EMC Corporation ("EMC"), Cisco Systems, Inc. ("Cisco"), Lenovo, Oracle Corporation ("Oracle"), Fujitsu Limited ("Fujitsu"), Inspur, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., NetApp, Inc., Hitachi Ltd., Juniper Networks, Inc., Arista Networks, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., Brocade Communications Systems, Inc., VMware, Microsoft, Google Inc., Rackspace Inc., and Amazon.com, Inc. ("Amazon"). In certain regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or "white-box" manufacturers. Our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong IP portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. Enterprise Services. ES competes in the IT services, consulting and integration, infrastructure technology outsourcing, business process outsourcing and application service markets. Our primary competitors include IBM Global Services, Computer Sciences Corporation, systems integration firms such as Accenture plc. and offshore companies such as Fujitsu and India-based competitors Wipro Limited, Infosys Limited and Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. We also compete with other traditional hardware providers, such as Dell, which are increasingly offering services to support their products, new players in emerging areas like cloud such as Amazon, and smaller local players. Many of our competitors offer a wide range of global services, and some of our competitors enjoy significant brand recognition. ES teams with many companies to offer services, and those arrangements allow us to extend our reach and augment our capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our deep technology expertise, especially in complex multi-country, multi-vendor and/or multi-language environments, differentiated IP, our strong track record of collaboration with clients and partners, and the combination of our expertise in infrastructure management with skilled global resources on platforms from SAP AG ("SAP"), Oracle and Microsoft, among others. Software. The markets in which Software operates are fueled by rapidly changing customer requirements and technologies. We design and develop enterprise IT management software in competition with IBM, CA Technologies, Inc., VMware, BMC Software, Inc. and others. Our big data solutions, which include data analytics, information governance and digital marketing offerings incorporating both structured and unstructured data, compete with products from companies like Adobe Systems Inc., IBM, EMC, Open Text Corporation, Oracle and Symantec Corporation. We also deliver enterprise security/risk intelligence solutions that compete with products from EMC, IBM, Cisco and Intel. As customers are becoming increasingly comfortable with newer delivery mechanisms such as SaaS, we are facing competition from smaller, less traditional competitors, particularly for customers with smaller IT organizations. Our differentiation lies in the breadth and depth of our software and services portfolio and the scope of our market coverage. HP Financial Services. In our financing solution business, our competitors are captive financing companies, mainly IBM Global Financing, as well as banks and other financial institutions. We believe our competitive advantage in this business over banks and other financial institutions is our ability to deliver flexible investment solutions and expertise that help customers and partners create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs. 13 Table of Contents For a discussion of risks attendant to these competitive factors, see "Risk FactorsCompetitive pressures could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Environment Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. Many of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. Some of our products also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements applicable to their energy consumption. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating to climate change. We are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). In the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions and we could face other sanctions, including fines. Our operations and ultimately our products are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and international treaties relating to climate change. As these laws, regulations, treaties and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that HP technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with related laws, regulations and treaties. We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. We meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services. A liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when we consider it probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. For a discussion of risks attendant to these environmental factors, see "Risk FactorsUnforeseen environmental costs could adversely affect our business and results of operations," in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, for a discussion of our environmental contingencies see 14 Table of Contents Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is also incorporated herein by reference. Executive Officers The following are our current executive officers: Martin Fink; age 50; Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer Mr. Fink has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and Director of HP Labs since November 2012. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Business Critical Systems and Converged Application Systems from April 2005 to October 2012. During his almost 30 year career at HP, Mr. Fink has worked in a wide range of roles across HP. He also serves as a director of Hortonworks, Inc. Henry Gomez; age 51; Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing and Communications Officer Mr. Gomez has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing and Communications Officer since August 2013. Previously, he served as Chief Communications Officer and Executive Vice President from January 2012 to July 2013. Prior to that, he ran HSG Communications, a consulting business that he founded in September 2008. He also served on the leadership team of Ms. Whitman's gubernatorial campaign from February 2009 to November 2010. For most of the previous decade, he worked at eBay Inc. in a variety of roles including Senior Vice President for Corporate Communications and President of Skype. From September 2011 to September 2013 he served as a director of BJ's Restaurants, Inc. John M. Hinshaw; age 44; Executive Vice President, Technology and Operations Mr. Hinshaw has served as Executive Vice President, Technology and Operations since November 2011. Previously, Mr. Hinshaw served as Vice President and General Manager of Information Solutions at The Boeing Company, an aerospace company, from January 2011 to October 2011 and as Global Chief Information Officer for Boeing from June 2007 to December 2010. He also serves as a director of Bank of New York Mellon. Abdo George Kadifa; age 55; Executive Vice President, Strategic Relationships Mr. Kadifa has served as Executive Vice President, Strategic Relationships since May 2014. Previously, Mr. Kadifa served as Executive Vice President, Software from May 2012 to May 2014. Prior to that, he served as a director of Silver Lake, a private equity firm, from June 2007 to May 2012. Tracy S. Keogh; age 53; Executive Vice President, Human Resources Ms. Keogh has served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources since April 2011. Previously, Ms. Keogh served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Hewitt Associates, a provider of human resources consulting services, from May 2007 until March 2011. Catherine A. Lesjak; age 55; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Ms. Lesjak has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2007. Ms. Lesjak served as interim Chief Executive Officer from August 2010 until November 2010. She also serves as a director of SunPower Corporation. 15 Table of Contents Todd R. Morgenfeld; age 42; Treasurer and Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Corporate Analytics Mr. Morgenfeld has served as Treasurer and Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Corporate Analytics since November 2013. Previously, Mr. Morgenfeld served as Senior Vice President, HP Mobility, supporting our strategy of providing integrated solutions for the rapidly changing information technology landscape, from June 2013 to October 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Morgenfeld served in several roles at Silver Lake, a private equity firm, from 2004 until May 2013, most recently serving as a director. Michael G. Nefkens; age 45; Executive Vice President, Enterprise Services Mr. Nefkens has served as Executive Vice President, Enterprise Services since December 2012. Previously, he served in that role in an acting capacity since August 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Nefkens served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Enterprise Services in the EMEA region from November 2009 to August 2012, after having served in client-facing roles for some of Enterprise Services' largest clients since joining the business in 2001. He also serves as a director of Riverbed Technology, Inc. Jeff T. Ricci; age 53; Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer Mr. Ricci has served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer since April 2014. Previously, Mr. Ricci served as Controller and Principal Accounting Officer on an interim basis from November 2013 to April 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Ricci served as Vice President of Finance for our Technology and Operations organization from May 2012 to November 2013. Mr. Ricci served as Vice President of Finance for Global Accounts and HP Financial Services from March 2011 to May 2012 and Vice President of Finance for HP Software from March 2009 to March 2011. Prior to joining HP, Mr. Ricci served as Senior Vice President of Finance for BEA Systems, Inc., an enterprise software company, from 2000 until June 2008. John F. Schultz; age 50; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Mr. Schultz has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since April 2012. Previously, he served as Deputy General Counsel for Litigation, Investigations and Global Functions from September 2008 to April 2012. From March 2005 to September 2008, Mr. Schultz was a partner in the litigation practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, where, among other clients, he supported HP as external counsel on a variety of litigation and regulatory matters. William L. Veghte; age 47; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Group Mr. Veghte has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Enterprise Group since August 2013. Previously, he served as Chief Operating Officer from May 2012 to August 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Veghte served as Executive Vice President of HP Software from May 2010 to May 2012. Prior to joining HP, Mr. Veghte served as Senior Vice President of the Windows business group at Microsoft Corporation, a software company, from February 2008 until January 2010. Dion J. Weisler; age 47; Executive Vice President, Printing and Personal Systems Group Mr. Weisler has served as Executive Vice President of the Printing and Personal Systems Group since June 2013. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Printing and Personal Systems, Asia Pacific and Japan from January 2012 to June 2013. Prior to joining HP, he was Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Product and Mobile Internet Digital Home Groups at Lenovo Group Ltd., a technology company, from January 2008 to December 2011. 16 Table of Contents Margaret C. Whitman; age 58; Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Ms. Whitman has served as Chairman since July 2014, President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2011 and as a member of our Board of Directors since January 2011. From March 2011 to September 2011, Ms. Whitman served as a part-time strategic advisor to Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a private equity firm. Previously, Ms. Whitman served as President and Chief Executive Officer of eBay Inc., from 1998 to March 2008. Prior to joining eBay, Ms. Whitman held executive-level positions at Hasbro Inc., FTD, Inc., The Stride Rite Corporation, The Walt Disney Company, and Bain & Company. Ms. Whitman also serves as a director of The Procter & Gamble Company and is a former director of Zipcar, Inc. Robert Youngjohns; age 63; Executive Vice President and General Manager, HP Software Mr. Youngjohns has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of HP Software since May 2014. Previously, Mr. Youngjohns served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Autonomy /Information Management business unit, within HP Software from September 2012 to May 2014. Prior to joining HP, he was President of Microsoft North America from September 2007 to September 2012 and was President and Chief Executive Officer of Callidus Software from August 2005 to September 2007. Prior to that, he spent 10 years at Sun Microsystems, where he had a variety of leadership positions in sales and general management both regionally and globally. Employees We had approximately 302,000 employees worldwide as of October 31, 2014. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://www.hp.com/investor/home, as soon as reasonably practicable after HP electronically files such reports with, or furnishes those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. HP's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors' committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Finance and Investment Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, Technology Committee, and Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee) and code of ethics entitled "Standards of Business Conduct" are also available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from: Hewlett-Packard Company Attention: Investor Relations 3000 Hanover Street Palo Alto, CA 94304 http://www.hp.com/investor/informationrequest Additional Information Microsoft and Windows are U.S.-registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. Intel, Itanium , IntelAtomTM, and Intel Itanium are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries. AMD is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ARM is a registered trademark of ARM Limited. UNIX is a registered trademark of The Open Group. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplemental Data" of this Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. We are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. One set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the decline in the PC market, the growth of multi-architecture devices running competing operating systems, the market shift towards tablets within mobility, the market shift to cloud-related infrastructure, software, and services, and the growth in software-as-a-service business models. Another set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. Our major competitors are expanding their product and service offerings with integrated products and solutions; our business-specific competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are going after new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. A third set of challenges relates to business model and go-to-market execution. In addition, we are facing a series of significant macroeconomic challenges, including weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the United States, Central Eastern Europe and Russia, and certain countries and businesses in Asia. We may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to these efforts and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. In addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with these efforts given our large portfolio of businesses, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and the integration of acquired businesses. If we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. In May 2012, we announced a company-wide restructuring plan. The restructuring plan includes both voluntary early retirement programs and non-voluntary workforce reductions. Significant risks associated with these actions that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or that may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia, decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. In addition, our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these actions within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Competitive pressures could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, 18 Table of Contents security, availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings. If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and prospects could be harmed. We have a large portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across all of those businesses while competing with companies that have much smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of these product lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. Industry consolidation also may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. Companies with whom we have alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. In addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face aggressive price competition for our products and services and, as a result, we may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. For example, our Storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards converged products and solutions, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. In addition, the performance of our Business Critical Systems business unit has been affected by the decline in demand for UNIX servers and concerns about the development of new versions of software to support our Itanium-based products. Revenue and margins also could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. For example, growing demand for an increasing array of mobile computing devices and the development of cloud-based solutions has reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. In addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of HP's LaserJet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with our printing supplies business. If we cannot successfully execute on our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market products, services and solutions that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. Our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our portfolio of hardware, software and services as we adapt to a changing and hybrid model of IT delivery and consumption driven by the growing adoption of cloud computing and increased demand for integrated IT solutions. To successfully execute 19 Table of Contents on this strategy, we need to continue evolving our focus towards the delivery of integrated IT solutions for our customers and to continue to invest and expand into cloud computing, security, big data and mobility. Any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial results. The process of developing new high-technology products, software, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. For example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain, and protect, appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. In addition, after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or the employees of those contractors or subcontractors. In order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. However, the products, services and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errata, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third-parties. If we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. Addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. If new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. Our plan to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies is subject to various risks and uncertainties and may not be completed in accordance with the expected plans or anticipated timeline, or at all, and will involve significant time and expense, which could disrupt or adversely affect our business. On October 6, 2014, we announced plans to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies. The separation, which is currently targeted to be completed by the end of fiscal 2015, is subject to approval by our Board of Directors of the final terms of the separation and market, regulatory and certain other conditions. Unanticipated developments, including changes in the competitive conditions of Hewlett-Packard Enterprise's and HP Inc.'s respective markets, possible delays in obtaining various tax opinions or rulings, regulatory approvals or clearances, the uncertainty of the financial markets and challenges in executing the separation, could delay or prevent the 20 Table of Contents completion of the proposed separation, or cause the proposed separation to occur on terms or conditions that are different or less favorable than expected. We have established a Separation Management Office tasked with driving the separation process. We expect that the process of completing the proposed separation will be time-consuming and involve significant costs and expenses, which may be significantly higher than what we currently anticipate and may not yield a discernible benefit if the separation is not completed. Executing the proposed separation will require significant time and attention from our senior management and employees, which could adversely affect our business, financial results and results of operations. We may also experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees during the pendency of the separation and following its completion, which could harm our businesses. The separation may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits. We may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, marketing or other benefits from the separation. As independent publicly-traded companies, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. will be smaller, less diversified companies with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect their respective business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies will be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed separation not occurred. The proposed separation may result in disruptions to, and negatively impact our relationships with, our customers and other business partners. Uncertainty related to the proposed separation may lead customers and other parties with which we currently do business or may do business in the future to terminate or attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships, or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us. These disruptions could have a material and adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The effect of such disruptions could be exacerbated by any delays in the completion of the separation. The separation could result in substantial tax liability. We intend to obtain an opinion of outside counsel to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the separation will qualify, for both HP and its stockholders, as a reorganization within the meaning of Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In addition, we intend to obtain a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") and/or one or more opinions of outside counsel regarding certain matters impacting the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the separation for HP and certain related transactions as transactions that are generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The opinions of outside counsel and any IRS private letter ruling will be based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to outside counsel or the IRS. If any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the opinions and/or IRS private letter ruling may be affected. An opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the IRS or any court. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinions or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. In addition, we may incur certain tax costs in connection with the separation, including non-U.S. tax expense resulting from separations in multiple non-U.S. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. 21 Table of Contents Economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses. Our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and uncertainty have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. For example, we are continuing to experience macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the Europe, the Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") region, China and other high-growth markets. The U.S. federal government spending cuts that went into effect on March 1, 2013 may further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the U.S. government and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the United States, which could further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions. Economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. We also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. In addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliersand our suppliers from their suppliersdue to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. Economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. Any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. Poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. Interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. Our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. Our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. Delays or reductions in IT spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. In addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses, particularly our services businesses, may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. Competition, lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. Certain segments have a higher fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business units and product portfolios than others and may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. In addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and 22 Table of Contents maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. Market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. Moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margins and profitability could suffer. We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. Other distribution risks are described below. Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. Moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness and industry consolidation. Many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. Our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. We must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. Distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. We also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules. Given the wide variety 23 Table of Contents of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning, and inventory management that could seriously harm us. In addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource intensive than expected. Other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, as described below. Shortages. Occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. For example, our PC business relies heavily upon OMs to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those OMs to fulfill demand for our PC products. HP represents a substantial portion of the business of some of these OMs, and any changes to the nature or volume of business transacted by HP with a particular OM could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the OM and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that OM. If shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, and we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or services offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. Oversupply. In order to secure components for the provision of products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin. Contractual terms. As a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. If we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. In addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same OMs and suppliers that we utilize. Our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain OMs and suppliers could be limited. The practice employed by our PC business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its OMs may create large supplier receivables with the OMs that, depending on the financial condition of the OMs, may create collectibility risks. In addition, certain of our OMs and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. Any of these actions by our competitors, OMs or suppliers could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Contingent workers. We also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. We have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. Our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. Single source suppliers. Our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate any supplier issues. We obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. For example, we rely on Intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our PCs, workstations and servers and AMD to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other products. Some of those processors are customized for our products. New products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. Replacing a single source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. For some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from Intel, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase components from single source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. The performance of such single source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of components to HP. The loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and cash flows. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in California, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. In addition, six of our principal worldwide IT data centers are located in the southern United States, making our operations more vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in that geographical area. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including Shanghai, Singapore and India. We also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in Asia to manufacture and distribute our products and in the southwestern United States to import products into the Americas region. Our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general 25 Table of Contents infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. Our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. In some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of such quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. Alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. Depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in quarterly results and financial condition. For example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the U.S. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. European sales are often weaker during the summer months. Demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. Moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. Typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. Sales outside the United States make up approximately 65% of our net revenue. In addition, an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets, including Brazil, Russia, India and China. Our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific HP suppliers and OMs; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; 26 Table of Contents differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. The factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States. For example, we rely on manufacturers in Taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture. Currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro, the British pound, Chinese yuan renminbi and the Japanese Yen, can have an impact on our results (expressed in U.S. dollars). In particular, the economic uncertainties relating to European sovereign and other debt obligations and the related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. Currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. For example, in the event that one or more European countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into Europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably the strengthening of the dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. We use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. The effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. We may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as volatility and currency variations. In addition, our hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"). For example, as discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the German Public Prosecutor's Office has been investigating allegations that certain current and former employees of HP engaged in bribery, embezzlement and tax evasion. In addition, the Polish Central Anti-Corruption Bureau is conducting investigations into potential FCPA violations by a former employee of an HP subsidiary in connection with certain public-sector transactions in Poland. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. 27 Table of Contents Any failure by us to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects, and the costs, expenses and other financial and operational effects associated with managing, completing and integrating acquisitions may result in financial results that are different than expected. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. Risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: Managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. We may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing benefits of a business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers or other third-parties. Business combination and investment transactions have resulted, and in the future may result, in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, asset impairment charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. Our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third-parties or their representatives. Our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies. The pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. In order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders. We may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. Our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. 28 Table of Contents An announced business combination and investment transaction may not close timely or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. Business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation. If we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. For example, in our third fiscal quarter of 2012, we recorded an $8.0 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill associated with our enterprise services reporting unit within our former Services segment and a $1.2 billion impairment charge as a result of an asset impairment analysis of the "Compaq" trade name acquired in 2002. In addition, in our fourth fiscal quarter of 2012, we recorded an $8.8 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill and intangible assets associated with Autonomy. If there are future decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include goodwill impairment or intangible asset charges. Integration issues are often complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. The challenges involved in integration include: combining product and service offerings and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, persuading customers and distributors to not defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate IT infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-U.S. employees, integrating employees into HP, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third-parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards,