Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2024 (Form 10-K), filed with the SEC on November 25, 2024. The terms i3 Verticals, we, us and our and similar references refer (1) before the completion of our IPO or the reorganization transactions entered into in connection therewith (the Reorganization Transactions), which are described in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements, to i3 Verticals, LLC and, where appropriate, its subsidiaries, and (2) after the Reorganization Transactions to i3 Verticals, Inc. and, where appropriate, its subsidiaries. Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes statements that express our opinions, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or projections regarding future events or future results and therefore are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this report may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, pro forma, continues, anticipates, expects, seeks, projects, intends, plans, may, will, would or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: our ability to protect our systems and data from continually evolving cybersecurity risks or other technological risks, including the impact of any cybersecurity incidents or security breaches; liability and reputation damage from unauthorized disclosure, destruction or modification of data or disruption of our services; technical, operational and regulatory risks related to our information technology systems and third-party providers systems; our ability to execute on our strategy and achieve our goals following the completion of the sale of our Merchant Services Business; our ability to successfully manage our intellectual property; the triggering of impairment testing of our fair-valued assets, including goodwill and intangible assets, in the event of a decline in the price of our Class A common stock or otherwise; our ability to generate revenues sufficient to maintain profitability and positive cash flow; competition in our industry and our ability to compete effectively; consolidation in the banking and financial services industry; risk of shortages, price increases, changes, delays or discontinuations of hardware due to supply chain disruptions with respect to our limited number of suppliers; impact of inflation and fluctuations in interest rates (including current elevated interest rate levels) and the potential effect of such fluctuations on revenues, expenses and resulting margins; our ability to keep pace with rapid developments and changes in our industry and provide new products and services; reliance on third parties for significant services; exposure to economic conditions and political risks affecting consumer, commercial and government spending, including any decline in the use of credit cards; changes in the budgets or regulatory environments of our Public Sector customers, primarily local and state governments, that could negatively impact spending; our ability to increase our existing vertical markets, grow within the current vertical markets in which we operate and execute our growth strategy; our ability to successfully identify acquisition targets, complete those acquisitions and effectively integrate those acquisitions into our services; 45 potential degradation of the quality of our products, services and support; our ability to retain customers; our ability to attract, recruit, retain and develop key personnel and qualified employees; risks related to laws, regulations, and industry standards; risk of chargeback liabilities if our customers refuse or cannot reimburse chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers; risks related to laws, regulations and industry standards, including our ability to comply with complex laws and regulations applicable to the healthcare industry or to adjust our operations in response to changing laws and regulations; the impact of recent decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court regarding the actions of federal agencies; the impact of government investigations, claims, and litigation; the effects of health reform initiatives; risks related to our international operations; our indebtedness and our ability to maintain compliance with the financial covenants in our 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility (as defined below); our ability to meet our liquidity needs; our ability to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, if at all, whether through debt, equity or a combination thereof; operating and financial restrictions imposed by our 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility; risks related to the accounting method for i3 Verticals, LLC's 1.0% Exchangeable Notes due February 15, 2025 (the "Exchangeable Notes"); our ability to raise the funds necessary to settle exchanges of the Exchangeable Notes or to repurchase the Exchangeable Notes upon a fundamental change; and the "Risk Factors" included in our Form 10-K and included in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, if any. We caution you that the foregoing list may not contain all of the forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Although we base these forward-looking statements on assumptions that we believe are reasonable when made, we caution you that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that our actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and industry developments may differ materially from statements made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The matters summarized in Risk Factors in our Form 10-K, and in subsequent filings could cause our actual results to differ significantly from those contained in our forward-looking statements. In addition, even if our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and industry developments are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this filing, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods. In light of these risks and uncertainties, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement that we make in this filing speaks only as of the date of such statement, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or to publicly announce the results of any revision to any of those statements to reflect future events or developments, except as required by applicable law. Comparisons of results for current and any prior periods are not intended to express any future trends or indications of future performance, unless specifically expressed as such, and should only be viewed as historical data. Executive Overview The Company delivers seamless integrated software and services to customers in strategic vertical markets. Building on its broad suite of software and services solutions, the Company creates and acquires software products to serve the specific needs of its customers. The Company's primary strategic verticals are Public Sector and Healthcare. 46 Economic Trends Inflationary pressures, elevated interest rate levels, monetary policy, and the current geopolitical situation (including the military conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine), are causing broad economic uncertainty and could potentially cause new, or exacerbate existing, economic challenges that may impact us. These conditions could worsen as a result of adverse economic developments impacting the U.S. and/or global economies, including as a result of monetary policy designed to curb inflation. As the future magnitude, duration and effects of these conditions are difficult to predict at this time, we are unable to predict the extent of the potential effect on our financial results. Liquidity At December 31, 2024, we had $85.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $450.0 million of available capacity under our 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility subject to our financial covenants. As of December 31, 2024, we were in compliance with these covenants with a consolidated interest coverage ratio and total leverage ratio 3.7x, and 0.1x, respectively. For additional information about our Exchangeable Notes and 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility, see the section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources below. Sale of Merchant Services Business On September 20, 2024, i3 Verticals, LLC, and i3 Holdings Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of i3 Verticals, LLC (Corporation Seller, and collectively with i3 Verticals, LLC, the Sellers) completed the transactions (such closing, the Closing) contemplated by that certain Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of June 26, 2024 (the Purchase Agreement), by and among i3 Verticals, LLC, Corporation Seller, the Company (solely for the purpose of providing a guaranty of the obligations of Sellers as set forth in the Purchase Agreement), Payroc Buyer, LLC (Buyer), and Payroc WorldAccess, LLC (solely for the purpose of providing a guaranty of the obligations of Buyer as set forth in the Purchase Agreement), the entry into which Purchase Agreement was previously disclosed in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on June 26, 2024. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Sellers sold to Buyer the equity interests of certain direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Sellers (the Acquired Entities) primarily comprising the Company's merchant services business, including its associated proprietary technology (the Merchant Services Business), after giving effect to the contribution of certain assets and the assignment of certain liabilities associated with the Merchant Services Business from i3 Verticals, LLC and certain affiliates to the Acquired Entities pursuant to a contribution agreement which was entered into immediately prior to the Closing. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, Buyer paid to Sellers an aggregate purchase price of approximately $438 million (after giving effect to estimated net working capital, indebtedness and cash adjustments), payable in cash at the Closing, subject to post-closing purchase price adjustments. The Merchant Services Business comprised our entire former Merchant Services segment and a small portion of our former Software and Services segment. Acquisitions A core component of our growth strategy includes a disciplined approach to acquisitions of companies and technology, evidenced by numerous platform acquisitions and tuck-in acquisitions since our inception in 2012. Our acquisitions have increased the number of businesses and organizations to whom we provide solutions and augmented our existing proprietary payment facilitator platform and software solutions and capabilities. Acquisitions during the three months ended December 31, 2024 During the three months ended December 31, 2024, we did not complete any acquisitions. Acquisitions during the three months ended December 31, 2023 During the three months ended December 31, 2023, we completed the acquisition of one business to expand our software offerings. Total purchase consideration was $1.3 million, including $1.1 million in cash funded by the proceeds from our revolving credit facility and $0.2 million in contingent consideration. 47 Our Revenue and Expenses Revenues We generate revenue from software and related services revenue, including the sale of subscriptions, recurring services, ongoing support, licenses, and installation and implementation services specific to software. We also generate revenue from volume-based payment processing fees (discount fees) that we provide to our customers directly through our software. Volume-based fees represent a percentage of the dollar amount of each credit or debit transaction processed. Revenues are also derived from a variety of fixed transaction or service fees, including authorization fees, convenience fees, statement fees, annual fees and fees for other miscellaneous services, such as handling chargebacks. Interchange and network fees. Interchange and network fees consist primarily of pass-through fees that make up a portion of discount fee revenue. These include assessment fees payable to card associations, which are a percentage of the processing volume we generate from Visa and Mastercard. These fees are presented net of revenue. Expenses Other costs of services. Other costs of services include costs directly related to our software and related services. Additionally, other costs of services include costs directly attributable related to payment processing services such as processing and bank sponsorship. Losses resulting from chargebacks against a customer are included in other cost of services. Residual payments to our distribution partners and the cost of equipment sold is also included in cost of services. Amortization arising from capitalized software development is not included in other cost of services. Other costs of services are recognized at the time the related revenue is recognized. Following the disposal of our Merchant Services Business in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024, our core business is providing software solutions for key verticals. Given the change in our business model, we have reclassified certain expenses to better align with the primary industry in which we now operate. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, we revised our presentation of certain expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations from selling, general and administrative expenses to other costs of services. We reclassified personnel costs related to installation of our software, conversion of client data, training client personnel, customer support activities and various other services provided directly to customers from selling, general and administrative to other costs of services. We also reclassified certain hosting and related software costs for directly supporting our customers from selling, general and administrative to other costs of services. Refer to Note 3 for discussion of the change in the current and prior period presentation. Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses include certain salaries and other employment costs, professional services, internal technology expenses, rent and utilities and other operating costs. Salaries and other employment costs within selling, general and administrative include individuals associated with shared services, product development, sales and other functions. Following the disposal of our Merchant Services Business in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024, our core business is providing software solutions for key verticals. Given the change in our business model, we have reclassified certain expenses to better align with the primary industry in which we now operate. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, we revised our presentation of certain expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations from selling, general and administrative expenses to other costs of services. Refer to Note 3 for discussion of the change in the current and prior period presentation. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation expense consists of depreciation on our investments in property, equipment and computer hardware and software. Depreciation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. Amortization expense for acquired intangible assets and internally developed software is recognized using a proportional cash flow method. Amortization expense for internally developed software is recognized over the estimated useful life of the asset. The useful lives of contract-based intangible assets are equal to the terms of the agreement. Interest (income) expense, net. Our interest expense consists of interest on our outstanding indebtedness under our 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility, our Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility and Exchangeable Notes, and amortization of debt issuance costs. Interest income is generated from cash and cash equivalents held at financial institutions. 48 How We Assess Our Business As a result of the sale of the Merchant Services Business, the historical results of the Merchant Services segment and a small portion of the historical Software and Services segment which had been included in the Merchant Services Business have been reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements. After giving effect to these developments, the Company has two reportable segments, Public Sector and Healthcare, and an Other category. Public Sector Our Public Sector segment has products and solutions that create an efficient flow of information throughout a variety of public sector entities. We serve customers at both the state and local level and our geographic reach covers most of the United States and some of Canada. Our solutions help our customers provide more responsive and efficient services to their citizens and stakeholders. Healthcare Our Healthcare segment is dedicated to delivering integrated solutions across the healthcare ecosystem, catering to providers and payers, with a strong emphasis on enhancing process efficiency and ensuring compliance. Other The Other category includes corporate overhead expenses, technology resources shared across segments and inter-segment eliminations. For additional information on our segments, see Note 16 to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Key Performance Indicators We evaluate our performance through various metrics, including the following key performance indicators: Annualized recurring revenue ("ARR"); Adjusted EBITDA margin ARR is the annualized revenue derived from software-as-a-service (SaaS) arrangements, transaction-based software-revenue, software maintenance, recurring software-based services, payments revenue and other recurring revenue sources within the quarter. This excludes contracts that are not recurring or are one-time in nature. We focus on ARR because it helps us to assess the health and trajectory of our business. ARR does not have a standardized definition and is therefore unlikely to be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. It should be reviewed independently of revenue and it is not a forecast. Additionally, ARR does not take into account seasonality. The active contracts at the end of a reporting period used in calculating ARR may or may not be extended or renewed by our customers. ARR from continuing operations for the three months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 was $193.3 million and $179.6 million, respectively, representing a period-to-period growth rate of 8%. Adjusted EBITDA margin is used by the Company to measure operating performance and for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to our business segments. Adjusted EBITDA margin for any particular period is adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue for such period. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as earnings adjusted to exclude interest, tax, depreciation, amortization, stock-compensation expense, non-cash changes in the fair value of contingent consideration, M&A-related expenses, and certain other adjustments that management believes are not reflective of our underlying operations. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are presented at a segment level in our financial statement footnotes in accordance with ASC 280 Segment Reporting. Adjusted EBITDA margin for our public sector segment was 39% and 40% for the three months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Further, Adjusted EBITDA margin for our healthcare segment was 28% and 24% for the three months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. For additional information regarding Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, see Note 16. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, when presented on a consolidated basis in our other public disclosures, are non-GAAP financial measures. 49 Results of Operations As a result of the sale of the Merchant Services Business, the historical results of the Merchant Services Business have been reflected as discontinued operations in our condensed consolidated financial statements. Prior period results of operations and balance sheet information have been recast to reflect this presentation, and the discussion below relates to our continuing operations after giving effect to the reclassification for the Merchant Services Business as discontinued operations. Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2023 The following table presents our historical results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended December 31, Change (in thousands) 2024 2023 Amount % Revenue $ 61,691 $ 55,054 $ 6,637 12.1 % Operating expenses Other costs of services (excluding depreciation and amortization)(1) 21,031 19,577 1,454 7.4 % Selling, general and administrative(1) 28,900 27,175 1,725 6.3 % Depreciation and amortization 7,684 7,054 630 8.9 % Change in fair value of contingent consideration 1,377 (237) 1,614 n/m Total operating expenses 58,992 53,569 5,423 10.1 % Income from operations 2,699 1,485 1,214 81.8 % Other (income) expenses Interest expense 680 6,687 (6,007) (89.8) % Other (income) expense (1,826) 107 (1,933) n/m Total other (income) expenses (1,146) 6,794 (7,940) n/m Income (loss) before income taxes 3,845 (5,309) 9,154 n/m Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 523 (1,094) 1,617 n/m Net income (loss) from continuing operations 3,322 (4,215) 7,537 n/m Net (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (214) 5,751 (5,965) n/m Net income 3,108 1,536 1,572 102.3 % Net income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to non-controlling interest 1,128 (1,330) 2,458 n/m Net (loss) income from discontinued operations attributable to non-controlling interest (76) 1,768 (1,844) n/m Net income attributable to non-controlling interest 1,052 438 614 140.2 % Net income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to i3 Verticals, Inc. 2,194 (2,885) 5,079 n/m Net (loss) income from discontinued operations attributable to i3 Verticals, Inc. (138) 3,983 (4,121) n/m Net income attributable to i3 Verticals, Inc. $ 2,056 $ 1,098 $ 958 87.2 % n/m = not meaningful _________________________________________ 1.Refer to Note 3 for discussion of the change in the current and prior period presentation. 50 Revenue Revenue increased $6.6 million, or 12.1%, to $61.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from $55.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023. This increase included incremental revenue from an acquisition within the Public Sector vertical of $1.2 million, net of intercompany eliminations. The remaining increase was primarily driven by an increase of $2.9 million in recurring revenues, an increase of $2.3 million in software license revenue. Revenue within Public Sector increased $5.3 million, or 12.2%, to $48.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from $43.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023. This increase included incremental revenue from an acquisition of $1.2 million, net of intercompany eliminations. The remaining increase was primarily driven by an increase in recurring revenues of $3.0 million and an increase of $0.7 million in software license revenue. Revenue within Healthcare increased $1.6 million, or 13.7%, to $13.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from $11.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023. This increase was mostly driven by an increase in software license revenue of $1.6 million. Other Costs of Services Other costs of services increased $1.5 million, or 7.4%, to $21.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from $19.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023. This increase included incremental other costs of services from an acquisition within the Public Sector vertical of $0.3 million, net of intercompany eliminations. The remaining increase was primarily driven by an increase in internal personnel costs of $1.4 million partially offset by a decrease of $0.5 million in stock compensation expense within other costs of services for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from the three months ended December 31, 2023. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.7 million to $28.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from from $27.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023. This increase included incremental SG&A expenses from an acquisition within the Public Sector vertical of $0.9 million, net of intercompany eliminations The remaining increase was primarily driven by an increase in internal personnel costs of $1.6 million and internal technology costs $0.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from the three months ended December 31, 2023, partially offset by a decrease in stock compensation expense within selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.0 million and a decrease in professional services expense of $0.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from the three months ended December 31, 2023. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization increased $0.6 million, or 8.9%, to $7.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from $7.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023. Amortization expense increased $0.6 million to $7.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from $6.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023 primarily due to an increase in capitalized software project releases, driving an increase in amortization expense. Depreciation expense increased slightly by $48 thousand to $0.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from $0.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration Change in fair value of contingent consideration to be paid in connection with acquisitions was a charge of $1.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 related to adjustments to the expected present value of consideration to be paid for earnouts. The change in fair value of contingent consideration for the three months ended December 31, 2023 was a benefit of $0.2 million. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $6.0 million, or 89.8%, to $0.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from $6.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023. The decrease reflects a lower average outstanding debt balance for the three months ended December 31, 2024, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2023. 51 Other (Income) Expense Other income was $1.8 million during the three months ended December 31, 2024, and other expense was $0.1 million during the three months ended December 31, 2023. Other income during the the three months ended December 31, 2024 reflects income generated from cash held at financial institutions of $0.7 million, a gain on disposal of property and equipment of $0.6 million related to the sale of a building and automobiles purchased through previous acquisitions and income from the Transition Services Agreement and Processing Services Agreement related to the sale of the Merchant Services Business of $0.5 million. Other expense during the three months ended December 31, 2023 reflects a loss on disposal of property and equipment related to the sale of a building purchased through an acquisition. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes The provision for income taxes increased to a provision for $0.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from a benefit of $1.1 million for three months ended December 31, 2023. Our effective tax rate was 14% for the three months ended December 31, 2024. Our effective tax rate differs from the federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the tax structure of the Company. The income of majority-owned i3 Verticals, LLC is not taxed at the entity-level. i3 Verticals, Inc. is subject to federal, state and local income taxes with respect to its allocable share of any taxable income of i3 Verticals, LLC and is taxed at the prevailing corporate tax rates. Net (Loss) Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes We had $0.2 million in net loss from discontinued operations, net of income tax, for the three months ended December 31, 2024 compared to $5.8 million in net income from discontinued operations, net of income tax, for the three months ended December 31, 2023. See Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information and detail on the financial results of discontinued operations. The net loss from discontinued operations, net of income tax, for the three months ended December 31, 2024 reflects adjustments to the gain on the sale of the Merchant Services Business. The net income from discontinued operations, net of income tax, for the three months ended December 31, 2023 included a complete quarter of business activity, including revenue of $36.9 million, operating expenses of $29.9 million, and a provision for income taxes of $1.3 million. Seasonality We have experienced in the past, and may continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues as a result of consumer and business spending patterns. The number of business days in a month or quarter also may affect seasonal fluctuations. Certain revenues in our Public Sector segment fluctuate with the fiscal calendars of our customers. Transactional revenue for our Education customers is strongest in August, September, October, January and February, at the start of each semester, and generally weakens throughout the semester, with little revenue in the summer months of June and July. Operating expenses show less seasonal fluctuation, with the result that net income is subject to the same seasonal factors as our revenues. The growth in our business may have partially overshadowed seasonal trends to date, and seasonal impacts on our business may be more pronounced in the future. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically financed our operations and working capital through net cash from operating activities. As of December 31, 2024, we had $85.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and available borrowing capacity of $450.0 million under our 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility, subject to the financial covenants. We usually minimize cash balances by making payments on our revolving line of credit to minimize borrowings and interest expense. As of December 31, 2024, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility. For additional information about our 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility, see the section entitled " 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility" below. 52 Our primary cash needs are to fund working capital requirements, make capital expenditures and otherwise invest in our technology infrastructure, fund acquisitions and related contingent consideration, make scheduled principal and interest payments on our outstanding indebtedness, pay tax distributions to members of i3 Verticals, LLC as discussed below, and make repurchases of shares of Class A common stock under our share repurchase program as discussed below. We consistently have positive cash flow provided by operations and expect that our cash flow from operations, current cash and cash equivalents and available borrowing capacity under the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility will be sufficient to fund our cash needs as described above for at least the next twelve months and foreseeable future. Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. We expect to fund acquisitions through a combination of net cash from operating activities, borrowings under our 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility and through the issuance of equity and debt securities. As a holding company, we depend on distributions or loans from i3 Verticals, LLC to access funds earned by our operations. The covenants contained in the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility may restrict i3 Verticals, LLCs ability to provide funds to i3 Verticals, Inc. Our liquidity profile reflects our completed offering in February 2020 of an aggregate principal amount of $138.0 million in 1.0% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2025, with substantially all the proceeds being used to pay down outstanding borrowings under our Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility. After giving effect to the repurchase of $90.8 million in aggregate principal amount of the 1.0% Exchangeable Senior Notes on January 18, 2024 as described below as well as the repurchase of $21.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Exchangeable Senior Notes in open market purchases in 2020, the aggregate principal amount of the Exchangeable Notes that is currently outstanding is $26.2 million. The Exchangeable Notes mature on February 15, 2025, unless earlier exchanged, redeemed or repurchased. We may elect from time to time to purchase our outstanding debt in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such debt repurchases will depend upon prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, applicable securities law and other factors. Our 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility, as amended, requires us to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio not less than 3.0 to 1.0 and total leverage ratio not exceeding 5.0 to 1.0. As of December 31, 2024, we were in compliance with these covenants with a consolidated interest coverage ratio and total leverage ratio of 3.7x and 0.1x, respectively. Although we believe our liquidity position remains strong, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional funds, in the form of debt or equity, or to amend our 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility on terms acceptable to us, if at all, even if we determined such actions were necessary in the future. Although we believe our liquidity position remains strong, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional funds, in the form of debt or equity, or to amend our 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility on terms acceptable to us, if at all, even if we determined such actions were necessary in the future. Upon the completion of the sale of our Merchant Services Business, we used the net proceeds from such transactions to fully satisfy the then outstanding amount of the Revolver under the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility, and have used and expect to continue to use the remaining net proceeds for general corporate purposes, including repurchases under our share repurchase authorization as described below. In January 2025, i3 Verticals, LLC, a pass-through entity in which the Company holds a majority ownership interest, made a tax distribution (the LLC Tax Distribution) to the Company and the other members of i3 Verticals, LLC (the Continuing Equity Owners) related to the taxable income associated with the gain on the sale of the Merchant Services Business completed in September 2024 that is anticipated to be recognized for 2024 federal income tax purposes by members of the Company. As a result of differences in the amount of net taxable income allocable to the Company and to the Continuing Equity Owners and the higher assumed tax rate of the Continuing Equity Owners than the tax rate of the Company, this LLC Tax Distribution resulted in the Company holding cash in excess of the Companys tax liabilities, its obligation to make payments under its tax receivables agreement, and any other expected liabilities of the Company. Thereafter, on January 23, 2025, the Company and i3 Verticals, LLC effected certain recapitalization actions in order to reduce excess cash held at the Company following this LLC Tax Distribution. For additional information regarding the ownership interest of the Company in i3 Verticals, LLC and the capitalization of i3 Verticals, LLC, see Note 1 to the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contained in this report. For additional information regarding these recapitalization transactions, see Note 20 to the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contained in this report. 53 Cash Flows The discussion of our cash flows that follows does not include the impact of any adjustments to remove the Merchant Services Business as discontinued operations and is stated on a total company consolidated basis. The following table presents a summary of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the following comparative periods. Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 Three months ended December 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 11,495 $ 14,405 Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,418) $ (7,171) Net cash used in financing activities $ (10,467) $ (8,550) Cash Flow from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $2.9 million to $11.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from $14.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023. Our net income increased from $1.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023 to $3.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024. The primary driver of the decrease in cash provided by operating activities despite the increase in net income was reductions in non-cash expenses that increase net income but do not impact cash flows from operating activities. These changes in non-cash income and expenses included a decrease in equity-based compensation expense of $2.7 million, a decrease in depreciation and amortization of $2.1 million, a decrease in the provision for deferred income taxes of $0.9 million and a decrease in other non-cash adjustments to net income of $0.8 million, which includes gains on sales of property and equipment as well as other non-cash adjustments to net income. These reductions in non-cash expenses were partially offset by an increase in changes in non-cash contingent consideration of $1.6 million and an increase in changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $0.8 million, which are impacted by the timing of collections and payments, for the three months ended December 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2023. Cash Flow from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased $5.8 million to $1.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from $7.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023. The largest drivers of the decrease in cash used in investing activities were a decrease of $2.9 million in purchases of merchant portfolios and residual buyouts, a decrease of $1.1 million in cash used in acquisitions, net of cash acquired, an increase of $0.8 million in proceeds from the sale of property and equipment and a decrease of $0.7 million in expenditures for capitalized software during the three months ended December 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2023. Cash Flow from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased $1.9 million to $10.5 million net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended December 31, 2024 from $8.6 million net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended December 31, 2023. The largest driver of the increase in cash used in financing activities was $11.2 million cash paid for repurchases of class A common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2024. This increase in cash used in financing activities was partially offset by no net activity in the revolving credit facility during the three months ended December 31, 2024, compared to a net $7.0 million in payments on the revolving credit facility in excess of proceeds from the revolving credit facilities during the three months ended December 31, 2023, and a decrease in net payments for settlement obligations of $1.9 million during the three months ended December 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2023. 2023 Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility On May 8, 2023, i3 Verticals, LLC (the Borrower), entered into that certain Credit Agreement (as amended, the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility) with the guarantors and lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (JPMorgan). The 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility replaces the Prior 54 Senior Secured Credit Facility. The 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility provides for aggregate commitments of $450 million in the form of a senior secured revolving credit facility (the Revolver). In addition, on June 26, 2024, the Borrower entered into the first amendment to the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility (the Amendment). Among other things, the Amendment permitted the execution of the Purchase Agreement and the consummation of the sale of the Merchant Services Business. Certain provisions of the Amendment were effective as of the date of the Amendment, and certain other provisions became effective upon the closing of the sale of the Merchant Services Business. The 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility provides that the Borrower has the right to seek additional commitments to provide additional term loan facilities or additional revolving credit commitments in an aggregate principal amount up to, as of any date of determination, the sum of (i) the greater of $100 million and 100% of the Borrowers consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility) for the most recently completed four quarter period, plus (ii) the amount of certain prepayments of certain indebtedness, so long as, among other things, after giving pro forma effect to the incurrence of such additional borrowings and any related transactions, the Borrowers consolidated interest coverage ratio (as defined in the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility) would not be less than 3.0 to 1.0 and the Borrowers consolidated total net leverage ratio (as defined in the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility) would not exceed 5.0 to 1.0. As of December 31, 2024, the Borrower's consolidated interest coverage ratio was 3.7x and total leverage ratio was 0.1x. The provision of any such additional amounts under the additional term loan facilities or additional revolving credit commitments are subject to certain additional conditions and the receipt of certain additional commitments by existing or additional lenders. The lenders under the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility are not under any obligation to provide any such additional term loan facilities or revolving credit commitments. The proceeds of the Revolver, together with proceeds from any additional amounts under the additional term loan facilities or additional revolving credit commitments, may only be used by the Borrower to (i) finance working capital, capital expenditures and other lawful corporate purposes, (ii) finance permitted acquisitions (as defined in the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility) and (iii) to refinance certain existing indebtedness. Borrowings under the Revolver will be made, at the Borrowers option, at the Adjusted Term SOFR rate or the base rate, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The Adjusted Term SOFR rate will be the rate of interest per annum equal to the Term SOFR rate (based upon an interest period of one, three or six months), plus 0.10%; plus an applicable margin of 2.00% to 3.00% (2.00% at December 31, 2024). The Adjusted Term SOFR rate shall not be less than 0% in any event. The base rate is a fluctuating rate of interest per annum equal to the highest of (a) the greater of the federal funds rate or the overnight bank funding rate, plus of 1%, (b) Wall Street Journal prime rate and (c) the Adjusted Term SOFR rate for an interest period of one month, plus 1%; plus an applicable margin of 1.00% to 2.00% (1.00% at December 31, 2024). The base rate shall not be less than 1% in any event. The applicable margin is based upon the Borrowers consolidated total net leverage ratio (as defined in the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility), as reflected in the schedule below: Consolidated Total Net Leverage Ratio Commitment Fee Letter of Credit Fee Term Benchmark Loans Base Rate Loans > 3.0 to 1.0 0.30 % 3.00 % 3.00 % 2.00 % > 2.5 to 1.0 but 2.0 to 1.0 but < 2.5 to 1.0 0.20 % 2.25 % 2.25 % 1.25 % < 2.0 to 1.0 0.15 % 2.00 % 2.00 % 1.00 % 55 In addition to paying interest on outstanding principal under the Revolver, the Borrower will be required to pay a commitment fee equal to the product of between 0.15% and 0.30% (the applicable percentage depending on the Borrowers consolidated total net leverage ratio as reflected in the schedule above, 0.15% at December 31, 2024) times the actual daily amount by which $450 million exceeds the total amount outstanding under the Revolver and available to be drawn under all outstanding letters of credit. The Borrower will be permitted to voluntarily reduce the unutilized portion of the commitment amount and repay outstanding loans under the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility, whether such amounts are issued under the Revolver or under the additional term loan facilities or additional revolving credit facilities, at any time without premium or penalty. In addition, if the total amount borrowed under the Revolver exceeds $450 million at any time, the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility requires the Borrower to prepay such excess outstanding amounts. All obligations under the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility are unconditionally guaranteed by the Company, and each of the Companys existing and future direct and indirect material, wholly owned domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. The obligations are secured by first-priority security interests in substantially all tangible and intangible assets of the Borrower, the Company and each subsidiary guarantor, in each case whether owned on the date of the initial borrowings or thereafter acquired. The 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility places certain restrictions on the ability of the Borrower, the Company and their subsidiaries to, among other things, incur debt and liens; merge, consolidate or liquidate; dispose of assets; enter into hedging arrangements; make certain restricted payments; undertake transactions with affiliates; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; make certain investments; prepay or modify the terms of certain indebtedness; and modify the terms of certain organizational agreements. The 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility contains customary events of default, including payment defaults, breaches of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, certain events of bankruptcy and insolvency, material judgments, certain events with respect to employee benefit plans, invalidity of loan documents and certain changes in control. As of December 31, 2024, we were in compliance with these covenants, with a consolidated interest coverage ratio and total leverage ratio of 3.71x and 0.07x, respectively. Exchangeable Notes On February 18, 2020, i3 Verticals, LLC issued $138.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 1.0% Exchangeable Notes due February 15, 2025. The Exchangeable Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 1.0% per year, payable semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning on August 15, 2020. The Exchangeable Notes are exchangeable into cash, shares of the Company's Class A common stock, or a combination thereof, at i3 Verticals, LLC's election. As of August 15, 2024, the Exchangeable Notes became exchangeable by the holders thereof at any time until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date. The Exchangeable Notes mature on February 15, 2025, unless earlier exchanged, redeemed or repurchased. The net proceeds from the sale of the Exchangeable Notes were approximately $132.8 million, after deducting discounts and commissions to the certain initial purchasers and other estimated fees and expenses. i3 Verticals, LLC used a portion of the net proceeds of the Exchangeable Notes offering to pay down outstanding borrowings under the Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility in connection with the effectiveness of the operative provisions of the amendment to the Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility and to pay the cost of the Note Hedge Transactions. As of December 31, 2024, $26.2 million of the original aggregate principal amount of $138.0 million was outstanding. On December 21, 2023, i3 Verticals, LLC entered into agreements to repurchase a portion of its Exchangeable Notes pursuant to privately negotiated transactions with a limited number of holders of the Exchangeable Notes (the "Exchangeable Note Repurchases"). The Exchangeable Note Repurchases were completed on January 18, 2024, and the Company paid $87.4 million to repurchase $90.8 million in aggregate principal amount of its Exchangeable Notes and to repay approximately $0.4 million in accrued interest on the repurchased portion of the Exchangeable Notes. Following the closing of the Exchangeable Note Repurchases, 56 approximately $26.2 million in aggregate principal amount of the Exchangeable Notes remained outstanding, with terms unchanged. For additional information, see Note 8 to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Material Cash Requirements The following table summarizes our material cash requirements as of December 31, 2024, including those related to leases and borrowings: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than 5 years (in thousands) Facility leases(1) $ 9,784 $ 3,983 $ 4,017 $ 1,313 $ 471 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility and related interest(2) 2,266 675 1,350 241 Exchangeable Notes and related interest(3) 26,256 26,256 Contingent consideration(4) 3,669 339 3,330 Total $ 41,975 $ 31,253 $ 8,697 $ 1,554 $ 471 __________________________ 1.In addition to the facility leases presented, we have $59.0 thousand in short-term leases. These payments will be made within the next twelve months. 2.We estimated interest payments through the maturity of our 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility by the unused fee rate of 0.15% in effect as of December 31, 2024. 3.The chart set forth above calculates interest payments through the maturity of our Exchangeable Notes by applying the coupon interest rate of 1.0% on the principal balance as of December 31, 2024 of $26.2 million. 4.In connection with certain of our acquisitions, we may be obligated to pay the seller of the acquired entity certain amounts of contingent consideration as set forth in the relevant purchasing documents, whereby additional consideration may be due upon the achievement of certain specified financial performance targets. i3 Verticals, Inc. accounts for the fair values of such contingent payments in accordance with the Level 3 financial instrument fair value hierarchy at the close of each subsequent reporting period. The acquisition-date fair value of contingent consideration is valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. i3 Verticals, Inc. subsequently reassesses such fair value based on probability estimates with respect to the acquired entitys likelihood of achieving the respective financial performance targets. Potential payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are not reflected in this table. See Tax Receivable Agreement below. Share Repurchase Program On August 8, 2024, the Company announced that our Board of Directors had approved a share repurchase program for the Company's Class A common stock, under which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $50.0 million of outstanding shares of our Class A common stock (exclusive of fees, commissions or other expenses related to such repurchases) (the "Share Repurchase Program"). The Share Repurchase Program will terminate on the earlier of August 8, 2025, or when the maximum dollar amount under the Share Repurchase Program has been expended. Pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program, the Company is authorized to make repurchases of our Class A Common Stock in the open market, through privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise, including under Rule 10b5-1 plans. Repurchases under the Share Repurchase Program are subject to prevailing market conditions, liquidity and cash flow considerations, applicable securities laws requirements (including under Rule 10b-18 and Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as applicable), compliance with contractual restrictions under the 2023 Senior Secured Credit Facility, and other factors. In addition, the terms of the Share Repurchase Program provide that, immediately prior to repurchases of Class A common stock under the Share Repurchase Program, i3 Verticals, LLC redeems for cash an equal number of units held by the Company in i3 Verticals, LLC in order to fund such repurchases and maintain a 1-1 ratio between the number of outstanding shares of Class A common stock and the units held by the Company in i3 Verticals, LLC. The Share Repurchase Program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of Class A Common Stock, and the Share Repurchase Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion. The Company repurchased 496,785 shares of Class A Common Stock at an average price of $22.49 under the Share Repurchase Program during the three months ended December 31, 2024. 57 Tax Receivable Agreement We are a party to a Tax Receivable Agreement with i3 Verticals, LLC and each of the Continuing Equity Owners, as described in Note 10 of our condensed consolidated financial statements. As a result of the Tax Receivable Agreement, we have been required to establish a liability in our condensed consolidated financial statements. That liability, which will increase upon the redemptions or exchanges of Common Units for our Class A common stock, generally represents 85% of the estimated future tax benefits, if any, relating to the increase in tax basis associated with the Common Units we received as a result of the Reorganization Transactions and other redemptions or exchanges by holders of Common Units. If this election is made, the accelerated payment will be based on the present value of 100% of the estimated future tax benefits and, as a result, the associated liability reported on our condensed consolidated financial statements may be increased. We expect that the payments required under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be substantial. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of redemptions or exchanges by the holders of Common Units, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the redemption or exchange, whether such redemptions or exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future and the tax rate then applicable as well as the portion of our payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement constituting imputed interest. We intend to fund the payment of the amounts due under the Tax Receivable Agreement out of the cash savings that we actually realize in respect of the attributes to which Tax Receivable Agreement relates. As of December 31, 2024, the total amount due under the Tax Receivable Agreement was $39.2 million, and payments to the Continuing Equity Owners related to exchanges through December 31, 2024 will range from $0 to $9.9 million per year and are expected to be paid over the next 22 years. The amounts recorded as of December 31, 2024, approximate the current estimate of expected tax savings and are subject to change after the filing of the Companys U.S. federal and state income tax returns. Future payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement with respect to subsequent exchanges would be in addition to these amounts. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, goodwill and intangible assets, contingent consideration, and equity-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Critical accounting policies are those that we consider the most critical to understanding our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2024, there have been no significant changes to our critical accounting estimates disclosed in the Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 25, 2024.