Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Merchant Services Our Merchant Services segment provides comprehensive payment solutions to businesses and organizations. Our Merchant Services segment includes third-party integrated payment solutions as well as merchant of record payment services across our strategic vertical markets. Proprietary Software and Payments Our Proprietary Software and Payments segment delivers solutions to our clients, including embedded payments, through company-owned software. Payments are delivered through both the payment facilitator model and the merchant of record processing model. We have Proprietary Software and Payments clients across all of our strategic vertical markets. Other Our Other category includes corporate overhead expenses, when presenting reportable segment information. Our Products, Solutions and Technology We deliver to our clients and distribution partners a comprehensive suite of integrated payment technology and software solutions to address the needs of SMBs and organizations in our strategic vertical markets. Our products and solutions are strategically aligned to support new client growth and promote customer retention. We have developed a suite of payment technology solutions that: integrate with a broad number of client business management systems; perform a broad range of risk management, transaction processing and value-added services beneficial to our clients; 7 increase convenience to our clients; provide ease of use and greater functionality for our clients; offer validated point-to-point encryption (P2PE); and offer PCI-compliant security and extensive reporting tools. We offer our clients a single point of access through our powerful, simple and capable proprietary core platform (the Burton Platform). Combining a centralized environment for scalability, PCI Service Level Provider (SLP) Level 1 security and redundancy, the Burton Platform offers a broad suite of payment and software solutions, enabling omni-channel POS, spanning brick and mortar locations and electronic- and mobile-commerce, including app-based payments. We employ project management, release management and product development lifecycle methodologies that enable us to deploy initial downloads and upgrades in a quick and efficient manner via the cloud. The Burton Platform is the core of our technology suite. A platform designed to be highly scalable and built for high transaction volume, the Burton Platform brings together common components of our vertical software technologies as well as several historically disparate solutions. The Burton Platform includes an Application Programming Interface (API) suite that provides access to merchant of record processing, ACH processing and payment facilitator merchant processing capabilities. The platform APIs allow access to Europay, Mastercard and Visa (EMV) devices as well as validated P2PE certified devices using an implementation that shields software providers from the requirements of PCI / payment application data security standard (PA-DSS) certification. We own multiple horizontal software solutions, including the Burton Platform described above. In the business-to-business (B2B) market, we provide payment solutions to clients in industries that include professional services (including law firms), manufacturing, contractor services, construction, and other industries where a significant percentage of payments are received using a commercial, business, purchasing, or virtual card. Our B2B payment solutions offer clients secure processing technology to authorize and settle transactions at reasonable card rates, automate the pass-through of line item details, and enhance the automation of the accounts receivable process. Our distribution partners include card issuers and industry associations, each of whom provides a predictable source of new client leads. In addition, we provide payment processing solutions to many retail establishments using both an integrated and merchant of record account approach. For example, we have reseller arrangements, pursuant to which we re-sell integrated POS solutions that consist of both hardware and software. We provide support services to these POS clients, most of which are in the restaurant and hospitality markets, and we also cross-sell our payment processing solutions to this client base. Our solutions are positioned to support new client growth and promote client retention both within and outside our existing verticals, but most importantly to provide a stable and secure payment experience. Our Sales and Marketing Our sales strategy leverages a broad network of distribution partners, comprised of ISVs, value-added resellers (VARs), independent sales organizations (ISOs) and our referral partners which include financial institutions, trade associations, chambers of commerce and card issuers. These distribution partners are a consistent and scalable source for new client acquisition. Leveraging our vertically focused suite of products and services, we are able to maximize the performance and retention of current distribution partners while attracting new partners. These one-to-many distribution partners accelerate penetration within our vertical markets in a cost-effective manner. 8 Our sales force includes both outside and inside representatives to manage each distribution partner relationship and deliver optimal response times to new client referrals. Our product and partner marketing is delivered through a shared-services model which is coordinated with each business unit. Marketing is tightly aligned with our sales efforts by providing event coordination, demand generation resources, physical and electronic marketing campaigns and partner marketing collateral. Our enterprise marketing function establishes our overall corporate marketing strategy to enhance brand awareness and demand generation. We use a broad variety of traditional and digital marketing mediums to engage prospective clients. Our direct sales team is responsible for selling our proprietary software and payment technology solutions to clients primarily through our distribution and referral partner networks. The assigned sales team is the primary liaison for managing the partner relationship, coordinating with marketing team efforts and engaging new client referral opportunities. We utilize our direct sales team to sell our proprietary software and payment technology solutions directly to clients in our education and public sector markets. Our Operations Our operations team is uniquely structured to optimize the experience of our clients and distribution partners. These regionally distributed and vertically focused business support teams allow us to establish a level of expertise that delivers a scalable support structure and enables us to align our services with the economic goals and specific expectations of the respective business unit. Each operations team is positioned to support the functions of their respective client base and key performance indicators mark their progress toward achieving the goals established by each business unit. Our client and partner databases provide visibility into each overall client relationship, tracking the status of the relationship from initial contact through the lifecycle of that client or partner relationship. Our centralized technology department is structured to rapidly enhance and effectively maintain our products and services. Our operations team is structured to effectively support the individual needs of our clients and distribution partners. This support includes: client onboarding; client support and retention; client training and activations; billing and financial review; credit underwriting and risk management; dispute and chargeback processing; distribution partner support; and customer support. Our technical operations team oversees the execution of development, quality control, delivery and support for our payment processing applications and the hosted user applications. Applications are developed and tested according to the software development lifecycle, composed of iterative development and testing with a dedicated focus on planning and execution. Releases are modeled on continuous deployment and added to the live environment on a routine basis. Each application stack is built with redundancy to foster resiliency and built to be easily managed during a disaster recovery scenario. The entire solution is hosted within a managed, dedicated environment that is certified PCI-compliant to protect all personal and transactional data. Our Competition We compete with a variety of merchant acquirers and software vendors that have different business models, go-to-market strategies and technical capabilities. We believe the most significant competitive factors in our markets are: 1. trust, including a strong reputation for quality service and trusted distribution partners; 2. convenience, such as speed in approving applications, client onboarding and dispute resolution; 3. service, including product functionality, value-added solutions and strong customer support; and 4. economics, including fees charged to clients and residuals and incentives offered to distribution partners. 9 Our competitors range from large and well established companies to smaller, earlier-stage businesses. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and IndustryThe payment processing industry as well as the software industries in our strategic vertical markets are all highly competitive. Such competition could adversely affect the fees we receive, and as a result, our margins, business, financial condition and results of operations in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Human Capital To facilitate talent attraction and retention, we strive to make i3 Verticals a safe and healthy workplace, with opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their careers, supported by competitive compensation and benefits programs and opportunities for advancement. The success of our business is fundamentally connected to the well-being of our people. Accordingly, we provide our eligible employees with access to flexible and convenient medical programs intended to meet their needs and the needs of their families. In addition to standard medical coverage, we offer dental and vision coverage, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, flexible work schedules on a case-by-case basis, employee assistance programs, voluntary short term and long term disability insurance and term life insurance. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented changes that we determined were in the best interest of our employees, as well as the communities in which we operate, and which comply with government regulations. This included having the majority of our employees work from home for several months, while implementing additional safety measures for employees continuing critical on-site work then and now. We provide competitive compensation and benefits programs to help meet the needs of our employees. In addition to salaries, these programs (which vary across our businesses) include bonus opportunities and a 401(k) Plan. We use targeted stock option grants with vesting conditions to facilitate retention of personnel, and we are proud that a large percentage of our workforce owns i3 Verticals shares or options to purchase i3 Verticals shares. We believe this dynamic aligns important economic incentives and encourages an entrepreneurial spirit. We have built a collaborative culture that recognizes and rewards innovation and offers employees a variety of opportunities and experiences. We believe that our culture is critical to our success. We are an acquisitive company and regularly add new employees in locations across the United States as a result of our acquisition activity. Our employee headcount has significantly increased since our Initial Public Offering in June 2018, and as of November 20, 2020, we have approximately 740 employees in 38 states (which includes 140 employees that are subject to a transition services period related to a recent acquisition). We believe that our employee retention rates are competitive and we think this is a result of strong emphasis on workforce culture in our acquisition process and in our operational decision making. Government Regulation We operate in an increasingly complex legal and regulatory environment. Our business and the products and services that we offer are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations and the rules and standards of the payment networks that we utilize to provide our electronic payment services, as more fully described below. Dodd-Frank Act The 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") and the related rules and regulations have resulted in significant changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. Changes impacting the electronic payment industry include providing merchants with the ability to set minimum dollar amounts for the acceptance of credit cards and to offer discounts or incentives to entice consumers to pay with cash, checks, debit cards or credit cards, as the merchant prefers. New rules also contain certain prohibitions on payment network exclusivity and merchant routing restrictions of debit card transactions. Additionally, the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act provides that the interchange fees that certain issuers charge merchants for debit transactions will be regulated by the Federal Reserve and must be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer in authorizing, clearing and settling the transactions. Rules released by the Federal Reserve in July 2011 to implement the Durbin Amendment mandate a cap on debit transaction interchange fees for issuers with assets of $10 billion or greater. 10 The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB), which has assumed responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which has the authority to determine whether any non-bank financial company, such as us, should be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System because it is systemically important to the U.S. financial system. Any new rules or regulations implemented by the CFPB or the Financial Stability Oversight Council or in connection with the Dodd-Frank Act that are applicable to us, or any changes that are adverse to us resulting from litigation brought by third parties challenging such rules and regulations, could increase our cost of doing business or limit permissible activities. Privacy and Information Security Regulations We provide services that may be subject to privacy laws and regulations of a variety of jurisdictions. Relevant federal privacy laws include the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which applies directly to a broad range of financial institutions and indirectly, or in some instances directly, to companies that provide services to financial institutions. These laws and regulations restrict the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent the use and disclosure of certain nonpublic or otherwise legally protected information. These laws also impose requirements for safeguarding and proper destruction of personal information through the issuance of data security standards or guidelines. Our business also may be subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, which regulate the use and reporting of consumer credit information and impose disclosure requirements on entities who take adverse action based on information obtained from credit reporting agencies. In addition, there are state laws that restrict the ability to collect and utilize certain types of personal information, such as Social Security and drivers license numbers, and impose secure disposal requirements for personal data. Certain state laws mandate businesses to implement reasonable data security measures. Massachusetts requires any business that processes the personal information of a Massachusetts resident to adopt and implement a written information security program. States are increasingly legislating data protection requirements for a broader list of personal data and are strengthening protections for students' personal information. For example, Illinois regulates the collection of biometric information under its Biometric Information Privacy Act, and at least five other states have legislation pending regarding the collection of biometric data. All fifty states, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands have now enacted data breach notification laws requiring businesses that experience a security breach of their computer databases that contain personal information to notify affected individuals, consumer reporting agencies and governmental agencies. In June 2018, the State of California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (the CCPA), which went into effect on January 1, 2020. The CCPA requires companies that process personal information of California residents to make certain disclosures to consumers about data practices, grants consumers specific access rights to their data, allows consumers to opt out of certain data sharing activities and creates a private right of action for data breaches. On November 2, 2020, California voters passed Proposition 24 that enacted the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (the CPRA). The CRPA, which will come into effect on January 1, 2023, amends and expands the CCPA to create additional consumer privacy rights, such as the right of correction and right to limit the use of sensitive personal information, and establish a privacy enforcement agency known as the California Privacy Protection Agency (the CPPA). Each privacy law and regulation that applies to us could increase our cost of doing business or limit permissible activities. As an entity that provides services to educational institutions, we are indirectly subject to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and the privacy requirements of the Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment (PPRA), and we may not transfer or otherwise disclose or use any personally identifiable information from a student record to another party other than on a basis and in a manner permitted under the statutes. See Risk FactorsIf we violate the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and the Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment (PPRA), it could result in a material breach of contract with one or more of our clients in our education vertical and could harm our reputation. Further, if we disclose student information in violation of FERPA or PPRA, our access to student information could be suspended. 11 Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Regulation Our business is subject to U.S. federal anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which we refer to collectively as the BSA. The BSA, among other things, requires money services businesses to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity and maintain transaction records. We are also subject to certain economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) that prohibit or restrict transactions to or from (or transactions dealing with) specified countries, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals, such as those who might be narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations. Similar anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing and proceeds of crime laws apply to movements of currency and payments through electronic transactions and to dealings with persons specified on lists maintained by organizations similar to OFAC in several other countries and which may impose specific data retention obligations or prohibitions on intermediaries in the payment process. We have developed and continue to enhance compliance programs and policies to monitor and address related legal and regulatory requirements and developments. Unfair or Deceptive Acts or Practices We and many of our clients are subject to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices. In addition, laws prohibiting these activities and other laws, rules and or regulations, including the Telemarketing Sales Act, may directly impact the activities of certain of our clients, and in some cases may subject us, as the clients payment processor or provider of certain services, to investigations, fees, fines and disgorgement of funds if we are deemed to have aided and abetted or otherwise provided the means and instrumentalities to facilitate the illegal or improper activities of the client through our services. Various federal and state regulatory enforcement agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission and the states attorneys general, have authority to take action against non-banks that engage in unfair or deceptive acts or practices or violate other laws, rules and regulations and to the extent we are processing payments or providing services for a client that may be in violation of laws, rules and regulations, we may be subject to enforcement actions and as a result may incur losses and liabilities that may impact our business. In addition, the CFPB has recently attempted to extend certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that prevent the employment of unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices (UDAAP) to payment processors. Though there is still litigation involving whether payment processing companies are subject to these requirements (and the extent of their application), these requirements may apply or be applicable in the future. UDAAPs could involve omissions or misrepresentations of important information to consumers or practices that take advantage of vulnerable consumers, such as elderly or low-income consumers. Stored Value Services Stored value cards, store gift cards and electronic gift certificates are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations, which may include laws and regulations related to consumer and data protection, licensing, consumer disclosures, escheat, anti-money laundering, banking, trade practices and competition and wage and employment. The clients who utilize the gift card processing products and services that we may sell may be subject to these laws and regulations. In the future, if we seek to expand these stored value card products and services, or as a result of regulatory changes, we may be subject to additional regulation and may be required to obtain additional licenses and registrations which we may not be able to obtain. The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the Card Act) created new requirements applicable to general-use prepaid gift cards, store gift cards and electronic gift certificates. The Card Act, along with the Federal Reserves amended Regulation E, created new requirements with respect to these cards and electronic certificates. These include certain prohibited features and revised disclosure obligations. Prepaid services may also be subject to the rules and regulations of Visa, Mastercard, Discover and American Express and other payment networks with which our clients and the card issuers do business. The clients who utilize the gift card processing products and services that we may sell are responsible for compliance with all applicable rules and requirements relating to their gift product program. 12 Additionally, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or FinCEN, issued a final rule in July 2011 regarding the applicability of the BSAs regulations to prepaid access products and services. This rulemaking clarifies the anti-money laundering obligations for entities engaged in the provision and sale of prepaid services, such as prepaid gift cards. We are not registered with FinCEN based on our determination that our current products and services do not constitute a prepaid program as defined in the BSA and we are not a provider of prepaid access. We may in the future need to register with FinCEN as a money services business-provider of prepaid access in accordance with the rule based on changes to our products or services. Indirect Regulatory Requirements Certain of our distribution partners are financial institutions that are directly subject to various regulations and compliance obligations issued by the CFPB, the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration and other agencies responsible for regulating financial institutions, which includes state financial institution regulators. While these regulatory requirements and compliance obligations do not apply directly to us, many of these requirements materially affect the services we provide to our clients and us overall. The financial institution regulators have imposed requirements on regulated financial institutions to manage their third-party service providers. Among other things, these requirements include performing appropriate due diligence when selecting third-party service providers; evaluating the risk management, information security, and information management systems of third-party service providers; imposing contractual protections in agreements with third-party service providers (such as performance measures, audit and remediation rights, indemnification, compliance requirements, confidentiality and information security obligations, insurance requirements, and limits on liability); and conducting ongoing monitoring, diligence and audits of the performance of third-party service providers. Accommodating these requirements applicable to our clients imposes additional costs and risks in connection with our financial institution relationships. We expect to expend significant resources on an ongoing basis in an effort to assist our clients in meeting their legal requirements. Payment Network Rules and Standards Payment networks establish their own rules and standards that allocate liabilities and responsibilities among the payment networks and their participants. These rules and standards, including the PCI DSS, govern a variety of areas including how consumers and clients may use their cards, the security features of cards, security standards for processing, data security and allocation of liability for certain acts or omissions including liability in the event of a data breach. The payment networks may change these rules and standards from time to time as they may determine in their sole discretion and with or without advance notice to their participants. These changes may be made for any number of reasons, including as a result of changes in the regulatory environment, to maintain or attract new participants, or to serve the strategic initiatives of the networks and may impose additional costs and expenses on or be disadvantageous to certain participants. Participants are subject to audit by the payment networks to ensure compliance with applicable rules and standards. The networks may fine, penalize or suspend the registration of participants for certain acts or omissions or the failure of the participants to comply with applicable rules and standards. An example of a recent standard is the chip and pin or chip and signature card requirement, known as EMV, which was mandated by Visa, Mastercard, American Express and Discover to be supported by payment processors by April 2013 and by merchants by October 2015. This mandate set new requirements and technical standards, including requiring integrated point of sale systems to be capable of accepting the more secure chip cards that utilize the EMV standard and setting new rules for data handling and security. Processors and clients that do not comply with the mandate or do not use systems that are EMV compliant risk fines and liability for fraud-related losses. We have invested significant resources to ensure our systems compliance with the mandate, and to assist our clients in becoming compliant. 13 To provide our electronic payment services, we must be registered either indirectly or directly as a service provider with each of the payment networks that we utilize. Because we are not a bank, we are not eligible for primary membership in certain payment networks, including Visa and Mastercard, and are therefore unable to directly access these networks. The operating regulations of certain payment networks, including Visa and Mastercard, require us to be sponsored by a member bank as a service provider. We are registered with certain payment networks, including Visa and Mastercard, through various sponsor banks. The agreements with our bank sponsors give them substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for clients and the terms of our agreements with clients. We are also subject to network operating rules and guidelines promulgated by the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA) relating to payment transactions we process using the ACH Network. Like the card networks, NACHA may update its operating rules and guidelines at any time and we will be subject to these changes. For example, NACHA's WEB Debit Account Validation Rule, originally introduced in November 2018, will take effect March 19, 2021. This rule requires changes to ACH validation of bank accounts associated with internet WEB ACH payments. The NACHA Operating Rules and Guidelines allocate responsibility and liabilities to the various participants in the payment network, including us and our partner financial institutions. Recently, NACHA has focused upon data security and privacy responsibilities. We are subject to audit by our partner financial institutions for compliance with the rules and guidelines. Our sponsor financial institutions have substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including the terms of our agreements with our ACH processing clients. Money Transmitter Regulation We are subject to various U.S. federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations governing money transmission and the issuance and sale of payment instruments, including some of the prepaid products we may sell. In the United States, most states license money transmitters and issuers of payment instruments. These states not only regulate and control money transmitters, but they also license entities engaged in the transmission of funds. Many states exercise authority over the operations of our services related to money transmission and payment instruments and, as part of this authority, subject us to periodic examinations. Many states require, among other things, that proceeds from money transmission activity and payment instrument sales be invested in high-quality marketable securities before the settlement of the transactions or otherwise restrict the use and safekeeping of such funds. Such licensing laws also may cover matters such as regulatory approval of consumer forms, consumer disclosures and the filing of periodic reports by the licensee and require the licensee to demonstrate and maintain specified levels of net worth. Many states also require money transmitters, issuers of payment instruments, and their agents to comply with federal and/or state anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Other Regulation We are subject to U.S. federal and state unclaimed or abandoned property (escheat) laws which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others we hold that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time such as account balances that are due to a distribution partner or client following discontinuation of its relationship with us. The Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 requires certain merchant acquiring entities and third-party settlement organizations to provide information returns for each calendar year with respect to payments made in settlement of electronic payment transactions and third-party payment network transactions occurring in that calendar year. Reportable transactions are also subject to backup withholding requirements. The foregoing is not an exhaustive list of the laws and regulations to which we are subject and the regulatory framework governing our business is changing continuously. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and Industry in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Intellectual Property Certain of our products and services are based on proprietary software and related payment systems solutions. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as employee and third-party non-disclosure, confidentiality, and contractual arrangements to establish, maintain, and enforce our intellectual property rights in our technology, including with respect to our proprietary rights related to our products and services. In addition, we license technology from third parties that is integrated into some of our solutions. 14 We own a number of registered federal service marks, including i3 Verticals, PaySchools and Axia. We also own a number of domain names, including www.i3verticals.com. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and file or furnish reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We also maintain a website at www.i3verticals.com, through which you may access these materials free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Information contained on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the inclusion of our website address in this report is an inactive textual reference only. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks and uncertainties. If any of the following risks are realized, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The following risk factors, some of which contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements, should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The COVID-19 pandemic is significantly affecting our operations, business and financial condition, and our liquidity could also be negatively impacted, particularly if the U.S. economy remains unstable for a significant amount of time. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 as a pandemic, which continues to spread throughout the United States and other parts of the world. The spread of COVID-19 has caused several states and cities to declare states of emergency or disaster proclamations. State and local governments, together with public health officials, have recommended and mandated precautions to mitigate the spread of the virus, including the closure of local government facilities and parks, schools, restaurants, many businesses and other locations of public assembly. Although many of the restrictions have eased across the country, the pandemic has yet to show substantial signs of decline in the U.S. Some areas are re-imposing closures and other restrictions due to increased rates of COVID-19 cases. The economic impact of these conditions is materially impacting our business and is expected to continue to adversely impact its strategic verticals and our business in general. For example, we and our clients have experienced a decline and subsequent partial recovery in payment volume and the number of transactions processed, and therefore, a decline and subsequent partial recovery in revenue in our strategic verticals. There are no reliable estimates of how long the pandemic will last, how many people are likely to be affected by it or the duration or types of restrictions that will be imposed. While the COVID-19 pandemic is having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, the extent of such impact will depend on future developments, which cannot be accurately predicted at this time. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in and may continue to result in lower results of operations due to a number of operational factors, including: the temporary closures, re-closures and failures of our customers; continued unemployment, which has and may continue to negatively influence consumer spending; third-party disruptions, including potential outages at network providers, call centers and other suppliers; increased cyber and payment fraud risk related to the COVID-19 pandemic, as cybercriminals attempt to profit from the disruption, given increased online banking, e-commerce and other online activity; and 15 challenges to the availability and reliability of our solutions and services due to changes to operations, including the possibility of COVID-19 cases occurring at our locations, affecting our employees or affecting the systems or employees of our clients or other third parties on which we depend. Since the outbreak, the market price per share of our common stock has been volatile. If general economic conditions were to deteriorate or remain uncertain for an extended period of time, our liquidity and ability to repay our outstanding debt may be harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline. If the stock price were to decrease significantly, it may cause a triggering event for impairment testing of fair-valued assets, including goodwill and intangible assets. Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic has previously caused disruption in the financial markets and the businesses of financial institutions and may do so again, potentially causing a slowdown in the decision-making of these institutions. This may affect the timing on which we may obtain any additional funding and there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional funds, in the form of debt or equity, or to amend our Senior Secured Credit Facility on terms acceptable to us, if at all, even if we determined such actions were necessary in the future. In response to the economic and market conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, governments and regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve, have acted and may take further action to provide fiscal and monetary stimuli to support the economy. However, there can be no assurance that these measures will stimulate the economy or avert continued recessionary conditions in markets or economies in which we conduct operations. The foregoing and other continued disruptions to our business as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic could result in a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations, financial condition, cash flows and our ability to service our indebtedness. Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic could heighten the risks in certain of the other risk factors described herein. We have a history of operating losses and will need to generate significant revenues to attain and maintain profitability and positive cash flow and continue our acquisition program. Since inception in 2012, we have been engaged in growth activities and have made a significant number of acquisitions that grew our business. This acquisition activity requires substantial capital and other expenditures. As a result, 2017 was the first fiscal year for which we attained profitability, and we incurred net losses attributable to i3 Verticals, Inc. in the years ended September 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, and we may incur losses again in the future. A substantial portion of our historical revenue growth has resulted from acquisitions. For the year ended September 30, 2020, revenues attributable to the acquisitions we completed in 2019 and 2020 were $50.6 million, or 33.7% of our total revenues. We expect our cash needs to increase significantly for the next several years as we: make additional acquisitions; market our products and services; expand our client support and service operations; hire additional marketing, client support and administrative personnel; and implement new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. As a result of these continuing costs and expenses, we need to generate significant revenues to attain and maintain profitability and positive cash flow. To date, our operations have been supported by equity and debt financings. If we do not continue to increase our revenues, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The payment processing industry is highly competitive. Such competition could adversely affect the fees we receive, and as a result, our margins, business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for payment processing services is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. Other providers of payment processing services have established a sizable market share in the merchant acquiring sector and service more clients than we do. Our growth will depend, in part, on a combination of the continued growth of the electronic payment market and our ability to increase our market share. 16 Our payment and software solutions compete against many forms of financial services and payment systems, including electronic, mobile and integrated payment platforms as well as cash and checks. Our competitors include traditional merchant acquirers such as financial institutions, affiliates of financial institutions and well-established payment processing companies that target our existing clients and potential clients directly, including Bank of America Merchant Services, Chase Paymentech, Elavon, Inc. (a subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp), Fiserv, Inc., Global Payments, Inc. and Fidelity National Information. In addition, we compete with vendors that are specifically targeting ISVs and VARs as distribution partners for their merchant acquiring services, such as Stripe, Inc., Square, Inc., Toast, Inc., PayPal Holdings, Inc., Braintree (owned by PayPal), Adyen, Ltd., and OpenEdge (a division of Global Payments). Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, management and marketing resources than we have. Accordingly, if these competitors specifically target our business model, they may be able to offer more attractive fees or payment terms and advances to our clients and more attractive compensation to our distribution partners. They also may be able to offer and provide products and services that we do not offer. There are also a large number of small providers of processing services that provide various ranges of services to our clients and our potential clients. This competition may effectively limit the prices we can charge and requires us to control costs aggressively in order to maintain acceptable profit margins. Further, if the use of payment cards other than Visa or Mastercard grows, or if there is increased use of certain debit cards, our average profit per transaction could be reduced. Competition could also result in a loss of existing distribution partners and clients and greater difficulty attracting new distribution partners and clients. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are also subject to risks as a result of changes in business habits of our vendors and customers as they adjust to the competitive marketplace. Because our standing arrangements and agreements with our vendors and customers typically contain no purchase or sale obligations and are terminable by either party upon no or relatively short notice, we are subject to significant risks associated with the loss or change at any time in the business habits and financial condition of key vendors as they adapt to changes in the market. For example, NCR Corporation has shifted its business model to a software and services led enterprise provider, along with providing cloud and mobile solutions. This change is adversely impacting the timing of receipt of revenue from such arrangements as a result of a shift in our fees from revenues from sales of the Companys combined hardware and software to revenues from a SaaS model. 17 To acquire and retain clients, we depend in part on distribution partners that generally do not serve us exclusively, may not aggressively market our products and services, are subject to attrition and are not under our control. We rely heavily on the efforts of our distribution partners to market our products and services to existing clients and potential clients. Generally, our agreements with distribution partners are not exclusive and these partners retain the right to refer potential clients to other merchant acquirers. Gaining and maintaining loyalty or exclusivity may require financial concessions to maintain current distribution partners or to attract potential distribution partners from our competitors who may be offering significantly more enticing pricing terms, such as increased signing bonuses or residuals payable to our referral partners, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. If these distribution partners switch to another merchant acquirer, focus more heavily on promoting the products and services of one or more other merchant acquirers, cease operations or become insolvent, we may no longer receive new referrals from them or may receive fewer new referrals from them, and we also risk losing existing clients with whom the distribution partner has a relationship. Additionally, some of our distribution partners are subject to the requirements imposed by our bank sponsors, which may result in fines to them for non-compliance and may, in some cases, result in these entities ceasing to market our products and services. If we are unable to maintain our existing base of distribution partners or develop relationships with new distribution partners, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Further, we may be named in legal proceedings in connection with the actions of our distribution partners where it is alleged that our distribution partners have intentionally or negligently misrepresented pricing or other contractual terms to clients or potential clients related to our processing solutions or related products. Our distribution partners are independent businesses and we have no control over their day-to-day business activities, including their client marketing and solicitation practices. While in some cases we may have indemnification rights against our distribution partners for these activities, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully enforce those indemnification rights or that our distribution partners are adequately capitalized in a manner necessary to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us. If one or more judgments or settlements in any litigation or other investigation, plus related defense and investigation costs, significantly exceed our insurance coverage and we are unable to enforce our indemnification rights against a distribution partner or partners, our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer. If we cannot keep pace with rapid developments and changes in our industry, the use of our products and services could decline, causing a reduction in our revenues. The electronic payments market is subject to constant and significant changes. This market is characterized by rapid technological evolution, new product and service introductions, evolving industry standards, changing client needs and the entrance of non-traditional competitors, including products and services that enable card networks and banks to transact with consumers directly. To remain competitive, we continually pursue initiatives to develop new products and services to compete with these new market entrants. These projects carry risks, such as cost overruns, delays in delivery, performance problems and lack of client acceptance. In addition, new products and offerings may not perform as intended or generate the business or revenue growth expected. Additionally, we look for acquisition opportunities, investments and alliance relationships with other businesses that will increase our market penetration and enhance our technological capabilities, product offerings and distribution capabilities. Any delay in the delivery of new products and services or the failure to differentiate our products and services or to accurately predict and address market demand could render our products and services less desirable, or even obsolete, to our clients and to our distribution partners. Furthermore, even though the market for integrated payment processing products and services is evolving, it may develop too rapidly or not rapidly enough for us to recover the costs we have incurred in developing new products and services targeted at this market. Any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 18 The continued growth and development of our payment processing activities will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer behavior. For example, consumer behavior may change regarding the use of payment card transactions, including the relative increased use of cash, crypto-currencies, other emerging or alternative payment methods and payment card systems that we or our processing partners do not adequately support or that do not provide adequate commissions to parties like us. Any failure to timely integrate emerging payment methods into our software, to anticipate consumer behavior changes or to contract with processing partners that support such emerging payment technologies could cause us to lose traction among our customers or referral sources, resulting in a corresponding loss of revenue, if those methods become popular among end-users of their services. The products and services we deliver are designed to process complex transactions and provide reports and other information on those transactions, all at very high volumes and processing speeds. Our technology offerings must also integrate with a variety of network, hardware, mobile and software platforms and technologies, and we need to continuously modify and enhance our products and services to adapt to changes and innovation in these technologies. Any failure to deliver an effective, reliable and secure service or any performance issue that arises with a new product or service could result in significant processing or reporting errors or other losses. If we do not deliver a promised new product or service to our clients or distribution partners in a timely manner or the product or service does not perform as anticipated, our development efforts could result in increased costs and a loss in business that could reduce our earnings and cause a loss of revenue. We also rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies, including software and hardware. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to develop, adapt to or access technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Unauthorized disclosure, destruction or modification of data or disruption of our services could expose us to liability, protracted and costly litigation and damage our reputation. We are responsible both for our own business and to a significant degree for acts and omissions by certain of our distribution partners and third-party vendors under the rules and regulations established by the payment networks, such as Visa and Mastercard, Discover and American Express, and the debit networks. We and other third parties collect, process, store and transmit sensitive data, such as names, addresses, social security numbers, credit or debit card numbers and expiration dates, drivers license numbers and bank account numbers, and we have ultimate liability to the payment networks and member financial institutions that register us with the payment networks for our failure, or the failure of certain distribution partners and third parties with whom we contract, to protect this data in accordance with payment network requirements. The loss, destruction or unauthorized modification of client or cardholder data could result in significant fines, sanctions and proceedings or actions against us by the payment networks, governmental bodies, consumers or others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any such sanction, fine, proceeding or action could damage our reputation, force us to incur significant expenses in defense of these proceedings, disrupt our operations, distract our management, increase our costs of doing business and may result in the imposition of monetary liability. 19 We could be subject to breaches of security by hackers. Although we proactively employ multiple measures to defend our systems against intrusions and attacks and to protect the data we collect, our measures may not prevent unauthorized access or use of sensitive data. Recently, several municipalities have been the victims of cyberattacks, and in some cases, ransomware, through which an attacker gains access to the organizations computer files, renders them temporarily inaccessible and threatens to permanently delete them if a cash ransom is not paid by a specified deadline. While we or, to our knowledge, our distribution partners, third-party vendors or clients have not been subject to a material ransomware or cyber-extortion attack impacting us, if such an event were to occur it could significantly disrupt our operations, expose us to liability under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), adversely impact our reputation or subject us to material losses or liability. We may be required to expend significant additional resources in our efforts to modify or enhance our protective measures against evolving threats. A breach of our system or a third-party system upon which we rely may subject us to material losses or liability, including payment network fines, assessments and claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated credit, debit or card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. A misuse of such data or a cybersecurity breach could harm our reputation and deter our clients and potential clients from using electronic payments generally and our products and services specifically, thus reducing our revenue. In addition, any such misuse or breach could cause us to incur costs to correct the breaches or failures, expose us to uninsured liability, expose us to liability under HIPAA, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, subject us to lawsuits and result in the imposition of material penalties and fines under state and federal laws or by the payment networks. While we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. A significant cybersecurity breach could also result in payment networks prohibiting us from processing transactions on their networks or the loss of our financial institution sponsorship that facilitates our participation in the payment networks, either of which could materially impede our ability to conduct business. Although we generally require that our agreements with our distribution partners and service providers who have access to client and customer data include confidentiality obligations that restrict these parties from using or disclosing any client or customer data except as necessary to perform their services under the applicable agreements, there can be no assurance that these contractual measures will prevent the unauthorized disclosure of business or client data, nor can we be sure that such third parties would be willing or able to satisfy liabilities arising from their breach of these agreements. Any failure by such third parties to adequately take these protective measures could result in protracted or costly litigation. In addition, our agreements with our bank sponsors (as well as payment network requirements) require us to take certain protective measures to ensure the confidentiality of business and consumer data. Any failure to adequately comply with these protective measures could result in fees, penalties, litigation or termination of our bank sponsor agreements. Any significant unauthorized disclosure of sensitive data entrusted to us would cause significant damage to our reputation, impair our ability to attract new integrated technology and distribution partners and may cause parties with whom we already have such agreements to terminate them. 20 If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa and Mastercard payment networks, those payment networks could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations through our bank sponsors. We do not directly access the payment card networks, such as Visa and Mastercard, that enable our acceptance of credit cards and debit cards, including some types of prepaid cards. Accordingly, we must rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions and must pay fees for the services. To provide our merchant acquiring services, we are registered through our bank sponsors with the Visa and Mastercard networks as service providers for member institutions. The majority of our $14.4 billion in payment volume in fiscal year 2020 was attributable to transactions processed on the Visa and Mastercard networks. As such, we, our bank sponsors and many of our clients are subject to complex and evolving payment network rules. The payment networks routinely update and modify requirements applicable to merchant acquirers, including rules regulating data integrity, third-party relationships (such as those with respect to bank sponsors and ISOs), merchant chargeback standards and PCI DSS. The rules of the card networks are set by their boards, which may be influenced by card issuers, some of which offer competing transaction processing services. The request for comments for PCI DSS 4.0 closed in November 2019 and the PCI council plans to release version 4.0 by the middle of 2021. Anticipated changes to PCI DSS 4.0 include stronger standards that will increase the compliance burden on processors and require additional training, education and support tools for processors to support their merchants. If we or our bank sponsors fail to comply with the applicable rules and requirements of the Visa or Mastercard payment networks, Visa or Mastercard could suspend or terminate our member registration or certification, which would make it impossible for us to conduct our business on its current scale. Further, our transaction processing capabilities, including with respect to settlement processes, could be delayed or otherwise disrupted, and recurring non-compliance could result in the payment networks seeking to fine us. In addition, card networks and their member financial institutions regularly update, and generally expand, security expectations and requirements related to the security of cardholder data and environment. Under certain circumstances, we are required to report incidents to the card networks within a specified time frame. We may also be subject to penalties from the payment card networks if we fail to detect that our clients are engaging in activities that are illegal, contrary to the payment card network operating rules, or considered high-risk. We must either prevent high-risk merchants from using our products and services or register such merchants with the payment card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. Such penalties could be material and could result in termination of registration or could require changes in our process for registering new clients. This could materially and adversely affect our business. Under certain circumstances specified in the payment network rules, we may be required to submit to periodic audits, self-assessments or other assessments of our compliance with the PCI DSS. Such activities may reveal that we have failed to comply with the PCI DSS. In addition, even if we comply with the PCI DSS, there is no assurance that we will be protected from a security breach. The termination of our registration with the payment networks, or any changes in payment network or issuer rules that limit our ability to provide merchant acquiring services, could have an adverse effect on our payment processing volumes, revenues and operating costs. If we are unable to comply with the requirements applicable to our settlement activities, the payment networks may no longer allow us to provide these services, which would require us to spend additional resources to obtain settlement services from a third-party provider. In addition, if we were precluded from processing Visa and Mastercard electronic payments, we would lose substantially all of our revenues. We are also subject to the operating rules of NACHA, a self-regulatory organization which administers and facilitates private-sector operating rules for ACH payments and defines the roles and responsibilities of financial institutions and other ACH network participants. The NACHA Rules and Operating Guidelines impose obligations on us and our partner financial institutions. These obligations include audit and oversight by the financial institutions and the imposition of mandatory corrective action, including termination, for serious violations. If an audit or self-assessment under PCI DSS or NACHA identifies any deficiencies that we need to remediate, the remediation efforts may distract our management team and be expensive and time consuming. 21 If our bank sponsorships are terminated and we are not able to secure or successfully migrate client portfolios to new bank sponsors, we will not be able to conduct our business. If the banks that sponsor us with the Visa and Mastercard networks stop sponsoring us, we would need to find other financial institutions to provide those services, which could be difficult and expensive. If we were unable to find a replacement financial institution to provide sponsorship, we could no longer provide processing services to affected clients, which would negatively impact our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, some agreements with our bank sponsors give them substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for clients and the terms of our agreements with clients. Our bank sponsors discretionary actions under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have faced, and may in the future face, significant chargeback liability if our clients refuse or cannot reimburse chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers, and we may not accurately anticipate these liabilities. We have potential liability for chargebacks associated with our clients processing transactions. In most circumstances, if a billing dispute between a client and a cardholder is not ultimately resolved in favor of our client, the disputed transaction is charged back to the clients bank and credited to the account of the cardholder. Anytime our client is unable to satisfy a chargeback, we are responsible for that chargeback. If we are unable to collect the chargeback from the clients account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the client refuses or is financially unable due to bankruptcy or other reasons to reimburse us for the chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholders bank. We incurred chargeback losses of $0.1 million, or less than 0.1% of revenues, in our 2020 fiscal year and $0.1 million, or less than 0.1% of revenues, in our 2019 fiscal year. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are potentially liable for losses caused by fraudulent card transactions. Card fraud occurs when a clients customer uses a stolen or counterfeit credit, debit or prepaid card, card number or other credentials to purchase merchandise or services. In a traditional card-present transaction, if the client swipes the card, receives authorization for the transaction from the card issuing bank and verifies the signature on the back of the card against the paper receipt signed by the customer, the card issuing bank remains liable for any loss. In a fraudulent card-not-present transaction, even if the client receives authorization for the transaction, the client is liable for any loss arising from the transaction. Many of the SMB clients that we serve are small and transact a substantial percentage of their sales over the Internet or in response to telephone or mail orders. Because their sales are card-not-present transactions, these clients are more vulnerable to customer fraud than larger clients. Because we target these SMB clients, we experience chargebacks arising from cardholder fraud more frequently than providers of payment processing services that service larger businesses and organizations. Business fraud occurs when a business or organization, rather than a cardholder, knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit card or card number to record a false sales transaction, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Business fraud also occurs when employees of businesses change the business demand deposit accounts to their personal bank account numbers, so that payments are improperly credited to the employees personal account. We have established systems and procedures to detect and reduce the impact of business fraud, but there can be no assurance that these measures are or will be effective. Incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase our chargeback liability and other liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New Visa rules associated with chargeback monitoring that were originally announced October 1, 2019 are due to become effective in April 2021. The new Visa rules will tighten monitoring and control of risks to combat the high rates of fraud and disputes. The planned changes will impact when merchants are enrolled in the Visa Fraud Monitoring Program (the VFMP) and the Visa Chargeback Monitoring Program (the VCMP). The VFMP and the VCMP target merchants with higher levels of chargebacks and fraud. Visa's new rules could have serious implications for the types of businesses that we can support, and high-risk merchants will be impacted by the changes. 22 On occasion, we experience increases in interchange and sponsorship fees; if we cannot pass these increases along to our clients, our profit margins will be reduced. We pay interchange fees or assessments to issuing banks through the card associations for each transaction that is processed using their credit and debit cards. From time to time, the card associations increase the interchange fees that they charge processors and the sponsoring banks. At their sole discretion, our sponsoring banks have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees on to us. In addition, our sponsoring banks may seek to increase their sponsorship fees charged to us, all of which are based upon the dollar amount of the payment transactions we process. If we are not able to pass these fee increases along to clients through corresponding increases in our processing fees, our profit margins will be reduced. Our systems and our third-party providers systems may fail, or our third-party providers may discontinue providing their services or technology generally or to us specifically, which in either case could interrupt our business, cause us to lose business and increase our costs. We rely on third parties for specific services, software and hardware used in providing our products and services. Some of these organizations and service providers are our competitors or provide similar services and technology to our competitors, and we may not have long-term contracts with them. If these contracts are canceled or we are unable to renew them on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely impacted. The termination by our service or technology providers of their arrangements with us or their failure to perform their services efficiently and effectively may adversely affect our relationships with our clients and, if we cannot find alternate providers quickly, may cause those clients to terminate their processing agreements with us. We also rely in part on third parties for the development and access to new technologies, or for updates to existing products and services for which they provide ongoing support. Failure by these third-party providers to devote an appropriate level of attention to our products and services could result in delays in introducing new products or services, or delays in resolving any issues with existing products or services for which third-party providers provide ongoing support. Our systems and operations or those of our third-party technology vendors could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, computer viruses, denial-of-service attacks, acts of terrorism, human error, vandalism or sabotage, financial insolvency and similar events. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Likewise, while we have disaster recovery policies and arrangements in place, they have not been tested under actual disasters or similar events. Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions, telecommunications failures or other difficulties could result in: loss of revenues; loss of clients; loss of client and cardholder data; fines imposed by payment networks or regulators; harm to our business or reputation resulting from negative publicity; exposure to fraud losses or other liabilities; additional operating and development costs; or diversion of management, technical and other resources, among other consequences. 23 We are subject to economic and political risk, the business cycles of our clients and distribution partners and changes in the overall level of consumer and commercial spending, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The electronic payment industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer and commercial spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income and changes in consumer purchasing habits. A sustained deterioration in general economic conditions, particularly in the United States, continued uncertainty for an extended period of time, due to the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, or increases in interest rates, could adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or aggregate volume of transactions made using electronic payments. A reduction in the amount of consumer or commercial spending could result in a decrease in our revenue and profits. If our clients make fewer purchases or sales of products and services using electronic payments, or consumers spend less money through electronic payments, we will have fewer transactions to process at lower dollar amounts, resulting in lower revenue. Additionally, credit card issuers may reduce credit limits and become more selective in their card issuance practices. Any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. A weakening in the economy as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic has had a negative impact on our clients, particularly within our Education vertical because of widespread school closures and government subsidized lunches, and could continue to do so, as well as their customers who purchase products and services using the payment processing systems to which we provide access, which has and could continue to, in turn, negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the weakening as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic has forced SMBs to close at higher than historical rates, and any future weakening in the economy could further this trend, in part because many of them are not as well capitalized as larger organizations, which has exposed, and could expose us in the future, to potential credit losses and future transaction declines. Further, credit card issuers may reduce credit limits and become more selective in their card issuance practices. We also have a certain amount of fixed and semi-fixed costs, including rent, debt service and salaries, which could limit our ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in our business and the economy. A decline in the use of cards and ACH as payment mechanisms for consumers and businesses or adverse developments in the electronic payment industry in general could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If consumers and businesses do not continue to use cards or ACH as payment mechanisms for their transactions or if the mix of payments among the types of cards and ACH changes in a way that is adverse to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory changes may also result in our clients seeking to charge their customers additional fees for use of credit or debit cards. Additionally, in recent years, increased incidents of security breaches have caused some consumers to lose confidence in the ability of businesses to protect their information, causing certain consumers to discontinue use of electronic payment methods. Security breaches could result in financial institutions canceling large numbers of credit and debit cards, or consumers or businesses electing to cancel their cards following such an incident. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategy of growth through acquisitions. Our future growth and profitability depend, in part, upon our continued expansion within the vertical markets in which we currently operate, the emergence of other vertical markets for electronic payments and our integrated solutions, and our ability to penetrate new vertical markets and our current distribution partners customer base. As part of our strategy to expand into new vertical markets, we look for acquisition opportunities and partnerships with other businesses that will allow us to increase our market penetration, technological capabilities, product offerings and distribution capabilities. Although we expect to continue to execute our acquisition strategy: 24 we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or acquire additional assets on favorable terms; we may compete with others to acquire assets, which competition may increase, and any level of competition could result in decreased availability or increased prices for acquisition candidates; we may compete with others for select acquisitions and our competition may consist of larger, better-funded organizations with more resources and easier access to capital; we may experience difficulty in anticipating the timing and availability of acquisition candidates; we may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions; and we may not be able to generate cash necessary to execute our acquisition strategy. The occurrence of any of these factors could adversely affect our growth strategy. Our expansion into new vertical markets also depends upon our ability to adapt our existing technology or to develop new technologies to meet the particular needs of each new vertical market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure services or distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these new vertical markets. Penetrating these new vertical markets may also prove to be more challenging or costly or take longer than we may anticipate. If we fail to expand into new vertical markets and increase our penetration into existing vertical markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings. Revenues and profits generated via acquisition may be less than anticipated, the integration process could experience delays or difficulties, and we may fail to uncover all liabilities of acquisition targets through the due diligence process prior to an acquisition, resulting in unanticipated costs, losses or a decline in profits, as well as potential impairment charges. In evaluating and determining the purchase price for a prospective acquisition, we estimate the future revenues and profits from that acquisition based largely on historical financial performance. Following an acquisition, we may experience some attrition in the number of clients serviced by an acquired provider of payment processing services or included in an acquired portfolio of merchant accounts. Should the rate of post-acquisition client attrition exceed the rate we forecasted, the revenues and profits from the acquisition may be less than we estimated, which could result in losses or a decline in profits, as well as potential impairment charges. We perform a due diligence review of each of our acquisition partners. This due diligence review, however, may not adequately uncover all of the contingent or undisclosed liabilities we may incur as a consequence of the proposed acquisition, exposing us to potentially significant, unanticipated costs, as well as potential impairment charges. An acquisition may also subject us to additional regulatory burdens that affect our business in potentially unanticipated and significantly negative ways. The acquisition of a provider of payment processing services, as well as a portfolio of merchant accounts, requires the transfer of various data processing functions and connecting links to our systems and those of our third-party service providers. If the transfer of these functions and links does not occur rapidly and smoothly, payment processing delays and errors may occur, resulting in a loss of revenues, increased client attrition and increased expenditures to correct the transitional problems, which could preclude our attainment of, or reduce, our anticipated revenue and profits. In connection with some acquisitions, we may incur non-recurring severance expenses, restructuring charges or change of control payments. These expenses, charges or payments, as well as the initial costs of integrating the personnel and facilities of an acquired business with those of our existing operations, may adversely affect our operating results during the initial financial periods following an acquisition. In addition, the integration of newly acquired companies may lead to diversion of management attention from other ongoing business concerns. 25 Changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or becoming subject to additional U.S., state or local taxes that cannot be passed through to our clients, could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding, and ad valorem taxes. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could increase our tax burden and decrease the amount of revenues we receive, the value of any tax loss carryforwards and tax credits recorded on our balance sheet and the amount of our cash flow, and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authority which could increase our tax liabilities. Furthermore, companies in the payment processing industry, including us, may become subject to incremental taxation in various tax jurisdictions. Taxing jurisdictions have not yet adopted uniform positions on this topic. If we are required to pay additional taxes and are unable to pass the tax expense through to our clients, our costs would increase and our net income would be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our clients are SMBs, which can be more difficult and costly to retain than larger enterprises and may increase the effect of economic fluctuations on us. Many of our clients are SMBs. To continue to grow our revenue, we must add new SMB clients, sell additional products and services to existing SMB clients and encourage existing SMB clients to continue doing business with us. However, retaining SMB clients can be more difficult than retaining large enterprises because SMBs often have higher rates of business failures and more limited resources and are typically less able to make technology-related decisions based on factors other than price. SMBs are typically more susceptible to the adverse effects of economic fluctuations. Adverse changes in the economic environment or business failures of our SMB clients may have a greater impact on us than on our competitors who do not focus on SMBs to the extent that we do. As a result, we may need to onboard new clients at an accelerated rate or decrease our expenses to reduce negative impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property. Our intellectual property is critical to our future success, particularly in our strategic verticals where we may offer proprietary software solutions to our clients. We rely on a combination of contractual license rights and copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, circumvent, infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our third-party licensors, or such intellectual property may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain service offerings or other competitive harm. Others, including our competitors, may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products and services, design around or reverse engineer our intellectual property, and in such cases neither we nor our third-party licensors may be able to assert intellectual property rights against such parties. Further, our contractual license arrangements may be subject to termination or renegotiation with unfavorable terms to us, and our third-party licensors may be subject to bankruptcy, insolvency and other adverse business dynamics, any of which might affect our ability to use and exploit the products licensed to us by these third-party licensors. We may have to litigate to enforce or determine the scope and enforceability of our intellectual property rights (including litigation against our third-party licensors), which is expensive, could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to obtain third-party intellectual property could harm our business and ability to compete. 26 We may be subject to infringement claims. We may be subject to costly litigation if our products or services are alleged to infringe upon or otherwise violate a third partys proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products and services. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products and services. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for patent infringement, breach of copyright, trademark, license usage or other intellectual property rights. Any claim from third parties may result in a limitation on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have been purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies like ours. Even if we believe that intellectual property related claims are without merit, defending against such claims is time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products or services, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards for which we may not have insurance, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products or services. Even if we have an agreement for indemnification against such costs, the indemnifying party, if any in such circumstances, may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be materially and adversely affected. Some of our solutions contain "open-source" software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of applicable open-source licenses could negatively affect our business. We use certain software licensed under open-source licenses and may continue to use such software in the future. Some open-source licenses require us to make available source code for modifications or derivative works that we create based upon the open-source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works pursuant to a particular open source license or other license allowing further use by third parties. Some open-source licenses could require us to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with the open-source software subject to that license. Additionally, the terms of many open-source licenses have not been interpreted by United States or other courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. Using open-source software can also be riskier than using software subject to a more restrictive license because open-source licenses generally do not contain such protections as warranties. Many of the risks associated with using open-source software cannot be eliminated and using such software could adversely affect us. If we lose key personnel, or if their reputations are damaged, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, and proprietary information of our company could be shared with our competitors. We depend on the ability and experience of a number of our key personnel, particularly Messrs. Daily, Whitson, Stanford and Bertke, who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing payment processing industry and the vertical markets in which we offer our products and services. Many of our key personnel have worked for us for a significant amount of time or were recruited by us specifically due to their experience. Our success depends in part upon the reputation and influence within the industry of our senior managers who have, over the years, developed long standing and favorable relationships with our vendors, card associations, bank sponsors and other payment processing and service providers. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or a combination of our senior executives or key managers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, contractual obligations related to confidentiality and assignment of intellectual property rights may be ineffective or unenforceable, and departing employees may share our proprietary information with competitors in ways that could adversely impact us. 27 In a dynamic industry like ours, our success and growth depend on our ability to attract, recruit, retain and develop qualified employees. Our business functions at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic and regulatory developments that require a wide-ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. For us to continue to successfully compete and grow, we must attract, recruit, develop and retain the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of our intellectual capital needs. While we have a number of key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, we must also develop our personnel to provide succession plans capable of maintaining continuity in the midst of the inevitable unpredictability of human capital. The market for qualified personnel is competitive, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. Our effort to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability. We can make no assurances that qualified employees will continue to be employed or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results and operating metrics are subject to seasonality and volatility, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results or in perceptions of our business prospects. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues as a result of consumer spending patterns. Historically our revenues have been strongest in our first, third and fourth fiscal quarters and weakest in our second fiscal quarter. This is due to the increase in the number and amount of electronic payment transactions related to seasonal retail events, such as holiday and vacation spending. The number of business days in a month or quarter also may affect seasonal fluctuations. We also experience volatility in certain other metrics, such as clients, transactions and dollar volume. Volatility in our key operating metrics or their rates of growth could have a negative impact on our financial results and investor perceptions of our business prospects. Furthermore, we are not able to predict the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic may have on the seasonality of our business. We are a decentralized company, which presents certain risks, including the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting a key business unit than we would in a more centralized environment, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a decentralized company. While we believe this structure has catalyzed our growth and enabled us to remain responsive to opportunities and to our clients needs, it necessarily places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. This presents various risks, including the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting a key business unit than we would in a more centralized environment. In addition, it means that we may be slower to detect compliance related problems and that company-wide business initiatives, such as the integration of disparate information technology systems, are often more challenging and costly to implement, and their risk of failure higher, than they would be in a more centralized environment. Depending on the nature of the problem or initiative in question, such failure could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 28 We are the subject of various claims and legal proceedings and may become the subject of claims, litigation or investigations which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of various claims and legal proceedings and may become the subject of claims, litigation or investigations, including commercial disputes and employee claims, such as claims of age discrimination, sexual harassment, gender discrimination, immigration violations or other local, state and federal labor law violations, and from time to time may be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations or similar matters arising out of our current or future business. Any claims asserted against us or our management, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, could harm our reputation or the reputation of our management and have an adverse impact on our relationship with our clients, distribution partners and other third parties and could lead to additional related claims. In light of the potential cost and uncertainty involved in litigation, we have in the past and may in the future settle matters even when we believe we have a meritorious defense. Certain claims may seek injunctive relief, which could disrupt the ordinary conduct of our business and operations or increase our cost of doing business. Our insurance or indemnities may not fully cover all claims that may be asserted against us. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in pending or future litigation or similar matters under various laws. Any judgments or settlements in any pending litigation or future claims, litigation or investigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Regulation We are subject to extensive government regulation, and any new laws and regulations, industry standards or revisions made to existing laws, regulations or industry standards affecting the electronic payments industry, or our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations, may have an unfavorable impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations that affect the electronic payments industry. Regulation of our industry has increased significantly in recent years and is constantly evolving. Changes to statutes, regulations or industry standards, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or standards, could increase our cost of doing business or affect the competitive balance. We are also subject to U.S. financial services regulations, numerous consumer protection laws, escheat regulations and privacy and information security regulations, among other laws, rules and regulations. Failure to comply with regulations may have an adverse effect on our business, including the limitation, suspension or termination of services provided to, or by, third parties, and the imposition of penalties or fines. To the extent these regulations negatively impact the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. We could be required to invest a significant amount of time and resources to comply with additional regulations or oversight or to modify the manner in which we contract with or provide products and services to our clients; and those regulations could directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services. We may not be able to update our existing products and services, or develop new ones, to satisfy our clients needs. Any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These and other laws and regulations, even if not directed at us, may require us to make significant efforts to change our products and services and may require that we incur additional compliance costs and change how we price our products and services to our clients and distribution partners. Implementing new compliance efforts is difficult because of the complexity of new regulatory requirements, and we are devoting and will continue to devote significant resources to ensure compliance. Furthermore, regulatory actions may cause changes in business practices by us and other industry participants which could affect how we market, price and distribute our products and services, and which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even an inadvertent failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage our business or our reputation. 29 Compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and other federal and state regulations may increase our compliance costs, limit our revenues and otherwise negatively affect our business. Since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, there have been substantial reforms to the supervision and operation of the financial services industry, including numerous new regulations that have imposed compliance costs and, in some cases, limited revenue sources for us and our financial institution partners and clients. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which is empowered to conduct rule-making and supervision related to, and enforcement of, federal consumer financial protection laws. The CFPB has issued guidance that applies to supervised service providers, which the CFPB has defined to include service providers, like us, to CFPB supervised banks and nonbanks. In addition, federal and state agencies have recently proposed or enacted cybersecurity regulations, such as the Cybersecurity Requirements for Financial Services Companies issued by the New York State Department of Financial Services and the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on Enhanced Cyber Risk Management Standards issued by The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in October 2016. Such cybersecurity regulations are applicable to large bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, as well as to service providers to those organizations. Any new rules and regulations implemented by the CFPB, state or other authorities or in connection with the Dodd-Frank Act could, among other things, slow our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry, require us to make significant additional investments to comply with them, redirect time and resources to compliance obligations, modify our products or services or the manner in which they are provided, or limit or change the amount or types of revenue we are able to generate. Interchange fees, which the payment processor typically pays to the card issuer in connection with credit and debit card transactions, are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act regulates and limits debit card fees charged by certain card issuers and allows businesses and organizations to set minimum dollar amounts for the acceptance of credit cards. Specifically, under the so-called Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, the interchange fees that certain issuers charge businesses and organizations for debit transactions are regulated by the Federal Reserve and must be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer in authorizing, clearing and settling the transactions. Rules released by the Federal Reserve in July 2011 to implement the Durbin Amendment mandate a cap on debit transaction interchange fees for card issuers with assets of $10 billion or greater. Since October 2011, a payment network may not prohibit a card issuer from contracting with any other payment network for the processing of electronic debit transactions involving the card issuers debit cards, and card issuers and payment networks may not inhibit the ability of businesses and organizations to direct the routing of debit card transactions over any payment networks that can process the transactions. Rules implementing the Dodd-Frank Act also contain certain prohibitions on payment network exclusivity and merchant routing restrictions. These restrictions could negatively affect the number of debit transactions processed, and prices charged per transaction, which would negatively affect our business. 30 If we violate the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and the Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment (PPRA), it could result in a material breach of contract with one or more of our clients in our education vertical and could harm our reputation. Further, if we disclose student information in violation of FERPA or PPRA, our access to student information could be suspended. Our systems and solutions must also comply, in certain circumstances, with FERPA and PPRA, as well as with rapidly emerging state student data privacy laws that require schools to protect student data and to adopt privacy policies which can significantly vary from one state to another. FERPA generally prohibits an educational institution from disclosing personally identifiable information from a students education records without a parents consent unless certain statutory exceptions apply. Our school clients and their students disclose to us, and we may store, certain information that originates from or comprises a student education record under FERPA. PPRA puts limits on survey, analysis or evaluations that may come into play when schools employ internet-based educational services. Schools are required to develop policies that address, among other things, the collection, disclosure or use of personal information collected from students for the purpose of marketing or selling that information, and can place restrictions on third parties use of that data. As an entity that provides services to educational institutions, we are indirectly subject to FERPAs and PPRAs privacy requirements, and we may not transfer or otherwise disclose or use any personally identifiable information from a student record to another party other than on a basis and in a manner permitted under the statutes. If we violate FERPA or PPRA, it could result in a material breach of contract with one or more of our clients and could reduce our revenues or harm our reputation. Further, if we disclose student information in violation of FERPA or PPRA, our access to student information could be suspended, thus inhibiting our business operations. We must comply with laws and regulations prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices, and any failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business. We and many of our clients are subject to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices. In addition, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that prohibit unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices (UDAAP), the Telemarketing Sales Act and other laws, rules and or regulations, may directly impact the activities of certain of our clients, and in some cases may subject us, as the electronic payment processor or provider of certain services, to investigations, fees, fines and disgorgement of funds if we were deemed to have improperly aided and abetted or otherwise provided the means and instrumentalities to facilitate the illegal or improper activities of the client through our services. Various federal and state regulatory enforcement agencies including the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general have authority to take action against non-banks that engage in UDAAP, or violate other laws, rules and regulations. To the extent we are processing payments or providing products and services for a client that may be in violation of laws, rules and regulations, we may be subject to enforcement actions and as a result may incur losses and liabilities that may adversely affect our business. Numerous other federal laws affect our business, and any failure to comply with those laws could harm our business. Our payment facilitator solutions present certain regulatory challenges, principally those relating to money transmitter issues. To address these challenges we, along with our third-party service providers, use structural arrangements designed to prevent us from receiving or controlling our clients funds and therefore remove our activities from the scope of money transmitter regulation. There can be no assurance that these structural arrangements will remain effective as money transmitter laws continue to evolve or that the applicable regulatory bodies, particularly state agencies, will view our payment facilitator activities as compliant. Our business may also be subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the FCRA), which regulates the use and reporting of consumer credit information and imposes disclosure requirements on entities that take adverse action based on information obtained from credit reporting agencies. We could be liable if our practices under the FCRA do not comply with the FCRA or regulations under it. 31 The Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 included an amendment to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, that requires information returns to be made for each calendar year by payment processing entities and third-party settlement organizations with respect to payments made in settlement of electronic payment transactions and third-party payment network transactions occurring in that calendar year. Reportable transactions are also subject to backup withholding requirements. We could be liable for penalties if our information returns are not in compliance with these regulations. Our solutions may be required to conform, in certain circumstances, to requirements set forth in HIPAA, which governs the privacy and security of protected health information. Depending on how our products and services evolve, we may be subject to a variety of additional laws and regulations, including those governing money transmission, gift cards and other prepaid access instruments, electronic funds transfers, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, restrictions on foreign assets, gambling, banking and lending, U.S. Safe Harbor regulations, and import and export restrictions. Additionally, we are contractually required to comply with certain anti-money laundering regulations in connection with our payment processing activities. These regulations are generally governed by FinCEN and OFAC. Our efforts to comply with these laws and regulations could be costly and result in diversion of management time and effort and may still not guarantee compliance. Regulators continue to increase their scrutiny of compliance with these obligations, which may require us to further revise or expand our compliance program, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of our clients and our clients customers, and to monitor transactions. If we are found to be in violation of any such legal or regulatory requirements, we may be subject to monetary fines or other penalties such as a cease and desist order, or we may be required to make product changes, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Changing laws and governmental rules and regulations designed to protect or limit access to or use of personal information could adversely affect our ability to effectively provide our products and services, and actual or perceived failure to comply with such legal and regulatory obligations may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to those regulations discussed previously that are imposed by the card networks and NACHA, governmental bodies in the United States have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, laws and regulations restricting the use, collection, storage, transfer and disposal of, and requiring safeguarding of, personal information. Our operations are subject to certain provisions of these laws. Relevant federal privacy laws include, in addition to FERPA and PPRA described above, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which applies directly to a broad range of financial institutions and indirectly, or in some instances directly, to companies that provide services to financial institutions. In addition to the CCPA and CPRA described above, the U.S. Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act also regulates the collection of information by operators of websites and other electronic solutions that are directed to children under 13 years of age. These laws and regulations restrict the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent the use and disclosure of protected information. These laws also impose requirements for safeguarding and proper destruction of personal information through the issuance of data security standards or guidelines. In addition, there are state laws restricting the ability to collect and utilize certain types of information such as Social Security and drivers license numbers. Certain state laws impose similar privacy obligations as well as obligations to provide notification of security breaches of computer databases that contain personal information to affected individuals, state officers and consumer reporting agencies and businesses and governmental agencies that own data. 32 In connection with providing products and services to our clients, we are required by regulations, government-required standards, and by our client contracts with them and with our financial institution distribution partners to provide assurances regarding the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer information. These contracts may require periodic audits by independent companies regarding our compliance with applicable standards. The compliance standards relate to the security of our infrastructure, and include components and operational procedures designed to safeguard the confidentiality and security of individuals non-public personal information that our clients share with us. Our ability to maintain compliance with these standards and satisfy these audits will affect our ability to attract, grow and maintain business in the future. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations relating to data privacy and information security, we could be exposed to legal claims and actions or to regulatory enforcement proceedings. In addition, our relationships and reputation could be harmed, which could inhibit our ability to retain existing clients and distribution partners and obtain new clients and distribution partners. Legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling and transfer of personal data continue to evolve. For example, in June 2018, the State of California enacted the CCPA, which went into effect on January 1, 2020. The CCPA requires companies (regardless of their location) that collect personal information of California residents to notify consumers about their data collection, use, and sharing practices. The CCPA also grants consumers specific rights to access and to delete their data and to opt out of certain data sharing with or sales to third parties. The California Attorney General is currently responsible for the enforcement of the CCPA and issued Final Regulations governing CCPA compliance on August 14, 2020. The California Attorney General can impose statutory fines for violations and consumers have a limited private right of action for unauthorized access to certain categories of information. Notably, it may be possible to have statutory damages imposed without proof of actual damages from the unauthorized access. On November 3, 2020, California voters passed Proposition 24, enacting the CPRA, which will become effective on January 1, 2023. CPRA amends and expands the CCPA to create additional consumer privacy rights, such as the right of correction and the right to limit the use and disclosure of sensitive personal information. The CPRA also establishes a new privacy enforcement agency, the CPPA, which will assume responsibility for promulgating, revising, and implementing regulations interpreting the CCPA and CPRA by either July 1, 2021, or six months after the CPPA indicates it is ready to begin rulemaking (whichever is later). Unlike the CCPA, the CPRA cannot be repealed by the California legislature, but can be amended by a simple majority provided such amendments are consistent with and further the purpose and intent of the law. In addition, several other states have introduced or passed similar legislation to the CCPA, including Nevada and Maine, that may impose varying standards and requirements on our data collection, use and processing activities. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination and security of data. Government regulators, industry groups and class action attorneys are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data. Regulators and courts may expand interpretations of existing laws, thereby further impacting our business. If more restrictive privacy laws or rules and/or inconsistent legal requirements are adopted by authorities in the future on the federal or state level, or regulators' enforcement priorities shift, our compliance costs may increase and our ability to perform due diligence on, and monitor the risk of, our current and potential clients may decrease, which could create liability for us. Additionally, if we suffer a data breach, other privacy or cybersecurity regulatory compliance failures or are subject to fines, sanctions or proceedings as a result of actual or perceived compliance failures, or any similar event causing reputational harm, our opportunities for growth may be curtailed, and our potential liability for security breaches may increase, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and competitive position. On May 9, 2019, we replaced our existing senior secured credit facility with a new 2019 senior secured credit facility (the Senior Secured Credit Facility). The Senior Secured Credit Facility, as amended on February 18, 2020 in connection with our offering of Exchangeable Notes, consists of a $275.0 million revolving credit facility, together with an option to increase the revolving credit facility and/or obtain incremental term loans in an additional principal amount of up to $50.0 million in the aggregate (subject to the receipt of additional commitments for any such incremental loan amounts). The Senior Secured Credit Facility accrues interest at LIBOR (based upon an interest period of one, two, three or six months or, under some circumstances, up to twelve months) plus an applicable margin of up to 3.25%, or the base rate (defined as the highest of (x) the Bank of America prime rate, (y) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% and (z) LIBOR plus 1.00%, plus an applicable margin of 0.25% to 1.25% (1.25% as of September 30, 2020), in each case depending upon the consolidated total leverage ratio, as defined in the agreement. Interest is payable at the end of the selected interest period, but no less frequently than quarterly. Additionally, the Senior Secured Credit Facility requires the Company to pay unused commitment fees of 0.15% to 0.30% (0.30% as of September 30, 2020) on any undrawn amounts under the revolving credit facility and letter of credit fees of up to 3.25% on the maximum amount available to be drawn under each letter of credit issued under the agreement. As of September 30, 2020, we had no indebtedness outstanding under our Senior Secured Credit Facility. Although we may enter into interest rate swap agreements in the future, we and our subsidiaries are exposed to interest rate increases on the floating portion of our Senior Secured Credit Facility that are not covered by interest rate swaps, to the extent we have indebtedness outstanding. For additional information about our Senior Secured Credit Facility, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On February 18, 2020, i3 Verticals, LLC issued $138.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 1.0% Exchangeable Senior Notes due February 15, 2025 (the Exchangeable Notes). The Exchangeable Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 1.0% per year, payable semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning on August 15, 2020. Prior to August 15, 2024, the Exchangeable Notes are exchangeable only upon satisfaction of certain conditions and during certain periods described in the Indenture, and thereafter, the Exchangeable Notes are exchangeable at any time until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date. The Exchangeable Notes are exchangeable on the terms set forth in the Indenture into cash, shares of Class A common stock, or a combination thereof, at i3 Verticals, LLCs election. As of September 30, 2020, $117.0 million of the original aggregate principal amount of $138.0 million was outstanding. 34 To service our debt and any additional debt we may incur in the future, we need to generate cash. Our ability to generate cash is subject, to a certain extent, to our ability to successfully execute our business strategy, including acquisition activity, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Although we currently expect that our cash flow from operations, current cash and cash equivalents and available borrowing capacity under the Senior Secured Credit Facility will be sufficient to fund our operations and planned expenditures and to service our debt obligations for at least the next twelve months, there can be no assurance that our business will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings or other financing will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs. To the extent we are required to use our cash flow from operations or the proceeds of any future financing to service our debt instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisition activity or other general corporate purposes, we will be less able to plan for, or react to, changes in our business, industry and in the economy generally. This will place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that the terms of that debt will allow any of the above alternative measures or that these measures would satisfy our scheduled debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to repay or refinance our debt on favorable terms, it could significantly adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our outstanding debt. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facility contains, and any agreements evidencing or governing other future debt may contain, certain restrictive covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to engage in certain activities that are in our long-term best interests, including our ability to: incur liens on property, assets or revenues; incur or assume additional debt or amend our debt and other material agreements; declare or make distributions and redeem or repurchase equity interests or issue preferred stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; make investments; enter into any sale-and-leaseback of property; engage in certain business activities; and engage in mergers and asset sales. The restrictive covenants in our Senior Secured Credit Facility also require us to maintain specified financial ratios. While we have not previously breached and are not in breach of any of these covenants, there can be no guarantee that we will not breach these covenants in the future. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events and factors beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or restrictions could result in an event of default under our Senior Secured Credit Facility. An event of default would permit the lending banks under the facility to take certain actions, including terminating all outstanding commitments and declaring all amounts outstanding under our credit facility to be immediately due and payable, including all outstanding borrowings, accrued and unpaid interest thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable with respect to such borrowings and any terminated commitments. In addition, the lenders would have the right to proceed against the collateral we granted to them, which includes substantially all of our assets. 35 We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. In the future, we may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances, and may determine to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities or refinance existing debt for other reasons. We may not be able to timely secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. The COVID-19 pandemic has previously caused disruption in the financial markets and the businesses of financial institutions and may do so again, potentially causing a slowdown in the decision-making of these institutions. This may affect the timing on which we may obtain any additional funding and there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional funds, in the form of debt or equity, or to amend our Senior Secured Credit Facility on terms acceptable to us, if at all, even if we determined such actions were necessary in the future. As discussed above, the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur additional debt and engage in other capital-raising activities. Any debt financing we obtain in the future could involve covenants that further restrict our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to operate our business, obtain additional capital and pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Furthermore, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt or other equity-linked securities, our then-existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle exchanges of the Exchangeable Notes or to repurchase the Exchangeable Notes upon a fundamental change. Holders of our Exchangeable Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their Exchangeable Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Exchangeable Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. In addition, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of Class A common stock to settle an exchange of the Exchangeable Notes, we will be required to make cash payments in respect of such Exchangeable Notes being exchanged. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make purchases of Exchangeable Notes surrendered therefor or Exchangeable Notes being exchanged. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Exchangeable Notes or to pay cash upon exchanges of the Exchangeable Notes is limited by the agreements governing our existing indebtedness (including the Senior Secured Credit Facility) and may also be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements that will govern our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase Exchangeable Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture that governs the Exchangeable Notes or to pay cash payable on future exchanges of the Exchangeable Notes if and/or as required by the Indenture would constitute a default under the Indenture. A default under the Indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under the agreements governing our other indebtedness (including the credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facility) and agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Exchangeable Notes or make cash payments upon exchanges thereof. The conditional exchange feature of the Exchangeable Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the conditional exchange feature of the Exchangeable Notes is triggered, holders of Exchangeable Notes will be entitled to exchange the Exchangeable Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to exchange their Exchangeable Notes, we may elect to settle all or a portion of our exchange obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to exchange their Exchangeable Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital. 36 The potential cessation or modification of LIBOR may increase our interest expense or otherwise adversely affect us. Our indebtedness under our Senior Secured Credit Facility bears interest at variable interest rates that use the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as a benchmark rate. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR quotations after 2021 (the FCA Announcement). The FCA Announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be assured after 2021, and LIBOR may cease to exist or otherwise be unsuitable for use as a benchmark. Recent proposals for LIBOR reforms may result in the establishment of new methods of calculating LIBOR or the establishment of one or more alternative benchmark rates. When LIBOR ceases to exist, we most likely will need to amend the credit facility, and we cannot predict what alternative interest rate(s) will be negotiated with our counterparties. As a result, our interest expense may increase, our ability to refinance some or all of our existing indebtedness may be impacted and our available cash flow may be adversely affected. The expected phase out of LIBOR and transition to and use of an alternative benchmark rate could cause market volatility or disruption and may adversely affect our access to the capital markets and cost of funding. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure and Our Company We are a holding company with no operations of our own, and our principal asset is our controlling membership interest in i3 Verticals, LLC. Accordingly, we depend on distributions from i3 Verticals, LLC to pay our taxes and other expenses. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and currently have no significant assets other than our ownership of common units of i3 Verticals, LLC. We currently have no independent means of generating revenue. Consequently, our ability to obtain operating funds depends upon distributions from i3 Verticals, LLC. Furthermore, i3 Verticals, LLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not itself subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, its net taxable income is generally allocated to its members, including us, pro rata according to the number of membership interests each member owns. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of i3 Verticals, LLC in addition to expenses related to our operations, and our ability to obtain funds to pay these income taxes currently depends upon distributions from i3 Verticals, LLC. We intend to cause i3 Verticals, LLC to distribute cash to us in an amount at least equal to the amount necessary to cover our respective tax liabilities, if any, with respect to our allocable share of the net income of i3 Verticals, LLC and to cover dividends, if any, we declare, as well as any payments due under the Tax Receivable Agreement (the Tax Receivable Agreement) by and among i3 Verticals, Inc., i3 Verticals, LLC and each of the holders, other than i3 Verticals, Inc., of common units in i3 Verticals, LLC (the Continuing Equity Owners). See the detailed discussion under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Senior Secured Credit Facility in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the restrictive covenants, including i3 Verticals, LLCs obligations to maintain specific financial ratios, that may limit its ability to make certain distributions to us. To the extent that we need funds to pay our taxes or other liabilities or to fund our operations, and i3 Verticals, LLC is restricted from making distributions to us under applicable agreements under which it is bound, including its financing agreements, laws or regulations, does not have sufficient cash to make these distributions or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, we may have to borrow funds to meet these obligations and operate our business, and our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid. 37 The interests of the other Continuing Equity Owners in our business may conflict with the interests of holders of shares of our Class A common stock. The Continuing Equity Owners, who collectively hold approximately 39% of the combined voting power of our common stock as of November 20, 2020, may receive payments from us under the Tax Receivable Agreement upon a redemption or exchange of their common units in i3 Verticals, LLC, including the issuance of shares of our Class A common stock upon any such redemption or exchange. As a result, the interests of the Continuing Equity Owners may conflict with the interests of holders of shares of our Class A common stock. For example, the Continuing Equity Owners may have different tax positions from us which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, and whether and when we should terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement and accelerate our obligations thereunder. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration tax or other considerations of the Continuing Equity Owners even in situations where no similar considerations are relevant to us. We may not be able to realize all or a portion of the tax benefits that are expected to result from future redemptions or exchanges of common units by holders. Our organizational structure, including the Tax Receivable Agreement, confers certain benefits upon the Continuing Equity Owners that will not benefit the holders of our Class A common stock to the same extent as it will benefit the Continuing Equity Owners. Under the Tax Receivable Agreement, we are entitled to retain (a) 15% of the U.S. federal and state income tax savings we realize as a result of increases in tax basis created by any future redemptions or exchanges of common units held by our equity holders that are parties to the Tax Receivable Agreement for shares of our Class A common stock or cash for the tax years following a redemption or exchange covered by the Tax Receivable Agreement, and (b) all of the U.S. federal and state income tax savings we realize from such redemptions or exchanges for tax periods ending after those covered by the Tax Receivable Agreement. Our ability to realize, and benefit from, these tax savings depends on several assumptions, including that we will earn sufficient taxable income each year during the period over which the deductions arising from any such basis increases and payments are available and that there are no adverse changes in applicable law or regulations. If our actual taxable income were insufficient or there were adverse changes in applicable law or regulations, we may be unable to realize all or a portion of these expected benefits, and our cash flows and stockholders equity could be negatively affected. In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement to the Continuing Equity Owners may be accelerated or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. The Tax Receivable Agreement provides that upon certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control or if, at any time, we elect an early termination of the Tax Receivable Agreement, then our obligations, or our successors obligations, under the Tax Receivable Agreement to make payments thereunder would be based on certain assumptions, including an assumption that we would have sufficient taxable income to fully use all potential future tax benefits that are subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. As a result of the foregoing, (a) we could be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement that are greater than the specified percentage of the actual benefits we ultimately realize in respect of the tax benefits that are subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement and (b) if we elect to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early, we would be required to make an immediate cash payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits that are the subject of the Tax Receivable Agreement, which payment may be made significantly in advance of the actual realization, if any, of such future tax benefits. In these situations, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fund or finance our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement. 38 In certain circumstances, i3 Verticals, LLC will be required to make distributions to us and the Continuing Equity Owners, and the distributions that i3 Verticals, LLC will be required to make may be substantial. Funds used by i3 Verticals, LLC to satisfy its tax distribution obligations will not be available for reinvestment in our business. Moreover, the tax distributions that i3 Verticals, LLC will be required to make may be substantial, and will likely exceed (as a percentage of i3 Verticals, LLCs net income) the overall effective tax rate applicable to a similarly situated corporate taxpayer. As a result of potential differences in the amount of net taxable income allocable to us and to the Continuing Equity Owners, as well as the use of an assumed tax rate in calculating i3 Verticals, LLCs distribution obligations, we may receive distributions significantly in excess of our tax liabilities and obligations to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. To the extent, as currently expected, we do not distribute such cash balances as dividends on our Class A common stock and instead, for example, hold such cash balances or lend them to i3 Verticals, LLC, the Continuing Equity Owners would benefit from any value attributable to such accumulated cash balances as a result of their ownership of Class A common stock following a redemption or exchange of their common units. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a significant and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Since the completion of our IPO, we have been subject to a requirement, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), to conduct an annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and furnish a report by management on, among other things, our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting each fiscal year beginning with the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC. However, because we are an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the earlier of the fifth year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC or the date we are no longer an emerging growth company. Ensuring that we have adequate internal control over financial reporting in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that must be evaluated frequently. Establishing and maintaining these internal controls is and will continue to be costly and may divert managements attention. When evaluating our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify material weaknesses that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the applicable deadline imposed upon us for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude, on an ongoing basis, that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we have not adequately implemented or complied with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, or suffer other adverse regulatory consequences, including penalties for violation of Nasdaq rules. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. A loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements also could occur if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to report one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system, including the costs of the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could also lead to a decline in the price of our Class A common stock. 39 Certain provisions of Delaware law and anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer, or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt, or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. These provisions provide for, among other things: prohibiting the use of cumulative voting for the election of directors; advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings; and certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings. In addition, while we have opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains similar provisions providing that we may not engage in certain business combinations with any interested stockholder for a three-year period following the time that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless: prior to such time, our board of directors (Board of Directors) approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the votes of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding certain shares; or at or subsequent to that time, the business combination is approved by our Board of Directors and by the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the votes of our outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder. Generally, a business combination includes a merger, asset or stock sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Subject to certain exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with that persons affiliates and associates, owns, or within the previous three years owned, 15% or more of the votes of our outstanding voting stock. For purposes of this provision, voting stock means any class or series of stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. Under certain circumstances, this provision will make it more difficult for a person who would be an interested stockholder to effect various business combinations with our company for a three-year period. This provision may encourage companies interested in acquiring our company to negotiate in advance with our Board of Directors because the stockholder approval requirement would be avoided if our Board of Directors approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. These provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our Board of Directors and may make it more difficult to accomplish transactions that stockholders may otherwise deem to be in their best interests. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company that is in the best interest of our minority stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to nominate directors for election to our Board of Directors and take other corporate actions. 40 We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future, which could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our Class A common stock, which could depress the price of our Class A common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue one or more series of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of the shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Our preferred stock can be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our Class A common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discourage bids for our Class A common stock at a premium to the market price, and materially and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Class A common stock. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock The Continuing Equity Owners own common units in i3 Verticals, LLC, and the Continuing Equity Owners have the right to redeem their common units in i3 Verticals, LLC pursuant to the terms of the i3 Verticals LLC Agreement for shares of Class A common stock or cash. As of September 30, 2020, we have an aggregate of 135,555,885 shares of Class A common stock authorized but unissued, including 11,900,621 shares of Class A common stock issuable, at our election, upon redemption of i3 Verticals, LLC common units that are held by the Continuing Equity Owners. Subject to certain restrictions contained in the i3 Verticals LLC Agreement the Continuing Equity Owners are entitled to have their common units redeemed from time to time at each of their options (subject in certain circumstances to time-based and service-based vesting requirements and other limitations) for newly-issued shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis or a cash payment equal to a volume weighted average market price of one share of Class A common stock for each Common Unit redeemed, in each case, in accordance with the terms of the i3 Verticals LLC Agreement. At our election, however, we may effect a direct exchange by i3 Verticals, Inc. of such Class A common stock or such cash, as applicable, for such common units in lieu of redemption. The Continuing Equity Owners may exercise such redemption right for as long as their common units remain outstanding. We have also entered into a Registration Rights Agreement pursuant to which the shares of Class A common stock issued to certain Continuing Equity Owners upon such redemption and the shares of Class A common stock issued to certain Continuing Equity Owners in connection with the Reorganization Transactions will be eligible for resale registration, subject to certain limitations set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our Class A common stock may have on the market price of our Class A common stock. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock, including shares issued in connection with an acquisition, or the perception that such sales or distributions could occur, may cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Holders of our Class A common stock may be diluted by future issuances of preferred stock or additional Class A common stock or common units in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise; future sales of such shares in the public market, or the expectations that such sales may occur, could lower our stock price. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue shares of our Class A common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to our Class A common stock for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion. We could issue a significant number of shares of Class A common stock in the future in connection with investments or acquisitions. Any of these issuances could dilute our existing stockholders, and such dilution could be significant. Moreover, such dilution could have a material adverse effect on the market price for the shares of our Class A common stock. The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of shares of our Class A common stock, either by diluting the voting power of our Class A common stock if the preferred stock votes together with the common stock as a single class, or by giving the holders of any 41 such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote, even if the action were approved by the holders of our shares of our Class A common stock. The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our Class A common stock by making an investment in the Class A common stock less attractive. For example, investors in the Class A common stock may not wish to purchase Class A common stock at a price above the conversion price of a series of convertible preferred stock because the holders of the preferred stock would effectively be entitled to purchase Class A common stock at the lower conversion price, causing economic dilution to the holders of Class A common stock. Sales of shares of our Class A common stock in connection with the Registration Rights Agreement, or the prospect of any such sales, could materially affect the market price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. In connection with the completion of our IPO, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with certain Continuing Equity Owners. Any sales in connection with the Registration Rights Agreement, or the prospect of any such sales, could materially and adversely impact the market price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. In the future, we may also issue additional securities if we need to raise capital, including, but not limited to, in connection with acquisitions, which could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of Class A common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 42 Item 2. Properties Our properties consist primarily of office space and call centers. The locations include our corporate headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee with approximately 10,000 square feet, offices in Murfreesboro, Tennessee with approximately 8,000 square feet, and additional properties in the following cities, all of which are leased. Property Location Corporate Headquarters Nashville, Tennessee Offices Alexandria, Virginia Offices Canton, Georgia Offices Centennial, Colorado Offices Cincinnati, Ohio Offices Fort Smith, Arkansas Offices Gainesville, Florida Offices Honolulu, Hawaii Offices Houston, Texas Offices Jackson Township, Ohio Offices Jacksonville, Florida Offices Lake Mary, Florida Offices Los Alamitos, California Offices Madison, Wisconsin Offices Minneapolis, Michigan Call Center Murfreesboro, Tennessee Offices Orlando, Florida Offices Owensboro, Kentucky Call Center San Diego, California Offices Santa Barbara, California Offices Savannah, Georgia Offices Shamokin Dam, Pennsylvania Offices Shreveport, Louisiana Offices Southfield, Michigan Offices Stevenson Ranch, California Offices Sulphur Springs, Texas Offices Temple, Georgia Offices Tukwila, Washington Offices Wellington, Florida Offices Wixom, Michigan For leases that are scheduled to expire during the next 12 months, we may negotiate new lease agreements, renew existing lease agreements, exercise any respective options to extend the existing lease agreements, or use alternate facilities. We believe our facilities are adequate for our needs and believe that we should be able to renew any of the above leases or secure similar property without an adverse impact on our operations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The information required with respect to this item can be found in Note 14 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements contained in this report and is incorporated by reference into this Part I, Item 3. 43 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 44 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information On June 21, 2018, our Class A common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol IIIV. There is currently no established public trading market for our Class B common stock. Stockholders As of November 20, 2020, there were 98 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock. The number of record holders does not include persons who held shares of our Class A common stock in nominee or street name accounts through brokers. As of November 20, 2020, there were 56 stockholders of record of our Class B common stock. Performance Graph The following graph shows a comparison of cumulative total shareholder return for (1) our Class A common stock, (2) the S&P 500 Index and (3) the S&P Information technology Index. The graph begins on June 21, 2018 (the first day our common stock was traded in conjunction with our IPO). The graph assumes the value of the investment in our common stock and each index was $100.00 on June 21, 2018 and that all dividends, if any, were reinvested. The comparisons reflected in the graph and table are not intended to forecast the future performance of our stock and may not be indicative of our future performance. 45 The following table presents the corresponding data for the periods shown in the graph: i3 Verticals, Inc. S&P 500 S&P 500 Information Technology June 21, 2018 $ 100.00 $ 100.00 $ 100.00 June 29, 2018 $ 117.08 $ 98.86 $ 97.44 September 30, 2018 $ 176.77 $ 105.97 $ 105.71 December 31, 2018 $ 185.38 $ 91.17 $ 87.02 March 29, 2019 $ 184.77 $ 103.08 $ 103.87 June 28, 2019 $ 226.54 $ 106.98 $ 109.74 September 30, 2019 $ 154.77 $ 108.25 $ 113.00 December 31, 2019 $ 217.31 $ 117.49 $ 128.82 March 31, 2020 $ 146.85 $ 93.99 $ 113.08 June 30, 2020 $ 232.69 $ 112.75 $ 147.12 September 30, 2020 $ 194.23 $ 122.30 $ 164.27 Sales of Unregistered Securities In August and September 2020, we issued an aggregate of 3,500 and 487,500 shares, respectively, of Class A common stock in exchange for an equivalent number of shares of Class B common stock and Common Units pursuant to the terms of the i3 Verticals, LLC Limited Liability Company Agreement. These shares were issued in reliance on an exemption from registration pursuant to Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933. All other sales of unregistered securities during the year ended September 30, 2020, have been previously disclosed in either a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or a Current Report on Form 8-K. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We did not repurchase any shares of our Class A or Class B common stock during the quarter ended September 30, 2020. 46 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information set forth below should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Year ended September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Statement of Operations Data: Revenue $ 150,134 $ 376,307 $ 323,508 $ 262,571 $ 199,644 Interchange and network fees (1) 242,867 214,543 189,112 140,998 Other costs of services 47,230 44,237 40,314 28,798 21,934 Selling general and administrative 78,323 62,860 40,585 27,194 20,393 Depreciation and amortization 18,217 16,564 11,839 10,085 9,898 Change in fair value of contingent consideration (1,409) 3,389 3,866 (218) 2,458 Total other expenses 11,547 6,004 16,985 6,521 5,813 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (2,795) (177) 337 177 243 Net (loss) income $ (979) $ 563 $ (4,961) $ 902 $ (2,093) Net (loss) income per share of Class A common stock (2) : Basic (3) $ (0.03) $ (0.29) $ 0.08 Diluted (4) $ (0.03) $ (0.29) $ 0.08 ____________________ 1. Effective October 1, 2019, our revenues are presented net of interchange and network fees in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of the recently adopted accounting pronouncement. 2. Basic and diluted earnings per Class A common stock is presented only for the period after the Companys Reorganization Transactions. As such, net income used in the calculation for the year ended September 30, 2018, represents the net income attributable to Class A common stockholders for the period from June 25, the closing of our IPO, through September 30, 2018. 3. Excludes 204,969, 282,801 and 299,412 shares of restricted Class A common stock for the years ended September 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 4. For the years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, the following securities were excluded from the weighted average effect of dilutive securities in the computation of diluted earnings per share of Class A common stock: a. 15,856,855 shares of weighted average Class B common stock for the year ended September 30, 2019, along with the reallocation of net income assuming conversion of these shares, were excluded because the effect would have been anti-dilutive, b. 1,327,500 and 626,500 options to purchase shares of Class A common stock for the years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, were excluded because the exercise price of these options exceeded the average market price of our Class A common stock during the period (out-of-the-money) and the effect of including them would have been anti-dilutive, and c. 1,179,538 and 1,009,858 shares of Class A common stock for the years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, resulting from estimated stock option exercises as calculated by the treasury stock method, and 204,969 and 282,801 shares of restricted Class A common stock for the years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 were excluded because the effect of including them would have been anti-dilutive. 47 September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 15,568 $ 1,119 $ 572 $ 955 $ 3,776 Total assets 403,526 349,302 175,142 139,991 100,282 Long-term debt, including current portion 90,758 139,298 36,776 110,836 83,537 Total liabilities 163,358 206,861 62,944 129,122 102,770 Total equity 240,168 142,441 112,198 3,146 (9,510) Year ended September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Cash Flow Data: Net cash provided by operating activities 23,720 26,597 18,080 8,330 10,005 Net cash used in investing activities (35,431) (143,728) (38,055) (47,903) (35,154) Net cash provided by financing activities 29,112 119,094 19,244 37,352 28,924 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our audited financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to those under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain amounts in this section may not foot due to rounding. Executive Overview Recognizing the convergence of software and payments, i3 Verticals was founded in 2012 with the purpose of delivering seamlessly integrated payment and software solutions to SMBs and organizations in strategic vertical markets. Since commencing operations, we have built a broad suite of payment and software solutions that address the specific needs of SMBs and other organizations in our strategic vertical markets, and we believe our suite of solutions differentiates us from our competition. Our primary strategic vertical markets include education, non-profit, public sector and healthcare. COVID-19 On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 as a pandemic, which continues to spread throughout the United States and other parts of the world. The spread of COVID-19 caused several states and cities to declare states of emergency or disaster proclamations. State and local governments, together with public health officials, recommended and mandated precautions to mitigate the spread of the virus, including the closure of local government facilities and parks, schools, restaurants, many businesses and other locations of public assembly. Although many of the restrictions have eased across the country, the pandemic has yet to show substantial signs of decline in the U.S. Some areas are re-imposing closures and other restrictions due to increased rates of COVID-19 cases. As a result, the COVID-19 pandemic is significantly affecting overall economic conditions in the United States. The economic impact of these conditions is materially impacting our business and is expected to continue to adversely impact our strategic verticals and our business in general. For example, beginning in the second half of March 2020 and continuing through the remainder of fiscal 2020, we and our clients have experienced a decline and subsequent partial recovery in payment volume and the number of transactions processed, and therefore, a decline and subsequent partial recovery in revenue in our strategic verticals. Our payment volume was $0.8 billion, $1.0 billion, $1.2 billion, $1.2 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion for the months of April, May, June, July, 48 August and September 2020, respectively. Further, for the second half of the year ended September 30, 2020, a significant portion of our revenue and payment volume within our Merchant Services segment and our Proprietary Software and Payments segment was derived from our education and public sector strategic verticals. Due to the temporary closure of schools and many local government facilities throughout the nation, we expect the combined revenue and payment volume from multiple of these and other strategic verticals will be adversely impacted for the duration of the closure. There are no reliable estimates of how long the pandemic will last, how many people are likely to be affected by it or the duration or types of restrictions that will be imposed. For that reason, we are unable to predict the long-term impact of the pandemic on our business at this time. On April 3, 2020, we announced certain proactive actions in response to the significant uncertainty around the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, which included temporarily furloughing a portion of our employees and a workforce reduction program that included the elimination of certain positions as well as a general reduction in headcount. The total number of employees impacted by the furlough and workforce reduction represented approximately 12% of our workforce. A portion of those furloughed have since returned to work. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is fluid and continues to evolve, and therefore, we cannot currently predict with certainty the extent to which our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity will ultimately be impacted. Our top priority is to protect our employees and their families, as well as our vendors and clients. We continue to take precautionary measures as directed by health authorities and local and national governments. Given the dynamic nature of these circumstances, the duration of business disruption and reduced revenues and payment volume, the related financial effect cannot be reasonably estimated at this time but is expected to materially adversely impact our business for the 2021 fiscal year. There could be material changes to estimates as a result of ongoing COVID-19 developments in future periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates. See Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe COVID-19 pandemic is significantly affecting our operations, business and financial condition, and our liquidity could also be negatively impacted, particularly if the U.S. economy remains unstable for a significant amount of time. At September 30, 2020, we had $15.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $275.0 million of available capacity under our Senior Secured Credit Facility (as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Facility subsection within the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below), subject to our financial covenants. Our liquidity profile reflects our completed offering in February 2020 of an aggregate principal amount of $138.0 million in 1.0% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2025, with substantially all the proceeds being used to pay down outstanding borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facility. As of September 30, 2020, $117.0 million of the original aggregate principal amount of $138.0 million was outstanding. As of September 30, 2020, we were in compliance with these covenants with a consolidated interest coverage ratio, total leverage ratio and consolidated senior leverage ratio of 6.71x, 2.59x and 0.0x, respectively. For additional information about our Senior Secured Credit Facility and Exchangeable Notes, see the section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources below. Acquisitions A core component of our growth strategy includes a disciplined approach to acquisitions of companies and technology, evidenced by numerous platform acquisitions and tuck-in acquisitions since our inception in 2012. Our acquisitions have opened new strategic vertical markets, increased the number of businesses and organizations to whom we provide solutions and augmented our existing payment and software solutions and capabilities. Acquisitions subsequent to September 30, 2020 Subsequent to September 30, 2020, we completed the acquisition of four businesses. The first acquisition is within the Companys Public Sector vertical and provides software services to public safety and law enforcement customers. The second acquisition is within the Companys Healthcare vertical and offers medical billing and other software. The third acquisition offers proprietary technology that will augment the Companys existing platform across several verticals. The final acquisition sells a combination of proprietary and third-party software, which eliminates paper-based systems by creating integrated electronic workflows for courts and government agencies. Total purchase consideration included $59.6 million in cash and revolving line of credit proceeds, and an amount of contingent consideration, which is still being valued. 49 Acquisitions during the year ended September 30, 2020 During the year ended September 30, 2020, we completed the acquisitions of three unrelated businesses. Two expand our geographic reach and software capabilities in the public sector vertical. The other adds text-to-pay capabilities and other software solutions in our non-profit vertical. Total purchase consideration was $32.6 million, including $27.9 million in revolving credit facility proceeds and $4.7 million of contingent consideration. Acquisitions during the year ended September 30, 2019 On May 31, 2019, we acquired all the outstanding stock of Pace Payment Systems, Inc. (Pace). We acquired Pace to expand our software offerings, primarily in the public sector and education verticals. The total net purchase consideration was $56.1 million, including $52.5 million in cash consideration, funded by proceeds from our revolving credit facility, $3.3 million of contingent consideration, $0.2 million of restricted Class A common stock in i3 Verticals and potential additional consideration of up to $20.0 million to be paid based upon the achievement of certain growth metrics related to the financial performance of Pace in the 24 months from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2021. During the year ended September 30, 2019, we also completed the acquisitions of additional businesses. These acquisitions expanded the Company's merchant base. Total net purchase consideration for these businesses was $98.9 million, which included $89.2 million of cash consideration funded with proceeds from our revolving credit facility and $9.7 million of contingent cash consideration. The results of operations of these acquired businesses have been included in our financial statements since the applicable acquisition date. For additional information, see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Our Revenue and Expenses Revenues We generate revenue primarily from volume-based payment processing fees (discount fees), and to a lesser extent, software licensing subscriptions, ongoing support and other POS-related solutions that we provide to our clients directly and through our distribution partners. Volume-based fees represent a percentage of the dollar amount of each credit or debit transaction processed. Revenues are also derived from a variety of fixed transaction or service fees, including authorization fees, convenience fees, statement fees, annual fees and fees for other miscellaneous services, such as handling chargebacks. Interchange and network fees. Interchange and network fees consist primarily of pass-through fees that make up a portion of discount fee revenue. These include assessment fees payable to card associations, which are a percentage of the processing volume we generate from Visa and Mastercard. Upon our adoption of ASC 606 on October 1, 2019, these fees are presented net within revenue. Expenses Other costs of services . Other costs of services include costs directly attributable to processing and bank sponsorship costs. These also include related costs such as residual payments to our distribution partners, which are based on a percentage of the net revenues (revenue less interchange and network fees) generated from client referrals. Losses resulting from excessive chargebacks against a client are included in other cost of services. The cost of equipment sold is also included in cost of services. Interchange and other costs of services are recognized at the time the clients transactions are processed. Selling, general and administrative . Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries and other employment costs, professional services, rent and utilities and other operating costs. Depreciation and amortization . Depreciation expense consists of depreciation on our investments in property, equipment and computer hardware and software. Depreciation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. Amortization expense for acquired intangible assets and internally developed software is recognized using a proportional cash flow method. Amortization expense for internally developed software is recognized over the estimated useful life of the asset. The useful lives of contract-based intangible assets are equal to the terms of the agreement. 50 Interest expense, net. Our interest expense consists of interest on our outstanding indebtedness under our Senior Secured Credit Facility and Exchangeable Notes, and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs. How We Assess Our Business Merchant Services Our Merchant Services segment provides comprehensive payment solutions to businesses and organizations. Our Merchant Services segment includes third-party integrated payment solutions as well as merchant of record payment services across our strategic vertical markets. Proprietary Software and Payments Our Proprietary Software and Payments segment delivers solutions, including embedded payments, to our clients through company-owned software. Payments are delivered through both the payment facilitator model and the merchant of record processing model. We have Proprietary Software and Payments clients across all of our strategic vertical markets. Other Our Other category includes corporate overhead expenses, when presenting reportable segment information. Effective July 1, 2020, we realigned one component from the Proprietary Software and Payments segment to the Merchant Services segment. Prior periods have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the Company's current segment presentation. For additional information on our segments, see Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. Key Operating Metrics We evaluate our performance through key operating metrics, including: the dollar volume of payments our clients process through us (payment volume); the portion of our payment volume that is produced by integrated transactions; and period-to-period payment volume attrition. Our payment volume for the years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 was $14.4 billion and $13.1 billion, respectively, representing a period-to-period growth rate of 9%. Our payment volume for the second half of the year ended September 30, 2020 was adversely impacted by deteriorating economic conditions as a result of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our payment volume was $0.8 billion, $1.0 billion, $1.2 billion, $1.2 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion for the months of April, May, June, July, August and September 2020, respectively. We focus on volume, because it is a reflection of the scale and economic activity of our client base and because a significant part of our revenue is derived as a percentage of our clients dollar volume receipts. Payment volume reflects the addition of new clients and same store payment volume growth of existing clients, partially offset by client attrition during the period. Integrated payments represents payment transactions that are generated in situations where payment technology is embedded within our own proprietary software, a clients software or critical business process. We evaluate the portion of our payment volume that is produced by integrated transactions because we believe the convergence of software and payments is a significant trend impacting our industry. We believe integrated payments create stronger client relationships with higher payment volume retention and growth. Integrated payments grew to 55% of our payment volume for the year ended September 30, 2020 from 50% for the year ended September 30, 2019. We measure period-to-period payment volume attrition as the change in card-based payment volume for all clients that were processing with us for the same period in the prior year. We exclude from our calculations payment volume from new clients added during the period. We experience attrition in payment volume as a result of several factors, including business closures, transfers of clients accounts to our competitors and account closures that we initiate due to heightened credit risks. During the year ended September 30, 2020, our average net volume attrition per month remained below 2%. 51 Results of Operations Year Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Year Ended September 30, 2019 The following table presents our historical results of operations for the periods indicated: Year ended September 30, Change (in thousands) 2020 2019 Amount % Revenue $ 150,134 $ 376,307 $ (226,173) (60.1) % Operating expenses Interchange and network fees (1) 242,867 (242,867) n/m Other costs of services 47,230 44,237 2,993 6.8 % Selling general and administrative 78,323 62,860 15,463 24.6 % Depreciation and amortization 18,217 16,564 1,653 10.0 % Change in fair value of contingent consideration (1,409) 3,389 (4,798) (141.6) % Total operating expenses 142,361 369,917 (227,556) (61.5) % Income from operations 7,773 6,390 1,383 21.6 % Other expenses Interest expense, net 8,926 6,004 2,922 48.7 % Other expense 2,621 2,621 n/m Total other expenses 11,547 6,004 5,543 92.3 % (Loss) income before income taxes (3,774) 386 (4,160) (1,077.7) % Benefit from income taxes (2,795) (177) (2,618) 1,479.1 % Net (loss) income (979) 563 (1,542) n/m Net (loss) income attributable to non-controlling interest (560) 3,608 (4,168) n/m Net loss attributable to i3 Verticals, Inc. $ (419) $ (3,045) $ 2,626 n/m n/m = not meaningful __________________________ 1. Effective October 1, 2019, our revenues are presented net of interchange and network fees in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of the recently adopted accounting pronouncement. Revenue Revenue decreased $226.2 million, or 60.1%, to $150.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $376.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. This decrease was driven by the adoption of ASC 606 effective October 1, 2019, which resulted in our revenues being presented net of interchange and network fees prospectively. This change in presentation affected our reported revenues and operating expenses for the year ended September 30, 2020 by the same amount and had no effect on our income from operations. Our revenue in the month of March 2020 and in the second half of the year ended September 30, 2020 was also negatively impacted an overall reduction in consumer spending as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 52 Revenue without the effect of the adoption of ASC 606 increased $17.9 million, or 4.8%, to $394.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $376.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. This increase was principally driven by acquisitions completed during the 2020 and 2019 fiscal years. These acquisitions contributed an incremental $42.2 million, net of inter-segment eliminations, to our revenue for the year ended September 30, 2020. Excluding revenues from these acquisitions, revenue without the adoption of ASC 606 decreased $24.3 million, principally driven by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Without the effect of the adoption of ASC 606, revenue related to a subset of merchant contracts purchased in 2014 and 2017 (Purchased Portfolios), which have a higher rate of revenue attrition and payment volume attrition than the rest of our business, decreased $3.8 million, or 30.5%, to $8.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $12.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. Excluding revenues from the Purchased Portfolios and the effect of the adoption of ASC 606, revenue grew $21.7 million, or 6.0%, to $385.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $363.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. Without the effect of the adoption of ASC 606, revenue within Merchant Services decreased $1.0 million, or 0.3%, to $338.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $339.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. This decrease was principally driven by a decrease in other revenue of $5.4 million, partially offset by an increase in payments revenue of $4.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2020. The overall decreases in other revenue was related to the COVID-19 pandemic, offset by increases in payments revenue primarily due to the incremental impact of acquisitions completed during the 2019 fiscal year. Without the effect of the adoption of ASC 606, revenue within Proprietary Software and Payments increased $20.7 million, or 55.3%, to $58.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $37.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. This increase was principally driven by an increase in other revenue of $16.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2020, driven by software and related services. In addition, payments revenue increased $4.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2020, driven by increases in payment volume. These increases in Proprietary Software and Payments revenue were primarily due to the incremental impact of acquisitions completed during the 2020 and 2019 fiscal years, despite overall decreases in other revenue related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Payment volume increased $1.2 billion, or 9.4%, to $14.4 billion for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $13.1 billion for the year ended September 30, 2019. This increase was principally driven by acquisitions completed during the 2020 and 2019 fiscal years and organic growth prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Interchange and Network Fees Interchange and network fees decreased $242.9 million, or 100.0%, to $0.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $242.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. This decrease was driven by the adoption of ASC 606 effective October 1, 2019, which resulted in our revenues being presented net of interchange and network fees prospectively. This change in presentation affected our reported revenues and operating expenses for the year ended September 30, 2020 by the same amount and had no effect on our income from operations. Interchange and network fees without the effect of the adoption of ASC 606 increased $1.2 million, or 0.5%, to $244.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $242.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. Acquisitions completed during the 2020 and 2019 fiscal years contributed an incremental $14.1 million to our interchange and network fees for the year ended September 30, 2020. Excluding interchange and network fees from these acquisitions, interchange and network fees without the adoption of ASC 606 decreased $12.8 million, principally driven by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Without the effect of the adoption of ASC 606, interchange and network fees related to the Purchased Portfolios decreased $1.7 million, or 26.7%, to $4.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $6.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. Excluding interchange and network fees from these Purchased Portfolios and the effect of the adoption of ASC 606, interchange and network fees grew $2.9 million, or 1.2%, to $239.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $236.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. 53 Without the effect of the adoption of ASC 606, interchange and network fees within Merchant Services increased $0.9 million, or 0.4%, to $237.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $236.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. Without the effect of the adoption of ASC 606, interchange and network fees within Proprietary Software and Payments increased $0.3 million or 5.2%, to $7.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $6.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. Other Costs of Services Other costs of services increased $3.0 million, or 6.8%, to $47.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $44.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. Acquisitions completed during the 2020 and 2019 fiscal years contributed an incremental $6.3 million, net of inter-segment eliminations, to our other costs of services for the year ended September 30, 2020. Other costs of services within Merchant Services increased $2.5 million, or 5.9%, to $43.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $41.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. Other costs of services within Proprietary Software and Payments increased $2.3 million, or 83.9%, to $5.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $2.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. This increase was primarily driven by acquisitions completed during the 2020 and 2019 fiscal years, which contributed an incremental $2.0 million, net of inter-segment eliminations, to our other costs of services within Proprietary Software and Payments for the year ended September 30, 2020. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $15.5 million, or 24.6%, to $78.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $62.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. This increase was principally driven by a $12.3 million increase in employment expense, primarily resulting from an increase in headcount that resulted from acquisitions and an increase in stock compensation expense. The majority of the remaining increase was comprised of increases in software and technological services of $1.0 million and professional services and insurance of $0.6 million, partially offset by decreases in travel expenses of $0.9 million. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization increased $1.7 million, or 10.0%, to $18.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $16.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. Amortization expense increased $1.0 million to $16.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $15.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 primarily due to greater amortization expense resulting from acquisitions completed during the 2020 and 2019 fiscal years. Depreciation expense increased $0.6 million to $1.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $1.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration Change in fair value of contingent consideration to be paid in connection with acquisitions was a benefit of $1.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 due to some of our acquisitions achieving lower performance as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The change in fair value of contingent consideration for the year ended September 30, 2019 was a charge of $3.4 million. Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net, increased $2.9 million, or 48.7%, to $8.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $6.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. The increase is driven by the amortization of the debt discount, which was the difference between the principal amount of the Exchangeable Notes and the liability component, recorded in connection with the issuance of the Exchangeable Notes. We recorded $2.9 million in interest expense related to the amortization of the debt discount during the year ended September 30, 2020. The increase also reflected a higher average outstanding debt balance, but was offset by a lower weighted average interest rate for the year ended September 30, 2020 as compared to the year ended September 30, 2019. 54 Other expense Other expense was $2.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2020, primarily relating to a loss on retirement of debt due to the carrying value exceeding the fair value of the repurchased portion of the Exchangeable Notes at the dates of repurchases. There was no other expense for the year ended September 30, 2019. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes decreased to a benefit of $2.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from a benefit of $0.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. As described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, we had a $2.7 million reduction in the valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset related to our investment in partnership and a corresponding increase in the benefit from income taxes in the year ended September 30, 2020. Our effective tax rate was 74% for the year ended September 30, 2020. Our effective tax rate differs from the federal statutory rate due to the reduction in the valuation allowance on the investment in partnership. i3 Verticals, Inc. is subject to federal, state and local income taxes with respect to its allocable share of any taxable income of i3 Verticals, LLC and is taxed at the prevailing corporate tax rates. Year Ended September 30, 2019 Compared to Year Ended September 30, 2018 The following table presents our historical results of operations for the periods indicated: Year ended September 30, Change (in thousands) 2019 2018 Amount % Revenue $ 376,307 $ 323,508 $ 52,799 16.3 % Operating expenses Interchange and network fees 242,867 214,543 28,324 13.2 % Other costs of services 44,237 40,314 3,923 9.7 % Selling general and administrative 62,860 40,585 22,275 54.9 % Depreciation and amortization 16,564 11,839 4,725 39.9 % Change in fair value of contingent consideration 3,389 3,866 (477) (12.3) % Total operating expenses 369,917 311,147 58,770 18.9 % Income from operations 6,390 12,361 (5,971) (48.3) % Other expenses Interest expense, net 6,004 8,498 (2,494) (29.3) % Change in fair value of warrant liability 8,487 (8,487) n/m Total other expenses 6,004 16,985 (10,981) (64.7) % Income (loss) before income taxes 386 (4,624) 5,010 (108.3) % (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (177) 337 (514) (152.5) % Net income (loss) 563 (4,961) 5,524 n/m Net income attributable to non-controlling interest 3,608 1,937 1,671 n/m Net (loss) income attributable to i3 Verticals, Inc. $ (3,045) $ (6,898) $ 3,853 n/m n/m = not meaningful 55 Revenue Revenue increased $52.8 million, or 16.3%, to $376.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $323.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. This increase was principally driven by acquisitions completed during the 2019 and 2018 fiscal years. These acquisitions contributed an incremental $41.2 million to our revenue for the year ended September 30, 2019. The remaining $11.6 million of increased revenue was due primarily to an increase in payment volume. Revenue related to a subset of merchant contracts purchased in 2014 and 2017 (Purchased Portfolios), which have a higher rate of revenue attrition and payment volume attrition than the rest of our business, decreased $5.4 million, or 30.2%, to $12.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $17.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. Excluding revenues from the Purchased Portfolios, revenue grew $58.2 million, or 19.0%, to $363.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $305.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. Revenue within Merchant Services increased $35.3 million, or 11.6%, to $339.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $303.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. This increase was principally driven by acquisitions completed during the 2019 and 2018 fiscal years. These acquisitions contributed an incremental $24.7 million of our revenue within Merchant Services for the year ended September 30, 2019. The remaining $10.6 million of increased revenue was due primarily to an increase in payment volume. Revenue within Proprietary Software and Payments increased $17.5 million or 88.4%, to $37.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $19.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. This increase was partially driven by acquisitions completed during the 2019 and 2018 fiscal years. These acquisitions contributed an incremental $16.6 million of our revenue within Proprietary Software and Payments for the year ended September 30, 2019. The remaining $1.0 million of increased revenue was due primarily to an increase in payment volume. Payment volume increased $1.6 billion, or 13.8%, to $13.1 billion for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $11.6 billion for the year ended September 30, 2018. Interchange and Network Fees Interchange and network fees increased $28.3 million, or 13.2%, to $242.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $214.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. This increase was principally driven by acquisitions completed during the 2019 and 2018 fiscal years. These acquisitions contributed an incremental $17.3 million to our interchange and network fees for the year ended September 30, 2019. The remaining $11.0 million of increased interchange and network fees was due primarily to an increase in payment volume. Interchange and network fees related to the Purchased Portfolios decreased $2.6 million, or 29.3%, to $6.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $8.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. Excluding interchange and network fees from these Purchased Portfolios, interchange and network fees grew $30.9 million, or 15.0%, to $236.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $205.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. Interchange and network fees within Merchant Services increased $26.5 million, or 12.6%, to $236.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $209.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. Interchange and network fees within Proprietary Software and Payments increased $1.9 million or 38.4%, to $6.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $4.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. Other Costs of Services Other costs of services increased $3.9 million, or 9.7%, to $44.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $40.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. This increase was principally driven by acquisitions completed during the 2019 and 2018 fiscal years. These acquisitions contributed an incremental $4.1 million to our other costs of services for the year ended September 30, 2019. 56 Other costs of services within Merchant Services increased $2.9 million, or 7.6%, to $41.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $38.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. Other costs of services within Proprietary Software and Payments increased $1.0 million, or 57.0%, to $2.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $1.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $22.3 million, or 54.9%, to $62.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $40.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in employment costs of $16.7 million due to an increase in stock compensation and an increase in headcount resulting from acquisitions. Increases in professional services and insurance, rent, advertising and marketing expenses, and travel expenses comprised the remainder of the increase. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization increased $4.7 million, or 39.9%, to $16.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $11.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. Amortization expense increased $4.3 million to $15.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $11.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2018 primarily due to greater amortization expense resulting from recent acquisitions, which was partially offset by lower amortization expense for historical acquisitions due to our accelerated method of amortization. Depreciation expense increased $0.4 million to $1.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $0.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration Change in fair value of contingent consideration to be paid in connection with acquisitions was a charge of $3.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 primarily due to the performance of some of our acquisitions exceeding our expectations. The change in fair value of contingent consideration for the year ended September 30, 2018 was a charge of $3.9 million. Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net, decreased $2.5 million, or 29.3%, to $6.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from $8.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. The decrease reflects a lower average amount of indebtedness outstanding and payment of all of the outstanding aggregate principal balance and accrued interest on the notes payable to the lenders under our Mezzanine Notes and unsecured notes payable to related and unrelated creditors in connection with the Reorganization Transactions in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability The change in fair value of our warrant liabilities corresponds to the value of the warrants issued in connection with our Mezzanine Notes (as defined below). The change in the fair value of the warrants corresponded with their exercise in June 2018 in conjunction with our IPO. The change in fair value of the warrant liabilities was a benefit of $8.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes decreased to a benefit of $0.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2019 from a provision of $0.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. The provision for income taxes consists primarily of provisions for state income taxes and, for certain subsidiaries of i3 Verticals, LLC which are corporations, provisions for federal income taxes. Our effective tax rate was (46)% for the year ended September 30, 2019. Our effective tax rate differs from the federal statutory rate because significant pre-tax losses related to the change in the fair value of contingent consideration. i3 Verticals, Inc. is subject to federal, state and local income taxes with respect to its allocable share of any taxable income of i3 Verticals, LLC and is taxed at the prevailing corporate tax rates. 57 Seasonality We have experienced in the past, and may continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues as a result of consumer and business spending patterns. Revenues during the first quarter of the calendar year, which is our second fiscal quarter, tend to decrease in comparison to the remaining three quarters of the calendar year on a same store basis. This decrease is due to the relatively higher number and amount of electronic payment transactions related to seasonal retail events, such as holiday and vacation spending in their second, third and fourth quarters of the calendar year. The number of business days in a month or quarter also may affect seasonal fluctuations. Revenue in our education vertical fluctuates with the school calendar. Revenue for our education customers is strongest in August, September, October, January and February, at the start of each semester, and generally weakens throughout the semester, with little revenue in the summer months of June and July. Operating expenses show less seasonal fluctuation, with the result that net income is subject to the same seasonal factors as our revenues. The growth in our business may have partially overshadowed seasonal trends to date, and seasonal impacts on our business may be more pronounced in the future. Furthermore, we are not able to predict the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic may have on the seasonality of our business. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically financed our operations (not including investments and acquisitions) and working capital through net cash from operating activities. As of September 30, 2020, we had $15.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and available borrowing capacity of $275.0 million under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, subject to the financial covenants. We usually minimize cash balances by making payments on our revolving credit facility to minimize borrowings and interest expense. As of September 30, 2020, we had borrowings outstanding of $0.0 million under the Senior Secured Credit Facility. Our primary cash needs are to fund working capital requirements, invest in our technology infrastructure, fund acquisitions and related contingent consideration, make scheduled principal and interest payments on our outstanding indebtedness and pay tax distributions to members. We historically have had positive cash flow provided by operations. Our plan for capital expenditures and future acquisitions for the upcoming fiscal year are consistently being re-evaluated as we navigate through the economic impact related to the COVID-19 pandemic. We will assess our plans for acquisition opportunities against our cash availability during the crisis to make the most strategic decisions for our business. We have the ability to pause or terminate much of our anticipated acquisition program should our financial position require it. We currently expect that our cash flow from operations, current cash and cash equivalents and available borrowing capacity under the Senior Secured Credit Facility will be sufficient to fund our operations and planned capital expenditures and to service our debt obligations for at least the next twelve months. On April 3, 2020, we announced certain proactive actions in response to the significant uncertainty around the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, which included temporarily furloughing a portion of our employees and a workforce reduction program that included the elimination of certain positions as well as a general reduction in headcount. The total number of employees impacted by the furlough and workforce reduction represented approximately 12% of our workforce. A portion of those furloughed have since returned to work. Our liquidity profile reflects our completed offering in February 2020 of an aggregate principal amount of $138.0 million in 1.0% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2025, with substantially all the proceeds being used to pay down outstanding borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, as well as our September 2020 Public Offering as described below under the heading Follow-on Offerings. During the year ended September 30, 2020, we repurchased $21.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the Exchangeable Notes for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $17.4 million. We recorded a loss on retirement of debt of $2.3 million due to the carrying value exceeding the fair value of the repurchased portion of the Exchangeable Notes at the dates of repurchases. We may elect from time to time to purchase our outstanding debt in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such debt repurchases will depend upon prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, applicable securities law and other factors. As amended on February 18, 2020 in connection with our offering of Exchangeable Notes, our Senior Secured Credit Facility requires us to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio not less than 3.00 to 1.00, a total leverage ratio not exceeding 5.00 to 1.00 and a consolidated senior secured leverage ratio not exceeding 3.25 to 1.00, provided that for each of the four fiscal quarters immediately following a qualified acquisition, the 58 total leverage ratio and the consolidated senior secured leverage ratio would increase by up to 0.25, subject to certain limitations. As of September 30, 2020, we were in compliance with these covenants with a consolidated interest coverage ratio, total leverage ratio and consolidated senior leverage ratio of 6.71x, 2.59x and 0.0x, respectively. Although we believe our liquidity position remains strong, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional funds, in the form of debt or equity, or to amend our Senior Secured Credit Facility on terms acceptable to us, if at all, even if we determined such actions were necessary in the future. Any material adverse change in client demand and our ability to retain clients, competitive market forces, or uncertainties caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as other factors listed under the heading Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements, and in our risk factors included herein could affect our ability to continue to fund our liquidity needs from business operations. Cash Flows The following table presents a summary of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the following comparative periods. Year Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Year Ended September 30, 2019 Year ended September 30, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 23,720 $ 26,597 Net cash used in investing activities $ (35,431) $ (143,728) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 29,112 $ 119,094 Cash Flow from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $2.9 million to $23.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $26.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities included a decrease of $1.5 million in net income for the year ended September 30, 2020, comparatively lower increases in liabilities for non-cash contingent consideration of $4.8 million and an increase in the benefit from deferred taxes of $2.6 million. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by adjustments to net income including increases to equity-based compensation of $4.3 million, amortization of the debt discount and issuance costs expense of $3.0 million and loss on the repurchase of Exchangeable Notes of $2.3 million. Operating assets and liabilities decreased $5.7 million, primarily driven by a $3.5 million decrease in contingent consideration paid in excess of original estimates, a $3.5 million increase in accounts receivable and a $2.0 million decrease in deferred revenue, partially offset by a $2.0 million increase in accounts payable and a $1.2 million decrease in other assets for the year ended September 30, 2020 compared to the year ended September 30, 2019. Cash Flow from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased $108.3 million to $35.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $143.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by a decrease of $109.3 million in cash used in acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and a decrease of $1.8 million in purchases of merchant portfolios and residual buyouts. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $2.1 million in expenditures for property and equipment and $0.7 million in expenditures for capitalized software for the year ended September 30, 2020 compared to the year ended September 30, 2019. 59 Cash Flow from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities decreased $90.0 million to $29.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $119.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2019. The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities was primarily the result of an increase in payments on the revolving credit facility of $261.4 million, payments for purchases of exchangeable senior note hedges of $28.7 million and payments for the repurchase of Exchangeable Notes of $17.4 million during the year ended September 30, 2020, a decrease in proceeds from issuance of Class A common stock sold in public offerings of $28.8 million, a decrease in proceeds from the revolving credit facility of $16.4 million and an increase in payments of debt issuance costs of $5.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 compared to the year ended September 30, 2019. The decrease in cash provided by financing activities is partially offset by proceeds from borrowings on exchangeable notes of $138.0 million and proceeds from the issuance of warrants of $14.7 million during the year ended September 30, 2020, as well as a decrease in payments for Common Units in i3 Verticals, LLC from certain Continuing Equity Owners in connection with public offerings of $79.1 million, a decrease in payments of notes payable to banks of $35.0 million and a decrease in payments for required distributions to members for tax obligations of $2.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2020 from the year ended September 30, 2019. Year Ended September 30, 2019 Compared to Year Ended September 30, 2018 For a discussion of the cash flows for the year ended September 30, 2019 compared to the year ended September 30, 2018, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 22, 2019. Senior Secured Credit Facility On May 9, 2019, we replaced our then existing credit facility (the 2017 Senior Secured Credit Facility) with a new Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with the guarantors and lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (the Senior Secured Credit Facility). For a discussion of our existing 2017 Senior Secured Credit Facility, which consisted of $40.0 million in term loans and a $110.0 million revolving line of credit, please refer to Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Senior Secured Credit Facility, as amended on February 18, 2020 in connection with our offering of Exchangeable Notes, provides for aggregate commitments of $275.0 million in the form of a senior secured revolving credit facility. The Senior Secured Credit Facility provides that we have the right to seek additional commitments to provide additional term loan facilities or additional revolving credit commitments in an aggregate principal amount up to $50.0 million so long as, among other things, after giving pro forma effect to the incurrence of such additional borrowings and any related transactions, our consolidated interest coverage ratio would not be less than 3.00 to 1.00, our total leverage ratio would not exceed 5.00 to 1.00 and our consolidated senior leverage ratio would not exceed 3.25 to 1.00, provided that for each of the four fiscal quarters immediately following a qualified acquisition, the total leverage ratio and the consolidated senior secured leverage ratio would increase by up to 0.25, subject to certain limitations. The provision of any such additional amounts under the additional term loan facilities or additional revolving credit commitments are subject to certain additional conditions and the receipt of certain additional commitments by existing or additional lenders. The lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facility are not under any obligation to provide any such additional term loan facilities or revolving credit commitments. The proceeds of the Senior Secured Credit Facility, together with proceeds from any additional amounts under the additional term loan facilities or additional revolving credit commitments, may only be used by us to (i) finance working capital, capital expenditures and other lawful corporate purposes, (ii) finance permitted acquisitions and (iii) to refinance certain existing indebtedness. Borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facility will be made, at our option, at the base rate or the Eurodollar rate, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The base rate is a fluctuating rate of interest per annum equal to the highest of (a) the federal funds rate plus of 1%, (b) the interest announced from time to time by Bank of America as its prime rate and (c) the Eurodollar rate plus 1%. The Eurodollar rate will be the rate of 60 interest per annum equal to LIBOR (based upon an interest period of one, two, three or six months or, under some circumstances, up to twelve months). The applicable margin is based upon our consolidated total leverage ratio, as reflected in the schedule below: Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio Commitment Fee Letter of Credit Fee Eurodollar Rate Loans Base Rate Loans > 3.00 to 1.0 0.30% 3.25% 3.25% 1.25% > 2.50 to 1.0 but 2.00 to 1.0 but < 2.50 to 1.0 0.20% 2.50% 2.50% 0.50% < 2.00 to 1.0 0.15% 2.25% 2.25% 0.25% In addition to paying interest on outstanding principal under the Senior Secured Credit Facility, we will be required to pay a commitment fee equal to the product of between 0.15% and 0.30% (the applicable percentage depending on our consolidated total leverage ratio as reflected in the schedule above) times the actual daily amount by which $275.0 million exceeds the total amount outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and available to be drawn under all outstanding letters of credit. We will be permitted to voluntarily reduce the unutilized portion of the commitment amount and repay outstanding loans under the Senior Secured Credit Facility, whether such amounts are issued under the Senior Secured Credit Facility or under the additional term loan facilities or additional revolving credit facilities, at any time without premium or penalty. In addition, if the total amount borrowed under the Senior Secured Credit Facility exceeds $275.0 million at any time, the Senior Secured Credit Facility requires us to prepay such excess outstanding amounts. All obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facility are unconditionally guaranteed by i3 Verticals, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and each of i3 Verticals, Inc.s existing and future direct and indirect material, wholly owned domestic restricted subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. The obligations are secured by first-priority security interests in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, i3 Verticals, Inc. and each subsidiary guarantor, in each case whether owned on the date of the initial borrowings or thereafter acquired. The Senior Secured Credit Facility places certain restrictions on the ability of us, i3 Verticals, Inc. and their restricted subsidiaries to, among other things, incur debt and liens; merge, consolidate or liquidate; dispose of assets; enter into hedging arrangements; make certain restricted payments; undertake transactions with affiliates; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; make certain investments; prepay or modify the terms of certain indebtedness; and modify the terms of certain organizational agreements. The Senior Secured Credit Facility contains customary events of default, including payment defaults, breaches of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, certain events of bankruptcy and insolvency, material judgments, certain ERISA events, invalidity of loan documents and certain changes in control. As of September 30, 2020, we were in compliance with these covenants with a consolidated interest coverage ratio, total leverage ratio and consolidated senior leverage ratio of 6.71x, 2.59x and 0.0x, respectively. Follow-on Offerings On June 10, 2019, we completed the June 2019 Secondary Public Offering of 5,165,527 shares of our Class A common stock, at a public offering price of $22.75 per share, which included a full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase 673,764 additional shares of Class A common stock from us. We received approximately $111.6 million of net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions, but before offering expenses. We used the net proceeds to purchase (1) 1,000,000 Common Units directly from i3 Verticals, LLC, and (2) 4,165,527 Common Units (including 673,764 Common Units due to the exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares in full) and an equivalent number of Class B common stock (which shares were then canceled) from certain Continuing Equity Owners, in each case at a price per Common Unit equal to the price per share paid by the underwriters for shares of our Class A common stock in the offering. i3 Verticals, LLC received $20.9 million in net proceeds from the sale of Common Units to us, which we used to repay 61 outstanding indebtedness. In connection with this offering, we recognized an additional deferred tax asset of $26.2 million related to the Tax Receivable Agreement and a corresponding liability of $22.2 million. On September 15, 2020, we completed a public offering (the September 2020 Public Offering) of 3,737,500 shares of our Class A common stock, at a public offering price of $23.50 per share, which included a full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase 487,500 additional shares of Class A common stock from us. We received approximately $83.4 million of net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions, but before offering expenses. We used the net proceeds to purchase (1) 3,250,000 Common Units directly from i3 Verticals, LLC, and (2) 487,500 Common Units pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares in full and an equivalent number of Class B common stock (which shares were then canceled) from certain Continuing Equity Owners, in each case at a price per Common Unit equal to the price per share paid by the underwriters for shares of our Class A common stock in the offering. i3 Verticals, LLC received $72.0 million in net proceeds from the sale of Common Units to the Company, which we used to repay outstanding indebtedness. In connection with this offering, we recognized an additional deferred tax asset of $3.0 million related to the Tax Receivable Agreement and a corresponding liability of $2.5 million. Exchangeable Notes On February 18, 2020, i3 Verticals, LLC issued $138.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 1.0% Exchangeable Senior Notes due February 15, 2025. The Exchangeable Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 1.0% per year, payable semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning on August 15, 2020. The Exchangeable Notes are exchangeable on the terms set forth in the Indenture into cash, shares of Class A common stock, or a combination thereof, at i3 Verticals, LLCs election. The Exchangeable Notes mature on February 15, 2025, unless earlier exchanged, redeemed or repurchased. We received approximately $132.8 million in net proceeds from the sale of the Exchangeable Notes, as determined by deducting estimated offering expenses paid to third-parties from the aggregate principal amount. i3 Verticals, LLC used a portion of the net proceeds of the Exchangeable Notes offering to pay down outstanding borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facility in connection with the effectiveness of the operative provisions of the Amendment and to pay the cost of the note hedge transactions. 62 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of September 30, 2020 related to leases and borrowings: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than 5 years (in thousands) Processing minimums (1) $ 9,247 $ 3,334 $ 5,463 $ 450 $ Facility leases 10,877 2,726 4,493 2,437 1,221 Loan to third party sales organization (2) 3,500 3,500 Senior Secured Credit Facility and related interest (3) 2,976 825 1,650 501 Exchangeable Notes and related interest (4) 122,119 1,170 2,340 118,609 Contingent consideration (5) 13,034 10,062 2,972 Total $ 161,753 $ 21,617 $ 16,918 $ 121,997 $ 1,221 __________________________ 1. We have non-exclusive agreements with several processors to provide us services related to transaction processing and transmittal, transaction authorization and data capture, and access to various reporting tools. Certain of these agreements require us to submit a minimum monthly number of transactions for processing. If we submit a number of transactions that is lower than the minimum, we are required to pay to the processor the fees it would have received if we had submitted the required minimum number of transactions. 2. We have committed to a loan to a third party sales organization in multiple increments, contingent upon the third party sales organization's achievement of certain financial metrics. The amount reflected in this table includes the maximum commitment for the loan. 3. We estimated interest payments through the maturity of our Senior Secured Credit Facility by applying the interest rate of 4.50% in effect on the outstanding balance as of September 30, 2020, plus the unused fee rate of 0.30% in effect as of September 30, 2020. 4. We calculated interest payments through the maturity of our Exchangeable Notes by applying the coupon interest rate of 1.00% on the principal balance as of September 30, 2020 of $138.0 million. 5. In connection with certain of our acquisitions, we may be obligated to pay the seller of the acquired entity certain amounts of contingent consideration as set forth in the relevant purchasing documents, whereby additional consideration may be due upon the achievement of certain specified financial performance targets. i3 Verticals, Inc. accounts for the fair values of such contingent payments in accordance with the Level 3 financial instrument fair value hierarchy at the close of each subsequent reporting period. The acquisition-date fair value of contingent consideration is valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. i3 Verticals, Inc. subsequently reassesses such fair value based on probability estimates with respect to the acquired entitys likelihood of achieving the respective financial performance targets. Potential payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are not reflected in this table. See Tax Receivable Agreement below. Tax Receivable Agreement We are a party to a Tax Receivable Agreement with i3 Verticals, LLC and each of the Continuing Equity Owners, as described in Note 10 of our consolidated financial statements. As a result of the Tax Receivable Agreement, we have been required to establish a liability in our consolidated financial statements. That liability, which will increase upon the redemptions or exchanges of Common Units for our Class A common stock, generally represents 85% of the estimated future tax benefits, if any, relating to the increase in tax basis associated with the Common Units we received as a result of the Reorganization Transactions and other redemptions or exchanges by holders of Common Units. If this election is made, the accelerated payment will be based on the present value of 100% of the estimated future tax benefits and, as a result, the associated liability reported on our consolidated financial statements may be increased. We expect that the payments required under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be substantial. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of redemptions or exchanges by the holders of Common Units, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the redemption or exchange, whether such redemptions or exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future and the tax rate then applicable as well as the portion of our payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement constituting imputed interest. We intend to fund the payment of the amounts due under the Tax Receivable Agreement out of the cash savings that we actually realize in respect of the attributes to which Tax Receivable Agreement relates. 63 As of September 30, 2020, the total amount due under the Tax Receivable Agreement was $27.6 million, and payments to the Continuing Equity Owners related to exchanges through September 30, 2020 will range from approximately $0 to $2.5 million per year and are expected to be paid over the next 25 years. The amounts recorded as of September 30, 2020, approximate the current estimate of expected tax savings and are subject to change after the filing of the Companys U.S. federal and state income tax returns. Future payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement with respect to subsequent exchanges would be in addition to these amounts. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting policies generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, goodwill and intangible assets, contingent consideration, and equity-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The accounting policies we believe to be most critical to understanding our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below. For a list of all significant accounting policies refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report. Emerging Growth Company Refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors for discussion of the reduced disclosure requirements and extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies, afforded to us by our status as an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), as modified by the JOBS Act. Acquisitions Business acquisitions have been recorded using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 805, Business Combinations (ASC 805), and, accordingly, the purchase price has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value as of the date of acquisition. Where relevant, the fair value of material contingent consideration included in an acquisition is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation. The fair value of merchant relationships and non-compete assets acquired is identified using the Income Approach. The fair value of trade names acquired is identified using the Relief from Royalty Method. For a discussion of the estimation methodology and the significance of various inputs, please see the subheading below titled Use of Estimates. The fair value of deferred revenue is identified using the Adjusted Fulfillment Cost Method. After the purchase price has been allocated, goodwill is recorded to the extent the total consideration paid for the acquisition, including the acquisition date fair value of contingent consideration, if any, exceeds the sum of the fair values of the separately identifiable acquired assets and assumed liabilities. Acquisition costs for business combinations are expensed when incurred and recorded in selling general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Acquisitions not meeting the accounting criteria to be accounted for as a business combination are accounted for as an asset acquisition. An asset acquisition is recorded at its purchase price, inclusive of acquisition costs, which is allocated among the acquired assets and assumed liabilities based upon their relative fair values at the date of acquisition. The operating results of an acquisition are included in our consolidated statements of operations from the date of such acquisition. Acquisitions completed during the year ended September 30, 2020 contributed $1.3 million and $0.3 million of revenue and net income, respectively, to the results in the consolidated statements of operations for the year then ended. 64 Goodwill In accordance with ASC 350, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other, we test goodwill for impairment for each reporting unit on an annual basis in the fourth quarter, or when events or circumstances indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying value. Our goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired in business combinations. The goodwill generated from the business combinations is primarily related to the value placed on the employee workforce and expected synergies. Judgment is involved in determining if an indicator or change in circumstances relating to impairment has occurred. Such changes may include, among others, a significant decline in expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, and unforeseen competition. No goodwill impairment charges were recognized during the years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019. We have the option of performing a qualitative assessment of impairment to determine whether any further quantitative testing for impairment is necessary. The option of whether or not to perform a qualitative assessment is made annually and may vary by reporting unit. If we determine not to perform the qualitative assessment or if we determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying value, then we perform a quantitative test for that reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the reporting units carrying value, including goodwill. Subsequent to the adoption on January 1, 2017 of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2017-04, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other: Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, if the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we recognize an impairment equal to the excess carrying value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. For a discussion of the estimation methodology, the qualitative factors considered when performing a qualitative assessment and the significance of various inputs, please see the subheading below titled Use of Estimates. As of our goodwill impairment test date for the year ended September 30, 2020, we have determined that we have five reporting units as of the date of the most recent annual good impairment test. For each of the years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, we performed a quantitative assessment for each reporting unit. We determined that none of the reporting units were impaired and fair values of all of our reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values at the assessment date. Income Taxes i3 Verticals, Inc. is taxed as a corporation and pays corporate federal, state and local taxes on income allocated to it from i3 Verticals, LLC based on i3 Verticals, Inc.'s economic interest in i3 Verticals, LLC. i3 Verticals, LLC's members, including i3 Verticals, Inc., are liable for federal, state and local income taxes based on their share of i3 Verticals, LLC's pass-through taxable income. i3 Verticals, LLC is not a taxable entity for federal income tax purposes, but is subject to and reports entity level tax in both Tennessee and Texas. In addition, certain subsidiaries of i3 Verticals, LLC are corporations that are subject to state and federal income taxes. The amount provided for state income taxes is based upon the amounts of current and deferred taxes payable or refundable at the date of the consolidated financial statements as a result of all events recognized in the financial statements as measured by the provisions of enacted tax laws. Under GAAP, a tax position is recognized as a benefit only if it is more likely than not that the tax position would be sustained in a tax examination, with a tax examination being presumed to occur. The amount recognized is the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized on examination. For tax positions not meeting the more likely than not test, no tax benefit is recorded. We report a liability for unrecognized tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We recognize interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of income tax expense. See additional discussion in Note 10. Valuation of Contingent Consideration On occasion, we may have acquisitions which include contingent consideration. Accounting for business combinations requires us to estimate the fair value of any contingent purchase consideration at the acquisition 65 date. For a discussion of the estimate methodology and the significance of various inputs, please see the subheading below titled Use of Estimates. Changes in estimates regarding the fair value contingent purchase consideration are reflected as adjustments to the related liability and recognized within operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. Short and long-term contingent liabilities are presented within accrued expenses and other current liabilities and other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, respectively. Revenue Recognition and Deferred Revenue For the year ended September 30, 2020, revenue is recognized as each performance obligation is satisfied, in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). We accrue for rights of refund, processing errors or penalties, or other related allowances based on historical experience. We utilized the portfolio approach practical expedient within ASC 606-10-10-4 Revenue from Contracts with CustomersObjectives and the significant financing component practical expedient within ASC 606-10-32-18 Revenue from Contracts with CustomersThe Existence of a Significant Financing Component in the Contract in performing the analysis. We adopted ASC 606 on October 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective method and applying the standard to all contracts not completed on the date of adoption. Results for the reporting period beginning October 1, 2019 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting practices under previous guidance. The majority of our revenue for the years ended September 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018 is derived from volume-based payment processing fees (discount fees) and other related fixed transaction or service fees. The remainder is comprised of sales of software licensing subscriptions, ongoing support, and other POS-related solutions we provide to our clients directly and through its processing bank relationships. Discount fees represent a percentage of the dollar amount of each credit or debit transaction processed or a specified per transaction amount, depending on the card type. We frequently enter into agreements with clients under which the client engages us to provide both payment authorization services and transaction settlement services for all of the cardholder transactions of the client, regardless of which issuing bank and card network to which the transaction relates. Our core performance obligations are to stand ready to provide continuous access to our payment authorization services and transaction settlement services in order to be able to process as many transactions as our clients require on a daily basis over the contract term. These services are stand ready obligations, as the timing and quantity of transactions to be processed is not determinable. Under a stand-ready obligation, our performance obligation is defined by each time increment rather than by the underlying activities satisfied over time based on days elapsed. Because the service of standing ready is substantially the same each day and has the same pattern of transfer to the client, we have determined that our stand-ready performance obligation comprises a series of distinct days of service. Discount fees are recognized each day based on the volume or transaction count at the time the merchants transactions are processed. We follow the requirements of ASC 606-10-55 Revenue from Contracts with CustomersPrincipal versus Agent Considerations , which states that the determination of whether a company should recognize revenue based on the gross amount billed to a client or the net amount retained is a matter of judgment that depends on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement. The determination of gross versus net recognition of revenue requires judgment that depends on whether we control the good or service before it is transferred to the merchant or whether we are acting as an agent of a third party. The assessment is provided separately for each performance obligation identified. Under our agreements, we incur interchange and network pass-through charges from the third-party card issuers and card networks, respectively, related to the provision of payment authorization services. We have determined that we are acting as an agent with respect to these payment authorization services, based on the following factors: (1) we have no discretion over which card issuing bank will be used to process a transaction and are unable to direct the activity of the merchant to another card issuing bank, and (2) interchange and card network rates are pre-established by the card issuers or card networks, and we have no latitude in determining these fees. Therefore, revenue allocated to the payment authorization performance obligation is presented net of interchange and card network fees paid to the card issuing banks and card networks, respectively, for the year ended September 30, 2020, subsequent to the adoption of ASC 606. With regards to our discount fees, generally, where we have control over merchant pricing, merchant portability, credit risk and ultimate responsibility for the merchant relationship, revenues are reported at the time of sale equal to the full amount of the discount charged to the merchant, less interchange and network fees. 66 Revenues generated from merchant portfolios where we do not have control over merchant pricing, liability for merchant losses or credit risk or rights of portability are reported net of interchange and network fees as well as third-party processing costs directly attributable to processing and bank sponsorship costs. Revenues are also derived from a variety of fixed transaction or service fees, including authorization fees, convenience fees, statement fees, annual fees, gateway fees, which are charged for accessing our payment and software solutions, and fees for other miscellaneous services, such as handling chargebacks. Revenues derived from service fees are recognized at the time the services are performed and there are no further performance obligations. Revenue from fixed transactions, which principally relates to the sale of equipment, is recognized upon transfer of ownership and delivery to the client, after which there are no further performance obligations. Revenues from sales of our software are recognized when the related performance obligations are satisfied. Sales of software licenses are categorized into one of two categories of intellectual property in accordance with ASC 606, functional or symbolic. The key distinction is whether the license represents a right to use (functional) or a right to access (symbolic) intellectual property. We generate sales of one-time software licenses, which is functional intellectual property. Revenue from functional intellectual property is recognized at a point in time, when delivered to the client. We also offer access to our software under software-as-a-service (SaaS) arrangements, which represent services arrangements. Revenue from SaaS arrangements is recognized over time, over the term of the agreement. Arrangements may contain multiple performance obligations, such as payment authorization services, transaction settlement services, hardware, software products, maintenance, and professional installation and training services. Revenues are allocated to each performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of each good or service. The selling price for a deliverable is based on standalone selling price, if available, the adjusted market assessment approach, estimated cost plus margin approach, or residual approach. We establish estimated selling price, based on the judgment of our management, considering internal factors such as margin objectives, pricing practices and controls, client segment pricing strategies and the product life cycle. In arrangements with multiple performance obligations, we determine allocation of the transaction price at inception of the arrangement and use the standalone selling prices for the majority of our revenue recognition. Revenues from sales of our combined hardware and software element are recognized when each performance obligation has been satisfied which has been determined to be upon the delivery of the product. Revenues derived from service fees are recognized at the time the services are performed and there are no further performance obligations. Our professional services, including training, installation, and repair services are recognized as revenue as these services are performed. Deferred revenue represents amounts billed to clients for services contracts. Payment is typically collected at the start of the contract term. The initial prepaid contract agreement balance is deferred. The balance is then recognized as the services are provided over the contract term. Deferred revenue that is expected to be recognized as revenue within one year is recorded as short-term deferred revenue and the remaining portion is recorded as other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. The terms for most of our contracts with a deferred revenue component are one year. Substantially all of our deferred revenue is anticipated to be recognized within the next year. Use of Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the value of purchase consideration paid and identifiable assets acquired and assumed in acquisitions, goodwill and intangible asset impairment review, warrant valuation, revenue recognition for contracts with multiple performance obligations, loss reserves, assumptions used in the calculation of equity-based compensation and in the calculation of income taxes, and certain tax assets and liabilities as well as the related valuation allowances. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on certain of our estimates, including goodwill and intangible assets, is uncertain at this time. If general economic conditions continue to deteriorate or remain uncertain for an extended period of time, the trading price of our common stock, 67 which has already declined in recent months, could decline further. If the stock price continues to be depressed or decreases further, it may cause a triggering event for impairment testing of fair-valued assets, including goodwill and intangible assets. Below is a summary of our critical accounting estimates for which the nature of managements assumptions are material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and for which the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Contingent Consideration in Acquisitions On occasion, we may have acquisitions that include contingent consideration. Accounting for business combinations requires us to estimate the fair value of any contingent purchase consideration at the acquisition date. Where relevant, the fair value of material contingent consideration included in an acquisition is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation. The contingent consideration is revalued each period until it is settled. Management reviews the historical and projected performance of each acquisition with contingent consideration and uses an income probability method to revalue the contingent consideration. The revaluation requires management to make certain assumptions and represent management's best estimate at the valuation date. The probabilities are determined based on a management review of the expected likelihood of triggering events that would cause a change in the contingent consideration paid. For example, if managements forecasted performance for an acquisition increased, we would have anticipated a higher probability of contingent consideration being paid on the acquisition and would have recorded additional losses from the change in fair value of contingent consideration. Conversely, if managements forecasted performance for an acquisition decreased, we would have anticipated a higher probability of contingent consideration being paid on the acquisition and would have recorded a gain from change in fair value of contingent consideration. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment using a fair value approach at least annually, absent some triggering event that would require an interim impairment assessment. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our goodwill impairment testing as of July 1 each year. In our goodwill impairment review, we use significant estimates and assumptions that include the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. Our assessment of qualitative factors involves significant judgments about expected future business performance and general market conditions. In a quantitative assessment, the fair value of each reporting unit is determined based on a combination of techniques, including the present value of future cash flows, applicable multiples of competitors and multiples from sales of like businesses, and requires management to make estimates and assumptions regarding discount rates, growth rates and our future long-term business plans. Changes in any of these estimates or assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and the associated goodwill impairment charge for each reporting unit. For example, if managements forecasted earnings decreased for a reporting unit, we may have recorded an impairment loss for that reporting unit. Warrant Valuation As of September 30, 2017 there were in the aggregate $1.4 million of warrants (the Mezzanine Warrants) outstanding and exercisable to purchase common units in i3 Verticals, LLC related to the issuance of the Mezzanine Notes. The Mezzanine Warrants were mandatorily redeemable and embodied a conditional obligation to redeem the instrument by a transfer of assets. The Mezzanine Warrants were remeasured at each reporting date through the settlement of the instrument and changes in value were reflected in earnings. We used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair market value of the Mezzanine Warrants at each reporting period. The option pricing model required the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the estimated enterprise value of the Company, expected term of the warrants, expected volatility, risk-free interest rates and discount for lack of marketability. To determine the fair value of the Mezzanine Warrants, we engaged an outside consultant to prepare a valuation of the unit price at each reporting date, using information 68 provided by management and information obtained from private and public sources. The fair market value of the warrants was $0.8 million as of September 30, 2017. We used an expected volatility based on the historical volatilities of a group of guideline companies and estimated a liquidity event in June 2018 to determine the term of the warrants. The risk-free interest rates were obtained from publicly available U.S. Treasury yield curve rates. The discount for lack of marketability was determined using the Finnerty Model. Based on our analysis, the most highly sensitive input in our option pricing model related to managements forecasted earnings. For example, if managements forecasted earnings increased, we would have recorded additional losses from the change in fair value of warrant liability. Conversely, if managements forecasted earnings decreased, we would have recorded a gain from change in fair value of warrant liability. Other inputs, such as expected volatility and the risk free interest rate, had a less material impact of the valuation of the warrant liability. The change in fair value of the warrant liabilities was an increase of $8.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. The fair market value of the warrants was $0.8 million as of September 30, 2017. On June 25, 2018, in conjunction with the Reorganization Transactions described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements, all existing Mezzanine Warrants were exercised for common units in i3 Verticals, LLC. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Mezzanine Warrants. Related Parties Transactions involving related parties cannot be presumed to be carried out at an arm's length- basis, as the requisite conditions of competitive, free-dealing markets may not exist. A description of related-party transactions is provided in Note 15 in our audited consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements. Effects of Inflation While inflation may impact our revenues and cost of services, we believe the effects of inflation, if any, on our results of operations and financial condition have not been significant. However, there can be no assurance that our results of operations and financial condition will not be materially impacted by inflation in the future.