Managements Discussion and Analysis about Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations. At December 31, 2016, the company had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. See the table on page 70 for the companys contractual obligations, and note M, Contingencies and Commitments, on page 129, for detailed information about the companys guarantees, financial commitments and indemnification arrangements. The company does not have retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities or other material off-balance sheet interests or instruments. Critical Accounting Estimates The application of GAAP requires the company to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect its reported financial condition. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that the company considers to be the most critical to its financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both (a) the nature of the estimate or assumption is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimate and assumption is material to the companys financial condition. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of the companys Board of Directors. The companys significant accounting policies are described in note A, Significant Accounting Policies, on pages 90 to 99. A quantitative sensitivity analysis is provided where that information is reasonably available, can be reliably estimated and provides material information to investors. The amounts used to assess sensitivity (e.g., 1 percent, 10 percent, etc.) are included to allow users of the Annual Report to understand a general direction cause and effect of changes in the estimates and do not represent managements predictions of variability. For all of these estimates, it should be noted that future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted, and estimates require regular review and adjustment. Pension Assumptions For the companys defined benefit pension plans, the measurement of the benefit obligation to employees and net periodic pension (income)/cost requires the use of certain assumptions, including, among others, estimates of discount rates and expected return on plan assets. Changes in the discount rate assumptions would impact the (gain)/loss amortization and interest cost components of the net periodic pension (income)/cost calculation and the projected benefit obligation (PBO). The company decreased the discount rate assumption for the IBM Personal Pension Plan (PPP), a U.S.-based defined benefit plan, by 20 basis points to 3.80 percent on December 31, 2016. This change will increase pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2017 by an estimated $61 million. If the discount rate assumption for the PPP had increased by 20 basis points on December 31, 2016, pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2017 would have decreased by an estimated $63 million. Changes in the discount rate assumptions would impact the PBO which, in turn, may impact the companys funding decisions if the PBO exceeds plan assets. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the discount rate would cause a corresponding decrease or increase, respectively, in the PPPs PBO of an estimated $1.2 billion based upon December 31, 2016 data. 71 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The expected long-term return on plan assets assumption is used in calculating the net periodic pension (income)/cost. Expected returns on plan assets are calculated based on the market-related value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets systematically over a five-year period in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension (income)/cost. The differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected long-term return on plan assets are recognized over five years in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension (income)/cost and also as a component of actuarial (gains)/losses, which are recognized over the service lives or life expectancy of the participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets, as provided by accounting standards. To the extent the outlook for long-term returns changes such that management changes its expected long-term return on plan assets assumption, each 50 basis point increase or decrease in the expected long-term return on PPP plan assets assumption would have an estimated decrease or increase, respectively, of $263 million on the following years pre-tax net periodic pension (income)/cost (based upon the PPPs plan assets at December 31, 2016 and assuming no contributions are made in 2017). The company may voluntarily make contributions or be required, by law, to make contributions to its pension plans. Actual results that differ from the estimates may result in more or less future company funding into the pension plans than is planned by management. Impacts of these types of changes on the companys pension plans in other countries worldwide would vary depending upon the status of each respective plan. In addition to the above, the company evaluates other pension assumptions involving demographic factors, such as retirement age and mortality, and updates these assumptions to reflect experience and expectations for the future. Actual results in any given year can differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other factors. For additional information on the companys pension plans and the development of these assumptions, see Note S, Retirement-Related Benefits, on pages 143 and 144. Revenue Recognition Application of the various accounting principles in GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires the company to make judgments and estimates. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple-deliverable arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting. Other significant judgments include determining whether IBM or a reseller is acting as the principal in a transaction and whether separate contracts are considered part of one arrangement. Revenue recognition is also impacted by the companys ability to estimate sales incentives, expected returns and collectibility. The company considers various factors, including a review of specific transactions, the creditworthiness of the customers, historical experience and market and economic conditions when calculating these provisions and allowances. Evaluations are conducted each quarter to assess the adequacy of the estimates. If these estimates were changed by 10 percent in 2016, net income would have been impacted by $79 million (excluding Global Financing receivables). Costs to Complete Service Contracts The company enters into numerous service contracts through its services businesses. During the contractual period, revenue, cost and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each contract, especially contracts for which the company uses the percentage-of-completion (POC) method of accounting. If at any time these estimates indicate the POC contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately in cost. The company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its POC-based services contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates require updating. Key factors reviewed by the company to estimate the future costs to complete each contract are future labor costs, future product costs and expected productivity efficiencies. Contract loss provisions recorded as a component of other accrued expenses and liabilities were $13 million and $12 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Income Taxes The company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the company recognizes tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite the companys belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. The company believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its assessment of many factors, including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions, and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that new information becomes available which causes the company to change its judgment regarding the adequacy of existing tax liabilities, such changes to tax liabilities will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. In the event that the company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the company will adjust its valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. 72 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The consolidated provision for income taxes will change period to period based on nonrecurring events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, the timing and amount of foreign dividend repatriation, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies. To the extent that the provision for income taxes increases/ decreases by 1 percent of income from continuing operations before income taxes, consolidated net income would have decreased/improved by $123 million in 2016. Valuation of Assets The application of business combination and impairment accounting requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires the company to estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated and amortized from goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. The companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. Valuation of Goodwill The company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. In 2015, the company elected to perform the first step of the quantitative test to compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value instead of first conducting a qualitative assessment. In 2016, the company resumed the assessment of qualitative risk factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The company assesses qualitative factors in each of its reporting units that carry goodwill including relevant events and circumstances that affect the fair value of reporting units. Examples include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic, industry and market conditions; as well as other individual factors such as: A loss of key personnel; A significant adverse shift in the operating environment of the reporting unit such as unanticipated competition; A significant pending litigation; A more likely than not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of; and An adverse action or assessment by a regulator. The company assesses these qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test.This quantitative test is required only if the company concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting units fair value is less than its carrying amount. In the fourth quarter, the company performed its annual goodwill impairment analysis.The qualitative assessment illustrated evidence of a potential impairment triggering event as a result of the financial performance of the Systems reporting unit. The quantitative analysis resulted in no impairment as the reporting units estimated fair value exceeded the carrying amount by over 100 percent. Loss Contingencies The company is currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. At least quarterly, the company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, the company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the company reassesses the potential liability related to its pending claims and litigation, and may revise its estimates. These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the companys results of operations and financial position. Global Financing Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses The Global Financing business reviews its financing receivables portfolio at least quarterly in order to assess collectibility. A description of the methods used by management to estimate the amount of uncollectible receivables is included in note A, Significant Accounting Policies, on page 98. Factors that could result in actual receivable losses that are materially different from the estimated reserve include sharp changes in the economy, or a significant change in the economic health of a particular client that represents a concentration in Global Financings receivables portfolio. To the extent that actual collectibility differs from managements estimates currently provided for by 10 percent, Global Financings segment pre-tax income and the companys income from continuing operations before income taxes would be higher or lower by an estimated $44 million depending upon whether the actual collectibility was better or worse, respectively, than the estimates. Residual Value Residual value represents the estimated fair value of equipment under lease as of the end of the lease. Residual value estimates impact the determination of whether a lease is classified as operating or capital. Global Financing estimates the future fair value of leased equipment by using historical models, analyzing the current market for new and used equipment, and obtaining forward-looking product information such as marketing plans 73 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies and technological innovations. Residual value estimates are periodically reviewed and other than temporary declines in estimated future residual values are recognized upon identification. Anticipated increases in future residual values are not recognized until the equipment is remarketed. Factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from the estimates include significant changes in the used-equipment market brought on by unforeseen changes in technology innovations and any resulting changes in the useful lives of used equipment. To the extent that actual residual value recovery is lower than managements estimates by 10 percent, Global Financings segment pre-tax income and the companys income from continuing operations before income taxes for 2016 would have been lower by an estimated $72 million. If the actual residual value recovery is higher than managements estimates, the increase in income will be realized at the end of lease when the equipment is remarketed. Currency Rate Fluctuations Changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar affect the companys financial results and financial position. At December 31, 2016, currency changes resulted in assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into less dollars than at year-end 2015. The company uses financial hedging instruments to limit specific currency risks related to financing transactions and other foreign currency-based transactions. During periods of sustained movements in currency, the marketplace and competition adjust to the changing rates. For example, when pricing offerings in the marketplace, the company may use some of the advantage from a weakening U.S. dollar to improve its position competitively, and price more aggressively to win the business, essentially passing on a portion of the currency advantage to its customers. Competition will frequently take the same action. Consequently, the company believes that some of the currency-based changes in cost impact the prices charged to clients. The company also maintains currency hedging programs for cash management purposes which temporarily mitigate, but do not eliminate, the volatility of currency impacts on the companys financial results. The company translates revenue, cost and expense in its non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period. References to adjusted for currency or constant currency reflect adjustments based upon a simple mathematical formula. However, this constant currency methodology that the company utilizes to disclose this information does not incorporate any operational actions that management may take in reaction to fluctuating currency rates. Currency movements impacted the companys year-to-year revenue and earnings per share growth in 2016. Based on the currency rate movements in 2016, total revenue decreased 2.2 percent as reported and 1.6 percent at constant currency versus 2015. On an income from continuing operations before income taxes basis, these translation impacts offset by the net impact of hedging activities resulted in a theoretical maximum (assuming no pricing or sourcing actions) increase of approximately $125 million in 2016, on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $150 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The same mathematical exercise resulted in a decrease of approximately $900 million in 2015 on an as-reported basis and a decrease of approximately $1,000 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company views these amounts as a theoretical maximum impact to its as-reported financial results. Considering the operational responses mentioned above, movements of exchange rates, and the nature and timing of hedging instruments, it is difficult to predict future currency impacts on any particular period, but the company believes it could be substantially less than the theoretical maximum given the competitive pressure in the marketplace. For non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, translation adjustments are reflected in results of operations. Generally, the company manages currency risk in these entities by linking prices and contracts to U.S. dollars. The company continues to monitor the economic conditions in Venezuela. In mid-February 2016, changes to the currency exchange systems were announced which eliminated the SICAD exchange rate and replaced the SIMADI rate with DICOM, which is expected to be a floating exchange rate. The company recorded a pre-tax loss of $43 million in the first quarter of 2016 in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings as a result of the elimination of SICAD and devaluation of the new exchange. The system for currency exchange in Venezuela has remained constant through the fourth quarter and the company continued to use the SIMADI rate since the DICOM rate had not been instrumented by the authorities. Total pre-tax loss for 2016 was $48 million. The companys net assets denominated in local currency were $11 million at December 31, 2016. The companys operations in Venezuela comprised less than 1 percent of total 2016, 2015 and 2014 revenue, respectively. Market Risk In the normal course of business, the financial position of the company is routinely subject to a variety of risks. In addition to the market risk associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, other examples of risk include collectibility of accounts receivable and recoverability of residual values on leased assets. The company regularly assesses these risks and has established policies and business practices to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. As a result, the company does not anticipate any material losses from these risks. The companys debt, in support of the Global Financing business and the geographic breadth of the companys operations, contains an element of market risk from changes in interest and currency rates. The company manages this risk, in part, through the use of a variety of financial instruments including derivatives, as described in note D, Financial InstrumentsDerivative Financial Instruments, on pages 110 through 114. 74 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies To meet disclosure requirements, the company performs a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair values of the companys debt and other financial instruments. The financial instruments that are included in the sensitivity analysis are comprised of the companys cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, short-term and long-term loans, commercial financing and installment payment receivables, investments, long-term and short-term debt and derivative financial instruments. The companys derivative financial instruments generally include interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. To perform the sensitivity analysis, the company assesses the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates on market-sensitive instruments. The market values for interest and foreign currency exchange risk are computed based on the present value of future cash flows as affected by the changes in rates that are attributable to the market risk being measured. The discount rates used for the present value computations were selected based on market interest and foreign currency exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2016 and 2015. The differences in this comparison are the hypothetical gains or losses associated with each type of risk. Information provided by the sensitivity analysis does not necessarily represent the actual changes in fair value that the company would incur under normal market conditions because, due to practical limitations, all variables other than the specific market risk factor are held constant. In addition, the results of the model are constrained by the fact that certain items are specifically excluded from the analysis, while the financial instruments relating to the financing or hedging of those items are included by definition. Excluded items include short-term and long-term receivables from sales-type and direct financing leases, forecasted foreign currency cash flows and the companys net investment in foreign operations. As a consequence, reported changes in the values of some of the financial instruments impacting the results of the sensitivity analysis are not matched with the offsetting changes in the values of the items that those instruments are designed to finance or hedge. The results of the sensitivity analysis at December 31, 2016 and 2015, are as follows: Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2016, a 10 percent decrease in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in a decrease in the fair value of the companys financial instruments of $147 million as compared with a decrease of $69 million at December 31, 2015. A 10 percent increase in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in an increase in the fair value of the companys financial instruments of $142 million as compared to an increase of $66 million at December 31, 2015. Changes in the relative sensitivity of the fair value of the companys financial instrument portfolio for these theoretical changes in the level of interest rates are primarily driven by changes in the companys debt maturities, interest rate profile and amount. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk At December 31, 2016, a 10 percent weaker U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other variables held constant, would result in a decrease in the fair value of the companys financial instruments of $132 million as compared with a decrease of $74 million at December 31, 2015. Conversely, a 10 percent stronger U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase in the fair value of the companys financial instruments of $132 million compared with an increase of $74 million at December 31, 2015. Financing Risks See the Description of Business on page 34 for a discussion of the financing risks associated with the Global Financing business and managements actions to mitigate such risks. Cybersecurity The companys approach to cybersecurity draws on the depth and breadth of its global capabilities, both in terms of its offerings to clients and its internal approaches to risk management. The company has commercial solutions that deliver identity and access management, data security, application security, network security and endpoint security. IBMs solutions include security intelligence, analytics and forensic tools that can collect information on customer IT security events and vulnerabilities and provide detailed information to customers about potential threats and security posture. The companys services businesses offer professional solutions for security from assessment and incident response to deployment and resource augmentation. In addition, the company offers managed and outsourced security solutions from multiple security operations centers around the world. Finally, security is embedded in a multitude of IBM offerings through secure engineering processes and by critical functions (encryption, access control, etc.) in servers, storage, software, service, and other solutions. From an enterprise perspective, IBM implements a multi-faceted risk-management approach to identify and address cybersecurity risks. The company has established policies and procedures that provide the foundation upon which IBMs infrastructure and data are managed. IBM performs ongoing assessments regarding its technical controls and its methods for identifying emerging risks related to cybersecurity. The company uses a layered approach with overlapping controls to defend against cybersecurity attacks and threats on networks, end-user devices, servers, applications and cloud solutions. The company also has a global incident response process to respond to cybersecurity threats. In addition, the company utilizes a combination of online training, educational tools, social media and other awareness initiatives to foster a culture of security awareness and responsibility among its workforce. 75 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Employees and Related Workforce (In thousands) For the year ended December 31: 2016 IBM/wholly owned subsidiaries 380.3 Less-than-wholly owned subsidiaries 9.6 Complementary 24.5 As a globally integrated enterprise, the company operates in more than 175 countries and is continuing to shift its business to the higher value segments of enterprise IT. The company continues to remix its skills and people needs to match the best opportunities in the marketplace. The complementary workforce is an approximation of equivalent full-time employees hired under temporary, part-time and limited-term employment arrangements to meet specific business needs in a flexible and cost-effective manner. GLOBAL FINANCING Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as a stand-alone entity. In 2016, the Global Financing business remained focused on its core competenciesproviding IT financing to the companys clients and business partners. For the year, Global Financing delivered external revenue of $1,692 million and total revenue of $3,494 million. Total pre-tax income of $1,656 million decreased 29.9 percent compared to 2015 and return on equity was 30.6 percent. In addition to the overall health of the economy and its impact on corporate IT budgets, key drivers of Global Financings results are interest rates and originations. Interest rates directly impact Global Financings business by increasing or decreasing both financing revenue and the associated borrowing costs. Originations, which determine the asset base of Global Financings annuity-like business, are impacted by IBMs non-Global Financing sales and services volumes and Global Financings participation rates. Participation rates are the propensity of IBMs clients to finance their transactions through Global Financing in lieu of paying IBM up-front cash or financing through a third party. Results of Operations ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 External revenue $ 1,692 $ 1,840 $ 2,034 Internal revenue 1,802 2,637 2,488 Total revenue 3,494 4,477 4,522 Cost 1,146 1,412 1,428 Gross profit $ 2,348 $ 3,065 $ 3,094 Gross profit margin 67.2 % 68.5 % 68.4 % Pre-tax income $ 1,656 $ 2,364 $ 2,189 After-tax income* $ 1,126 $ 1,572 $ 1,462 Return on equity* 30.6 % 41.5 % 36.8 % * See page 80 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculation. Total revenue in 2016 decreased $983 million versus 2015 as a result of: A decline in external revenue of 8.0 percent (down 6.9 percent adjusted for currency), due to a decrease in financing revenue (down 11.2 percent to $1,231 million), partially offset by an increase in used equipment sales revenue (up 1.6 percent to $461 million); and A decline in internal revenue of 31.7 percent, due to decreases in used equipment sales revenue (down 35.5 percent to $1,486 million) and financing revenue (down 5.2 percent to $316 million). The decrease in external financing revenue was due to lower asset yields and a decrease in average asset balance, as well as a decline in remarketing lease revenue. The decrease in internal financing revenue was primarily due to lower asset yields, partially offset by an increase in average asset balance. Global Financing gross profit decreased 23.4 percent in 2016 compared to 2015, due to decreases in used equipment sales gross profit and financing gross profit. The gross profit margin declined 1.3 points compared to 2015 due to a decrease in equipment sales margin, partially offset by an increase in financing margin. 76 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Total revenue in 2015 decreased $45 million versus 2014 as a result of: A decrease in external revenue of 9.5 percent (up 1.5 percent adjusted for currency), driven by decreases in financing revenue (down 10.2 percent to $1,386 million) and used equipment sales revenue (down 7.6 percent to $454 million); partially offset by An increase in internal revenue of 6.0 percent driven by an increase in used equipment sales revenue (up 10.7 percent to $2,303 million); partially offset by a decrease in financing revenue (down 18.3 percent to $334 million). The decrease in external and internal financing revenue was primarily due to decreases in the average asset balance and yields, as well as a decrease in remarketing lease revenue. Global Financing gross profit decreased 0.9 percent compared to 2014 due to a decrease in financing gross profit, partially offset by an increase in used equipment sales gross profit. The gross profit margin was flat compared to 2014 with an increase in equipment sales margin, offset by a shift in mix away from higher margin financing and a decrease in financing margin. Global Financing pre-tax income decreased 29.9 percent in 2016 versus 2015, following an increase of 8.0 percent in 2015 versus 2014. The decrease in 2016 was driven by a decrease in gross profit ($717 million) and an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses ($66 million), partially offset by a decrease in financing receivables provisions ($75 million). The increase in 2015 was driven by decreases in selling, general and administrative expenses ($107 million) and financing receivables provisions ($96 million); partially offset by the decrease in gross profit ($29 million). The decrease in financing receivable provisions in 2016 was due to lower specific reserve requirements in China, partially offset by higher reserves in Brazil in the current year. At December 31, 2016, the overall allowance for credit losses coverage rate was 1.6 percent, a decrease of 54 basis points year over year primarily due to a write-off of previously reserved receivables. The decrease in return on equity from 2015 to 2016 was driven by the decrease in net income, partially offset by a lower average equity balance. The increase in return on equity from 2014 to 2015 was driven by the increase in net income and a lower average equity balance. Financial Condition Balance Sheet ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,844 $ 1,555 Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases 6,893 7,594 Equipment under operating leases external clients (1) 548 605 Client loans 11,478 12,525 Total client financing assets 18,920 20,725 Commercial financing receivables 9,700 8,948 Intercompany financing receivables (2) (3) 4,959 4,245 Other receivables 196 308 Other assets 872 378 Total assets $ 36,492 $ 36,157 Intercompany payables (2) $ 2,189 $ 3,089 Debt (4) 27,859 27,205 Other liabilities 2,631 2,134 Total liabilities 32,679 32,428 Total equity 3,812 3,729 Total liabilities and equity $ 36,492 $ 36,157 (1) Includes intercompany mark-up, priced on an arms-length basis, on products purchased from the companys product divisions which is eliminated in IBMs consolidated results (2) Entire amount eliminated for purposes of IBMs consolidated results and therefore does not appear on page 86 (3) These assets, along with all other financing assets in this table, are leveraged at the value in the table using Global Financing debt. (4) Global Financing debt is comprised of intercompany loans and external debt. A portion of Global Financing debt is in support of the companys internal business, or related to intercompany mark-up embedded in the Global Financing assets. 77 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Sources and Uses of Funds The primary use of funds in Global Financing is to originate client and commercial financing assets. Client financing assets for end users consist primarily of IBM systems, software and services, but also include OEM equipment, software and services to meet IBM clients total solutions requirements. Client financing assets are primarily sales-type, direct financing and operating leases for systems products, as well as loans and installment payment plans for systems, software and services with terms up to seven years. Global Financings client loans and installment payment plans are primarily for software and services and are unsecured. These agreements are subjected to credit analysis to evaluate the associated risk and, when deemed necessary, actions are taken to mitigate risks, which include covenants to protect against credit deterioration during the life of the obligation. Commercial financing receivables arise primarily from inventory and accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. Payment terms for inventory financing and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30 to 90 days. These short-term receivables are primarily unsecured and are also subjected to additional credit analysis in order to evaluate the associated risk. In addition to the actions previously described, the company has a long-standing practice of taking mitigation actions, in certain circumstances, to transfer credit risk to third parties, including credit insurance, financial guarantees, non-recourse borrowings, transfer of receivables recorded as true sale in accordance with accounting guidance or sales of equipment under operating lease. At December 31, 2016, substantially all financing assets were IT related assets, and approximately 52 percent of the total external portfolio was with investment grade clients with no direct exposure to consumers. The reduction in investment grade year to year (3 points) was driven primarily by rating changes within the existing portfolio, not by changing the companys approach to the market. This investment grade percentage is based on credit ratings of the companies in the portfolio. Additionally, as noted above, the company takes actions to transfer exposure to third parties. On that basis, the investment grade content would increase by 14 points to 66 percent, also a reduction of 3 points year to year. Originations The following are total financing originations: ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Client financing $ 11,703 $ 14,444 $ 15,099 Commercial financing 42,666 40,571 43,664 Total $ 54,370 $ 55,015 $ 58,762 In 2016, cash collection of client financing assets exceeded new financing originations, while new financing originations of commercial financing exceeded collections. This resulted in a net decline in financing assets from December 2015. The decrease in originations in 2016 versus 2015, as well as the decrease in originations in 2015 versus 2014, was due to declining volumes. Internal loan financing with Technology Services & Cloud Platforms is executed under a loan facility and is not considered originations. Cash generated by Global Financing in 2016 was deployed to pay intercompany payables and dividends to IBM as well as external payables to business partners and OEM suppliers. Global Financing Receivables and Allowances The following table presents external financing receivables excluding residual values, and the allowance for credit losses: ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 Gross financing receivables $ 28,043 $ 29,086 Specific allowance for credit losses 335 517 Unallocated allowance for credit losses 103 93 Total allowance for credit losses 438 610 Net financing receivables $ 27,605 $ 28,475 Allowance for credit losses coverage 1.6 % 2.1 % Roll Forward of Global Financing Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses ($ in millions) January 1, Allowance Additions/ December 31, 2016 Used* (Reductions) Other** 2016 $ 610 $ (236 ) $ 69 $ (5 ) $ 438 * Represents reserved receivables, net of recoveries, that were written off during the period ** Primarily represents translation adjustments 78 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The percentage of Global Financing receivables reserved was 1.6 percent at December 31, 2016, and 2.1 percent at December 31, 2015. In the fourth quarter of 2016, write-offs of $188 million of receivables previously reserved, primarily in China, was the primary driver of the 35 percent reduction in the specific allowance, from $517 million at December 31, 2015, to $335 million at December 31, 2016. See note F, Financing Receivables on pages 114 to 118 for additional information. Unallocated reserves increased 10 percent from $93 million at December 31, 2015, to $103 million at December 31, 2016, due to higher general reserve requirements in Brazil. Global Financings bad debt expense was $69 million for 2016, compared to $144 million for 2015. The year-to-year decrease in bad debt expense was due to lower specific reserve requirements in China, partially offset by higher reserve requirements in Brazil in the current year. Residual Value Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio. Global Financing optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment, or used equipment purchased externally. These sales represented 55.7 percent and 61.6 percent of Global Financings revenue in 2016 and 2015, respectively. The decrease was due to a lower volume of used equipment sales for internal transactions. The gross profit margins on total equipment sales were 60.5 percent and 66.0 percent in 2016 and 2015, respectively. The decrease in the gross profit margin was primarily driven by a shift in mix away from higher margin internal equipment sales. The table below presents the recorded amount of unguaranteed residual value for sales-type, direct financing and operating leases at December 31, 2016 and 2015. In addition, the table presents the residual value as a percentage of the related original amount financed and a run out of when the unguaranteed residual value assigned to equipment on leases at December 31, 2016 is expected to be returned to the company. In addition to the unguaranteed residual value, on a limited basis, Global Financing will obtain guarantees of the future value of the equipment to be returned at end of lease. While primarily focused on IBM products, guarantees are also obtained for certain OEM products. These third-party guarantees are included in minimum lease payments as provided for by accounting standards in the determination of lease classifications for the covered equipment and provide protection against risk of loss arising from declines in equipment values for these assets. The residual value guarantee increases the minimum lease payments that are utilized in determining the classification of a lease as a sales-type lease, direct financing lease or operating lease. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of sales-type leases were $329 million and $811 million for the financing transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. In 2016, the residual value guarantee program resulted in the company recognizing approximately $220 million of revenue that would otherwise have been recognized in future periods as operating lease revenue. If the company had chosen to not participate in a residual value guarantee program in 2016 and prior years, the 2016 impact would be substantially mitigated by the effect of prior year asset values being recognized as operating lease revenue in the current year. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of direct financing leases were $169 million and $185 million for the financing transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The associated aggregate guaranteed future values at the scheduled end of lease were $19 million and $54 million for the financing transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The cost of guarantees was $2 million and $5 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Unguaranteed Residual Value ($ in millions) Total Estimated Run Out of 2016 Balance 2020 and At December 31: 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Beyond Sales-type and direct financing leases $ 645 $ 585 $ 110 $ 167 $ 187 $ 121 Operating leases 144 140 50 42 33 15 Total unguaranteed residual value $ 789 $ 725 $ 160 $ 209 $ 220 $ 136 Related original amount financed $ 14,223 $ 12,845 Percentage 5.6 % 5.6 % 79 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Debt At December 31: 2016 2015 Debt-to-equity ratio 7.3 x 7.3 x The debt used to fund Global Financing assets is composed of intercompany loans and external debt. Total debt changes generally correspond with the level of client and commercial financing receivables, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in intercompany and external payables and the change in intercompany investment from IBM. The terms of the intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term and currency underlying the financing receivable and are based on arms-length pricing. Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the companys external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. As previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as a stand-alone entity, and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting Global Financings external client and internal business is included in the Global Financing Results of Operations on page 76 and in note T, Segment Information, on pages 150 to 154. In the companys Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global Financings internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense. The following table provides additional information on total company debt. In this table, intercompany activity includes internal loans and leases at arms-length pricing in support of long-term services contracts and other internal activity. The company believes these assets should be appropriately leveraged in line with the overall Global Financing business model. ($ in millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Global Financing Segment $ 27,859 $ 27,205 Debt to support external clients $ 24,034 $ 23,934 Debt to support internal clients 3,825 3,271 Non-Global Financing Segments 14,309 12,684 Debt supporting operations 18,134 15,955 Intercompany activity (3,825 ) (3,271 ) Total company debt $ 42,169 $ 39,890 Liquidity and Capital Resources Global Financing is a segment of the company, and therefore is supported by the companys overall liquidity position and access to capital markets. Cash generated by Global Financing was deployed to pay dividends to the company in order to maintain an appropriate debt-to-equity ratio. Return on Equity ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 Numerator Global Financing after-tax income (1) * $ 1,126 $ 1,572 Denominator Average Global Financing equity (2) ** $ 3,680 $ 3,785 Global Financing return on equity (1) /(2) 30.6 % 41.5 % * Calculated based upon an estimated tax rate principally based on Global Financings geographic mix of earnings as IBMs provision for income taxes is determined on a consolidated basis ** Average of the ending equity for Global Financing for the last five quarters 80 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Looking Forward Global Financings financial position provides flexibility and funding capacity which enables the company to be well positioned in the current environment. Global Financings assets and new financing volumes are IBM and OEM products and services financed to the companys clients and business partners, and substantially all financing assets are IT related assets which provide a stable base of business for future growth. Global Financings offerings are competitive and available to clients as a result of the companys borrowing cost and access to the capital markets. Overall, Global Financings originations will be dependent upon the demand for IT products and services as well as client participation rates. IBM continues to access both the short-term commercial paper market and the medium- and long-term debt markets. A protracted period where IBM could not access the capital markets would likely lead to a slowdown in originations. As part of its transformation, the company changed the structure of its financing business in January 2017 to drive operational benefits. The client and commercial financing businesses have been reorganized as a wholly owned subsidiary, IBM Credit LLC. This will drive operational benefits by consolidating the operations of the financing business. Debt will be issued directly out of the new entity, and the new entity is expected to be able to access the capital markets later in 2017. The financing business expects to increase its leverage from approximately 7:1 to 9:1, which represents an increase of approximately $600 million in Global Financing debt. The Global Financing segment remains unchanged, and will continue to include the client and commercial financing businesses, as well as the hardware remanufacturing and remarketing business. Interest rates and the overall economy (including currency fluctuations) will have an effect on both revenue and gross profit. The companys interest rate risk management policy, however, combined with the Global Financing pricing strategy should mitigate gross margin erosion due to changes in interest rates. The economy could impact the credit quality of the Global Financing receivables portfolio and therefore the level of provision for credit losses. Global Financing will continue to apply rigorous credit policies in both the origination of new business and the evaluation of the existing portfolio and will take risk mitigation actions when necessary. As previously discussed, Global Financing has historically been able to manage residual value risk both through insight into the companys product cycles, as well as through its remarketing business. Global Financing has policies in place to manage each of the key risks involved in financing. These policies, combined with product and client knowledge, should allow for the prudent management of the business going forward, even during periods of uncertainty with respect to the global economy. 81 Report of Management International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Management Responsibility for Financial Information Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the financial information presented in this Annual Report rests with IBM management. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, applying certain estimates and judgments as required. IBM maintains an effective internal control structure. It consists, in part, of organizational arrangements with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority, and comprehensive systems and control procedures. An important element of the control environment is an ongoing internal audit program. Our system also contains self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies as they are identified. To assure the effective administration of internal controls, we carefully select and train our employees, develop and disseminate written policies and procedures, provide appropriate communication channels and foster an environment conducive to the effective functioning of controls. We believe that it is essential for the company to conduct its business affairs in accordance with the highest ethical standards, as set forth in the IBM Business Conduct Guidelines. These guidelines, translated into numerous languages, are distributed to employees throughout the world, and reemphasized through internal programs to assure that they are understood and followed. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed solely of independent, non-management directors, and is responsible for recommending to the Board the independent registered public accounting firm to be retained for the coming year, subject to stockholder ratification. The Audit Committee meets regularly and privately with the independent registered public accounting firm, with the companys internal auditors, as well as with IBM management, to review accounting, auditing, internal control structure and financial reporting matters. Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting of the company. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the companys internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2016. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, is retained to audit IBMs Consolidated Financial Statements and the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. Its accompanying report is based on audits conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). /s/ Virginia M. Rometty Virginia M. Rometty Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer February 28, 2017 /s/ Martin J. Schroeter Martin J. Schroeter Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer February 28, 2017 82 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of International Business Machines Corporation: In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income, Changes in Equity, and Cash Flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of International Business Machines Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) (2013). The Companys management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing on page 82. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP New York, New York February 28, 2017 83 Consolidated Statement of Earnings International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions except per share amounts) For the year ended December 31: Notes 2016 2015 2014 Revenue Services $ 51,268 $ 49,911 $ 55,673 Sales 26,942 29,967 35,063 Financing 1,710 1,864 2,057 Total revenue T 79,919 81,741 92,793 Cost Services 34,021 33,126 36,034 Sales 6,559 6,920 9,312 Financing 1,044 1,011 1,040 Total cost 41,625 41,057 46,386 Gross profit 38,294 40,684 46,407 Expense and other (income) Selling, general and administrative 21,069 20,430 23,180 Research, development and engineering O 5,751 5,247 5,437 Intellectual property and custom development income (1,631 ) (682 ) (742 ) Other (income) and expense 145 (724 ) (1,938 ) Interest expense D&J 630 468 484 Total expense and other (income) 25,964 24,740 26,421 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 12,330 15,945 19,986 Provision for income taxes N 449 2,581 4,234 Income from continuing operations 11,881 13,364 15,751 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax C (9 ) (174 ) (3,729 ) Net income $ 11,872 $ 13,190 $ 12,022 Earnings/(loss) per share of common stock Assuming dilution Continuing operations P $ 12.39 $ 13.60 $ 15.59 Discontinued operations P (0.01 ) (0.18 ) (3.69 ) Total P $ 12.38 $ 13.42 $ 11.90 Basic Continuing operations P $ 12.44 $ 13.66 $ 15.68 Discontinued operations P (0.01 ) (0.18 ) (3.71 ) Total P $ 12.43 $ 13.48 $ 11.97 Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding Assuming dilution 958,714,097 982,700,267 1,010,000,480 Basic 955,422,530 978,744,523 1,004,272,584 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements. 84 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: Notes 2016 2015 2014 Net income $ 11,872 $ 13,190 $ 12,022 Other comprehensive income/(loss), before tax Foreign currency translation adjustments L (20 ) (1,379 ) (1,636 ) Net changes related to available-for-sale securities L Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period (38 ) (54 ) (29 ) Reclassification of (gains)/losses to net income 34 86 5 Total net changes related to available-for-sale securities (3 ) 32 (24 ) Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges L Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period 243 618 958 Reclassification of (gains)/losses to net income 102 (1,072 ) (97 ) Total unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 345 (454 ) 861 Retirement-related benefit plans L Prior service costs/(credits) 6 1 Net (losses)/gains arising during the period (2,490 ) (2,963 ) (9,799 ) Curtailments and settlements (16 ) 33 24 Amortization of prior service (credits)/costs (107 ) (100 ) (114 ) Amortization of net (gains)/losses 2,764 3,304 2,531 Total retirement-related benefit plans 150 279 (7,357 ) Other comprehensive income/(loss), before tax L 472 (1,523 ) (8,156 ) Income tax (expense)/benefit related to items of other comprehensive income L (263 ) (208 ) 1,883 Other comprehensive income/(loss) L 209 (1,731 ) (6,274 ) Total comprehensive income $ 12,081 $ 11,459 $ 5,748 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements. 85 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions except per share amounts) At December 31: Notes 2016 2015 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 7,826 $ 7,686 Marketable securities D 701 508 Notes and accounts receivabletrade (net of allowances of $290 in 2016 and $367 in 2015) 9,182 8,333 Short-term financing receivables (net of allowances of $337 in 2016 and $490 in 2015) F 19,006 19,020 Other accounts receivable (net of allowances of $48 in 2016 and $51 in 2015) 1,057 1,201 Inventories E 1,553 1,551 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 4,564 4,205 Total current assets 43,888 42,504 Property, plant and equipment G 30,133 29,342 Less: Accumulated depreciation G 19,303 18,615 Property, plant and equipmentnet G 10,830 10,727 Long-term financing receivables (net of allowances of $101 in 2016 and $118 in 2015) F 9,021 10,013 Prepaid pension assets S 3,034 1,734 Deferred taxes N 5,224 4,822 Goodwill I 36,199 32,021 Intangible assetsnet I 4,688 3,487 Investments and sundry assets H 4,585 5,187 Total assets $ 117,470 $ 110,495 Liabilities and equity Current liabilities Taxes N $ 3,235 $ 2,847 Short-term debt D&J 7,513 6,461 Accounts payable 6,209 6,028 Compensation and benefits 3,577 3,560 Deferred income 11,035 11,021 Other accrued expenses and liabilities 4,705 4,353 Total current liabilities 36,275 34,269 Long-term debt D&J 34,655 33,428 Retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations S 17,070 16,504 Deferred income 3,600 3,771 Other liabilities K 7,477 8,099 Total liabilities 99,078 96,071 Contingencies and commitments M Equity L IBM stockholders equity Common stock, par value $.20 per share, and additional paid-in capital 53,935 53,262 Shares authorized: 4,687,500,000 Shares issued (20162,225,116,815; 20152,221,223,449) Retained earnings 152,759 146,124 Treasury stock, at cost (shares: 20161,279,249,412; 20151,255,494,724) (159,050 ) (155,518 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (29,398 ) (29,607 ) Total IBM stockholders equity 18,246 14,262 Noncontrolling interests A 146 162 Total equity 18,392 14,424 Total liabilities and equity $ 117,470 $ 110,495 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements. 86 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Cash flows from operating activities Net income $ 11,872 $ 13,190 $ 12,022 Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities Depreciation 2,837 2,662 3,145 Amortization of intangibles 1,544 1,193 1,347 Stock-based compensation 544 468 512 Deferred taxes (1,132 ) 1,387 (237 ) Net (gain)/loss on asset sales and other 62 481 (1,535 ) Loss on microelectronics business disposal 71 3,381 Change in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions/divestitures Receivables (including financing receivables) 712 812 1,270 Retirement related 54 (22 ) (655 ) Inventories (14 ) 133 (39 ) Other assets/other liabilities 282 (3,448 ) (1,886 ) Accounts payable 197 81 (456 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 16,958 17,008 16,868 Cash flows from investing activities Payments for property, plant and equipment (3,567 ) (3,579 ) (3,740 ) Proceeds from disposition of property, plant and equipment 424 370 404 Investment in software (583 ) (572 ) (443 ) Purchases of marketable securities and other investments (5,917 ) (3,073 ) (2,338 ) Proceeds from disposition of marketable securities and other investments 5,692 2,842 2,493 Non-operating finance receivablesnet (891 ) (398 ) (1,078 ) Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (5,679 ) (3,349 ) (656 ) Divestiture of businesses, net of cash transferred (454 ) (401 ) 2,357 Net cash used in investing activities (10,976 ) (8,159 ) (3,001 ) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from new debt 9,132 5,540 8,180 Payments to settle debt (6,395 ) (5,622 ) (4,644 ) Short-term borrowings/(repayments) less than 90 daysnet 26 101 (1,753 ) Common stock repurchases (3,502 ) (4,609 ) (13,679 ) Common stock transactionsother 204 322 709 Cash dividends paid (5,256 ) (4,897 ) (4,265 ) Net cash used in financing activities (5,791 ) (9,166 ) (15,452 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (51 ) (473 ) (655 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 140 (790 ) (2,240 ) Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 7,686 8,476 10,716 Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 $ 7,826 $ 7,686 $ 8,476 Supplemental data Income taxes paidnet of refunds received $ 1,078 $ 2,657 $ 5,748 Interest paid on debt $ 1,158 $ 995 $ 1,061 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements. 87 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) Common Accumulated Stock and Other Total IBM Non- Additional Retained Treasury Comprehensive Stockholders Controlling Total Paid-In Capital Earnings Stock Income/(Loss) Equity Interests Equity 2014 Equity, January 1, 2014 $ 51,594 $ 130,042 $ (137,242 ) $ (21,602 ) $ 22,792 $ 137 $ 22,929 Net income plus other comprehensive income/(loss) Net income 12,022 12,022 12,022 Other comprehensive income/(loss) (6,274 ) (6,274 ) (6,274 ) Total comprehensive income/(loss) $ 5,748 $ 5,748 Cash dividends paid common stock (4,265 ) (4,265 ) (4,265 ) Common stock issued under employee plans (7,687,026 shares) 977 977 977 Purchases (1,313,569 shares) and sales (1,264,232 shares) of treasury stock under employee plansnet (6 ) (79 ) (85 ) (85 ) Other treasury shares purchased, not retired (71,504,867 shares) (13,395 ) (13,395 ) (13,395 ) Changes in other equity 95 95 95 Changes in noncontrolling interests 8 8 Equity, December 31, 2014 $ 52,666 $ 137,793 $ (150,715 ) $ (27,875 ) $ 11,868 $ 146 $ 12,014 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements. ($ in millions) Common Accumulated Stock and Other Total IBM Non- Additional Retained Treasury Comprehensive Stockholders Controlling Total Paid-In Capital Earnings Stock Income/(Loss) Equity Interests Equity 2015 Equity, January 1, 2015 $ 52,666 $ 137,793 $ (150,715 ) $ (27,875 ) $ 11,868 $ 146 $ 12,014 Net income plus other comprehensive income/(loss) Net income 13,190 13,190 13,190 Other comprehensive income/(loss) (1,731 ) (1,731 ) (1,731 ) Total comprehensive income/(loss) $ 11,459 $ 11,459 Cash dividends paid common stock (4,897 ) (4,897 ) (4,897 ) Common stock issued under employee plans (6,013,875 shares) 606 606 606 Purchases (1,625,820 shares) and sales (1,155,558 shares) of treasury stock under employee plansnet 39 (102 ) (63 ) (63 ) Other treasury shares purchased, not retired (30,338,647 shares) (4,701 ) (4,701 ) (4,701 ) Changes in other equity (10 ) (10 ) (10 ) Changes in noncontrolling interests 16 16 Equity, December 31, 2015 $ 53,262 $ 146,124 $ (155,518 ) $ (29,607 ) $ 14,262 $ 162 $ 14,424 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements. 88 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) Common Accumulated Stock and Other Total IBM Non- Additional Retained Treasury Comprehensive Stockholders Controlling Total Paid-In Capital Earnings Stock Income/(Loss) Equity Interests Equity 2016 Equity, January 1, 2016 $ 53,262 $ 146,124 $ (155,518 ) $ (29,607 ) $ 14,262 $ 162 $ 14,424 Net income plus other comprehensive income/(loss) Net income 11,872 11,872 11,872 Other comprehensive income/(loss) 209 209 209 Total comprehensive income/(loss) $ 12,081 $ 12,081 Cash dividends paid common stock (5,256 ) (5,256 ) (5,256 ) Common stock issued under employee plans (3,893,366 shares) 695 695 695 Purchases (854,365 shares) and sales (383,077 shares) of treasury stock under employee plansnet 18 (77 ) (59 ) (59 ) Other treasury shares purchased, not retired (23,283,400 shares) (3,455 ) (3,455 ) (3,455 ) Changes in other equity (22 ) 0 (22 ) (22 ) Changes in noncontrolling interests (16 ) (16 ) Equity, December 31, 2016 $ 53,935 $ 152,759 $ (159,050 ) $ (29,398 ) $ 18,246 $ 146 $ 18,392 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements. 89 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies NOTE A. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes of the International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Within the financial statements and tables presented, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes. Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. This is annotated where applicable. On October 20, 2014, the company announced a definitive agreement to divest its Microelectronics business and manufacturing operations to GLOBALFOUNDRIES. The transaction closed on July 1, 2015. Refer to note C, Acquisitions/Divestitures, for additional information on the transaction. In January 2016, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system. These changes impacted the companys reportable segments, but did not impact the companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Refer to note T, Segment Information, on pages 150 to 154 for additional information on the changes in reportable segments. Noncontrolling interest amounts of $16 million, $8 million and $6 million, net of tax, for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Principles of Consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of IBM and its controlled subsidiaries, which are primarily majority owned. Any noncontrolling interest in the equity of a subsidiary is reported in Equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Net income and losses attributable to the noncontrolling interest is reported as described above in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The accounts of variable interest entities (VIEs) are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, if required. Investments in business entities in which the company does not have control, but has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies, are accounted for using the equity method and the companys proportionate share of income or loss is recorded in other (income) and expense. The accounting policy for other investments in equity securities is on page 98 within Marketable Securities. Equity investments in non-publicly traded entities are primarily accounted for using the cost method. All intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, expenses and other comprehensive income/(loss) (OCI) that are reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. These estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events, historical experience, actions that the company may undertake in the future and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. As a result, actual results may be different from these estimates. See Critical Accounting Estimates on pages 71 to 74 for a discussion of the companys critical accounting estimates. Revenue The company recognizes revenue when it is realized or realizable and earned. The company considers revenue realized or realizable and earned when it has persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery does not occur until products have been shipped or services have been provided to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the client, and either client acceptance has been obtained, client acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the company has objective evidence that the criteria specified in the client acceptance provisions have been satisfied. The sales price is not considered to be fixed or determinable until all contingencies related to the sale have been resolved. The company recognizes revenue on sales to solution providers, resellers and distributors (herein referred to as resellers) when the reseller has: economic substance apart from the company, credit risk, risk of loss to the inventory; and, the fee to the company is not contingent upon resale or payment by the end user, the company has no further obligations related to bringing about resale or delivery and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. The company reduces revenue for estimated client returns, stock rotation, price protection, rebates and other similar allowances. (See Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves included in the companys Annual Report on Form 10-K). Revenue is recognized only if these estimates can be reasonably and reliably determined. The company bases its estimates on historical results taking into consideration the type of client, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. Payments made under cooperative marketing programs are recognized as an expense only if the company receives from the client an identifiable benefit sufficiently separable from the product sale whose fair value can be reasonably and reliably estimated. If the company does not receive an identifiable benefit sufficiently separable from the product sale whose fair value can be reasonably estimated, such payments are recorded as a reduction of revenue. Revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is a principal to the transaction. Several factors are considered to determine whether the company is an agent or principal, most notably whether the company is the primary obligor to the client, or has inventory risk. Consideration is also given to whether the company adds meaningful value to the vendors product or service, was involved in the selection of the vendors product or service, has latitude in establishing the sales price or has credit risk. The company reports revenue net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions. In addition to the aforementioned general policies, the following 90 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies are the specific revenue recognition policies for multiple-deliverable arrangements and for each major category of revenue. Multiple-Deliverable Arrangements The company enters into revenue arrangements that may consist of multiple deliverables of its products and services based on the needs of its clients. These arrangements may include any combination of services, software, hardware and/or financing. For example, a client may purchase a server that includes operating system software. In addition, the arrangement may include post-contract support for the software and a contract for post-warranty maintenance service for the hardware. These types of arrangements can also include financing provided by the company. These arrangements consist of multiple deliverables, with the hardware and software delivered in one reporting period, and the software support and hardware maintenance services delivered across multiple reporting periods. In another example, a client may outsource the running of its datacenter operations to the company on a long-term, multiple-year basis and periodically purchase servers and/or software products from the company to upgrade or expand its facility. The outsourcing services are provided on a continuous basis across multiple reporting periods, and the hardware and software products are delivered in one reporting period. To the extent that a deliverable in a multiple-deliverable arrangement is subject to specific accounting guidance that deliverable is accounted for in accordance with such specific guidance. Examples of such arrangements may include leased hardware which is subject to specific leasing guidance or software which is subject to specific software revenue recognition guidance on whether and/or how to separate multiple-deliverable arrangements into separate units of accounting (separability) and how to allocate the arrangement consideration among those separate units of accounting (allocation). For all other deliverables in multiple-deliverable arrangements, the guidance below is applied for separability and allocation. A multiple-deliverable arrangement is separated into more than one unit of accounting if the following criteria are met: The delivered item(s) has value to the client on a standalone basis; and If the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in the control of the company. If these criteria are not met, the arrangement is accounted for as one unit of accounting which would result in revenue being recognized ratably over the contract term or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria are met or when the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria are met for each element and there is a relative selling price for all units of accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate units of accounting based on each units relative selling price. The following revenue policies are then applied to each unit of accounting, as applicable. Revenue from the companys cloud, analytics, mobile, security, and cognitive offerings follow the specific revenue recognition policies for multiple-deliverable arrangements and for each major category of revenue depending on the type of offering which can be comprised of services, hardware and/or software. Services The companys primary services offerings include information technology (IT) datacenter and business process outsourcing, application management services, consulting and systems integration, technology infrastructure and system maintenance, hosting and the design and development of complex IT systems to a clients specifications (design and build). Many of these services can be delivered entirely or partially through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models. These services are provided on a time-and-material basis, as a fixed-price contract or as a fixed-price per measure of output contract and the contract terms range from less than one year to over 10 years. Revenue from IT datacenter and business process outsourcing contracts is recognized in the period the services are provided using either an objective measure of output or on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Under the output method, the amount of revenue recognized is based on the services delivered in the period. Revenue from application management services, technology infrastructure, and system maintenance and hosting contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the contracts. Revenue from time-and-material contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered and direct expenses are incurred. Revenue related to extended warranty and product maintenance contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period. Revenue from fixed-price design and build contracts is recognized under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method. Under the POC method, revenue is recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs, and such revisions are reflected in income in the period in which the circumstances that gave rise to the revision become known by the company. The company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its services contracts accounted for under the POC method in order to determine whether the latest estimates of revenues, costs and profits require updating. If at any time these estimates indicate that the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately. For non-POC method services contracts, any losses are recorded as incurred. In some services contracts, the company bills the client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the services. Deferred income of $5,873 million and $6,039 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, is included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In other services contracts, the company performs the services prior to billing the client. Unbilled accounts receivable of $1,611 million and $1,630 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, is included in notes and accounts receivable-trade in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Billings usually occur in the month after the company performs the services or in accordance with specific contractual provisions. Unbilled receivables are expected to be billed within four months. 91 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Hardware The companys hardware offerings include the sale or lease of system servers and storage solutions. The company also offers installation services for its more complex hardware products. Revenue from hardware sales and sales-type leases is recognized when risk of loss has transferred to the client and there are no unfulfilled company obligations that affect the clients final acceptance of the arrangement. Any cost of standard warranties and remaining obligations that are inconsequential or perfunctory are accrued when the corresponding revenue is recognized. Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the rental or lease. Software Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the inception of the license term if all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Revenue from post-contract support, which may include unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if-available basis, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period such items are delivered. Revenue from software hosting or Software-as-a-Service arrangements is recognized as the service is delivered. In software hosting arrangements, the rights provided to the customer (e.g., ownership of a license, contract termination provisions and the feasibility of the customer to operate the software) are considered in determining whether the arrangement includes a license. In arrangements which include a software license, the associated revenue is recognized according to whether the license is perpetual or term. Revenue from term (recurring license charge) license software is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period that the client is entitled to use the license. In multiple-deliverable arrangements that include software that is more than incidental to the products or services as a whole (software multiple-deliverable arrangements), software and software-related elements are accounted for in accordance with software revenue recognition guidance. Software-related elements include software products and services for which a software deliverable is essential to its functionality. Tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the tangible products essential functionality are not within the scope of software revenue recognition guidance and are accounted for based on other applicable revenue recognition guidance. A software multiple-deliverable arrangement is separated into more than one unit of accounting if all of the following criteria are met: The functionality of the delivered element(s) is not dependent on the undelivered element(s); There is vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value of the undelivered element(s). VSOE of fair value is based on the price charged when the deliverable is sold separately by the company on a regular basis and not as part of the multiple-deliverable arrangement; and Delivery of the delivered element(s) represents the culmination of the earnings process for that element(s). If any one of these criteria is not met, the arrangement is accounted for as one unit of accounting which would result in revenue being recognized ratably over the contract term or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria are met or when the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria are met for each element and there is VSOE of fair value for all units of accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate units of accounting based on each units relative VSOE of fair value. There may be cases, however, in which there is VSOE of fair value of the undelivered item(s) but no such evidence for the delivered item(s). In these cases, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated to the delivered item(s) equals the total arrangement consideration less the aggregate VSOE of fair value of the undelivered elements. The companys multiple-deliverable arrangements may have a stand-alone software deliverable that is subject to the existing software revenue recognition guidance. The revenue for these multiple-deliverable arrangements is allocated to the software deliverable and the non-software deliverables based on the relative selling prices of all of the deliverables in the arrangement using the hierarchy: VSOE, third-party evidence (TPE) or best estimate of selling price (BESP). In circumstances where the company cannot determine VSOE or TPE of the selling price for all of the deliverables in the arrangement, including the software deliverable, BESP is used for the purpose of performing this allocation. Financing Financing income attributable to sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans is recognized on the accrual basis using the effective interest method. Operating lease income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Best Estimate of Selling Price In certain instances, the company is not able to establish VSOE for all elements in a multiple-deliverable arrangement. When VSOE cannot be established, the company attempts to establish the selling price of each element based on TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. When the company is unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, the company uses BESP in its allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which the company would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. BESP may be used, for example, if a product is not sold on a stand-alone basis or when the company sells a new product, for which VSOE and TPE does not yet exist, in a multiple-deliverable arrangement prior to selling the new product on a stand-alone basis. The company determines BESP by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, overall market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, competitor actions, internal costs, profit objectives and pricing practices. The determination of BESP is a formal process that includes review and approval by the companys management. In addition, the company regularly reviews VSOE and TPE for its products and services, in addition to BESP. Services Costs Recurring operating costs for services contracts, including costs related to bid and proposal activities, are recognized as incurred. For fixed-price design and build contracts, the costs of external 92 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies hardware and software accounted for under the POC method are deferred and recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date, as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. Certain eligible, nonrecurring costs incurred in the initial phases of outsourcing contracts are deferred and subsequently amortized. These costs consist of transition and setup costs related to the installation of systems and processes and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, not to exceed the term of the contract. Additionally, fixed assets associated with outsourcing contracts are capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the asset. If an asset is contract specific, then the depreciation period is the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the contract term. Amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis as a reduction of revenue over the expected period of benefit not to exceed the term of the contract. The company performs periodic reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs. This review is done by comparing the estimated minimum remaining undiscounted cash flows of a contract to the unamortized contract costs. If such minimum undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the unamortized costs, an impairment loss is recognized. Deferred services transition and setup costs were $2,072 million and $2,144 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Amortization of deferred services transition and setup costs was estimated at December 31, 2016 to be $590 million in 2017, $515 million in 2018, $374 million in 2019, $248 million in 2020 and $344 million thereafter. Deferred amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements were $160 million and $184 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Amortization of deferred amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets is recorded as an offset of revenue and was estimated at December 31, 2016 to be $53 million in 2017, $46 million in 2018, $28 million in 2019, $20 million in 2020 and $13 million thereafter. In situations in which an outsourcing contract is terminated, the terms of the contract may require the client to reimburse the company for the recovery of unbilled accounts receivable, unamortized deferred costs incurred to purchase specific assets utilized in the delivery of services and to pay any additional costs incurred by the company to transition the services. Software Costs Costs that are related to the conceptual formulation and design of licensed software programs are expensed as incurred to research, development and engineering expense; costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological feasibility has been established are capitalized as an intangible asset. Capitalized amounts are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to three years and are recorded in software cost within cost of sales. The company performs periodic reviews to ensure that unamortized program costs remain recoverable from future revenue. Costs to support or service licensed programs are charged to software cost within cost of sales as incurred. The company capitalizes certain costs that are incurred to purchase or to create and implement internal-use software programs, including software coding, installation, testing and certain data conversions. These capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to three years and are recorded in selling, general and administrative expense. Product Warranties The company offers warranties for its hardware products that generally range up to three years, with the majority being either one or three years. Estimated costs for warranty terms standard to the deliverable are recognized when revenue is recorded for the related deliverable. The company estimates its warranty costs standard to the deliverable based on historical warranty claim experience and estimates of future spending, and applies this estimate to the revenue stream for products under warranty. Estimated future costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the current period are charged to cost of sales. The warranty liability is reviewed quarterly to verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on the anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period. Adjustments are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from estimates. Costs from fixed-price support or maintenance contracts, including extended warranty contracts, are recognized as incurred. Revenue from extended warranty contracts is initially recorded as deferred income and subsequently recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period. Changes in deferred income for extended warranty contracts, and in the warranty liability for standard warranties, which are included in other accrued expenses and liabilities and other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, are presented in the following tables: Standard Warranty Liability ($ in millions) 2016 2015 Balance at January 1 $ 181 $ 197 Current period accruals 145 173 Accrual adjustments to reflect experience (6 ) 7 Charges incurred (164 ) (196 ) Balance at December 31 $ 156 $ 181 Extended Warranty Liability (Deferred Income) ($ in millions) 2016 2015 Balance at January 1 $ 538 $ 536 Revenue deferred for new extended warranty contracts 263 286 Amortization of deferred revenue (267 ) (253 ) Other* (4 ) (31 ) Balance at December 31 $ 531 $ 538 Current portion $ 264 $ 238 Noncurrent portion $ 267 $ 300 * Other consists primarily of foreign currency translation adjustments. Shipping and Handling Costs related to shipping and handling are recognized as incurred and included in cost in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 93 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Expense and Other Income Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense is charged to income as incurred. Expenses of promoting and selling products and services are classified as selling expense and include such items as compensation, advertising, sales commissions and travel. General and administrative expense includes such items as compensation, legal costs, office supplies, non-income taxes, insurance and office rental. In addition, general and administrative expense includes other operating items such as an allowance for credit losses, workforce rebalancing charges for contractually obligated payments to employees terminated in the ongoing course of business, acquisition costs related to business combinations, amortization of certain intangible assets and environmental remediation costs. Advertising and Promotional Expense The company expenses advertising and promotional costs as incurred. Cooperative advertising reimbursements from vendors are recorded net of advertising and promotional expense in the period in which the related advertising and promotional expense is incurred. Advertising and promotional expense, which includes media, agency and promotional expense, was $1,327 million, $1,290 million and $1,307 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and is recorded in SG&A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Research, Development and Engineering Research, development and engineering (RD&E) costs are expensed as incurred. Software costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological feasibility has been established are capitalized as an intangible asset. Intellectual Property and Custom Development Income The company licenses and sells the rights to certain of its intellectual property (IP) including internally developed patents, trade secrets and technological know-how. Certain IP transactions to third parties are licensing/royalty-based and others are transaction-based sales/other transfers. Income from licensing arrangements is recognized at the inception of the perpetual license term if all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Income from royalty-based fee arrangements is recognized over time or as the licensee sells future related products (i.e., variable royalty, based upon licensees revenue). The company also enters into cross-licensing arrangements of patents, and income from these arrangements is recognized when earned. In addition, the company earns income from certain custom development projects for strategic technology partners and specific clients. The company records the income from these projects if the fee is not refundable, is not dependent upon the success of the project and when all revenue recognition have been met. Other (Income) and Expense Other (income) and expense includes interest income (other than from Global Financing external transactions), gains and losses on certain derivative instruments, gains and losses from securities and other investments, gains and losses from certain real estate transactions, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, gains and losses from the sale of businesses, other than reported as discontinued operations, and amounts related to accretion of asset retirement obligations. Business Combinations and Intangible Assets Including Goodwill The company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree are recorded at their acquisition date fair values. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets, including the amount assigned to identifiable intangible assets. The primary drivers that generate goodwill are the value of synergies between the acquired entities and the company and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualifies as a separately identifiable intangible asset. Goodwill recorded in an acquisition is assigned to applicable reporting units based on expected revenues. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives. Amortization of completed technology is recorded in Cost, and amortization of all other intangible assets is recorded in SG&A expense. Acquisition-related costs, including advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other costs, are expensed in the periods in which the costs are incurred. The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the acquisition date. Impairment Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The impairment test is based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, the asset is written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested at least annually, in the fourth quarter, for impairment and whenever changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level which is the operating segment, or a business, which is one level below that operating segment (the component level) if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at the segment level. Components are aggregated as a single reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics. Depreciation and Amortization Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives of certain depreciable assets are as follows: buildings, 30 to 50 years; building equipment, 10 to 20 years; land improvements, 20 years; plant, laboratory and office equipment, 2 to 20 years; and computer equipment, 1.5 to 5 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the related lease term, rarely exceeding 25 years. Capitalized software costs incurred or acquired after technological feasibility has been established are amortized over periods ranging up to 3 years. Capitalized costs for internal-use software are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to 3 years. Other intangible assets are amortized over periods between 1 and 7 years. 94 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Environmental The cost of internal environmental protection programs that are preventative in nature are expensed as incurred. When a cleanup program becomes likely, and it is probable that the company will incur cleanup costs and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the company accrues remediation costs for known environmental liabilities. The companys maximum exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts are recorded for environmental liabilities that are not probable or estimable. Asset Retirement Obligations Asset retirement obligations (ARO) are legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets. These liabilities are initially recorded at fair value and the related asset retirement costs are capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related assets by the same amount as the liability. Asset retirement costs are subsequently depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets. Subsequent to initial recognition, the company records period-to-period changes in the ARO liability resulting from the passage of time in interest expense and revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original expected cash flows to the related assets. Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans The funded status of the companys defined benefit pension plans and nonpension postretirement benefit plans (retirement-related benefit plans) is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation at December 31, the measurement date. For defined benefit pension plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation (PBO), which represents the actuarial present value of benefits expected to be paid upon retirement based on employee services already rendered and estimated future compensation levels. For the nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO), which represents the actuarial present value of postretirement benefits attributed to employee services already rendered. The fair value of plan assets represents the current market value of assets held in an irrevocable trust fund, held for the sole benefit of participants, which are invested by the trust fund. Overfunded plans, with the fair value of plan assets exceeding the benefit obligation, are aggregated and recorded as a prepaid pension asset equal to this excess. Underfunded plans, with the benefit obligation exceeding the fair value of plan assets, are aggregated and recorded as a retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligation equal to this excess. The current portion of the retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations represents the actuarial present value of benefits payable in the next 12 months exceeding the fair value of plan assets, measured on a plan-by-plan basis. This obligation is recorded in compensation and benefits in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Net periodic pension and nonpension postretirement benefit cost/(income) is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and includes service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service costs/(credits) and (gains)/losses previously recognized as a component of OCI and amortization of the net transition asset remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (AOCI). Service cost represents the actuarial present value of participant benefits earned in the current year. Interest cost represents the time value of money cost associated with the passage of time. Certain events, such as changes in the employee base, plan amendments and changes in actuarial assumptions, result in a change in the benefit obligation and the corresponding change in OCI. The result of these events is amortized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) over the service lives or life expectancy of the participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets. Net periodic cost/(income) is recorded in Cost, SG&A and RD&E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees respective functions. (Gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) not recognized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings as they arise are recognized as a component of OCI in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Those (gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) are subsequently recognized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) pursuant to the recognition and amortization provisions of applicable accounting guidance. (Gains)/losses arise as a result of differences between actual experience and assumptions or as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions. Prior service costs/(credits) represent the cost of benefit changes attributable to prior service granted in plan amendments. The measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic cost/(income) is based on estimates and assumptions approved by the companys management. These valuations reflect the terms of the plans and use participant-specific information such as compensation, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, including estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates. Defined Contribution Plans The companys contribution for defined contribution plans is recorded when the employee renders service to the company. The charge is recorded in Cost, SG&A and RD&E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees respective functions. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation represents the cost related to stock-based awards granted to employees. The company measures stock-based compensation cost at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award and recognizes the cost on a straight-line basis (net of estimated forfeitures) over the employee requisite service period. The company grants its employees Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), including Retention Restricted Stock Units (RRSUs) and Performance Share Units (PSUs) and periodically grants stock options. RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests, typically over a one- to five-year period. The fair value of the awards is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the companys stock price, adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents. The company estimates the fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes 95 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies valuation model. Stock-based compensation cost is recorded in Cost, SG&A, and RD&E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees respective functions. The company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in deductions on the companys income tax returns, based on the amount of compensation cost recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a deduction. Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the income tax return are recorded in additional paid-in capital (if the tax deduction exceeds the deferred tax asset) or in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings (if the deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction and no additional paid-in capital exists from previous awards). Income Taxes Income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between asset and liability amounts that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. These deferred taxes are measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. When the company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the valuation allowance is adjusted with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. The company recognizes tax liabilities when, despite the companys belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. Benefits from tax positions are measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The current portion of tax liabilities is included in taxes and the noncurrent portion of tax liabilities is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. To the extent that new information becomes available which causes the company to change its judgment regarding the adequacy of existing tax liabilities, such changes to tax liabilities will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. Interest and penalties, if any, related to accrued liabilities for potential tax assessments are included in income tax expense. Translation of Non-U.S. Currency Amounts Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that have a local functional currency are translated to United States (U.S.) dollars at year-end exchange rates. Translation adjustments are recorded in OCI. Income and expense items are translated at weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Inventories, property, plant and equipmentnet and other non-monetary assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars are translated at the approximate exchange rates prevailing when the company acquired the assets or liabilities. All other assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars are translated at year-end exchange rates with the transaction gain or loss recognized in other (income) and expense. Income and expense items are translated at the weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. These translation gains and losses are included in net income for the period in which exchange rates change. Derivative Financial Instruments Derivatives are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at fair value and are reported in prepaid expenses and other current assets, investments and sundry assets, other accrued expenses and liabilities or other liabilities. Classification of each derivative as current or noncurrent is based upon whether the maturity of the instrument is less than or greater than 12 months. To qualify for hedge accounting, the company requires that the instruments be effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designated to hedge. For instruments that hedge cash flows, hedge designation criteria also require that it be probable that the underlying transaction will occur. Instruments that meet established accounting criteria are formally designated as hedges. These criteria demonstrate that the derivative is expected to be highly effective at offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of the underlying exposure both at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. The method of assessing hedge effectiveness and measuring hedge ineffectiveness is formally documented at hedge inception. The company assesses hedge effectiveness and measures hedge ineffectiveness at least quarterly throughout the designated hedge period. Where the company applies hedge accounting, the company designates each derivative as a hedge of: (1) the fair value of a recognized financial asset or liability, or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge attributable to interest rate or foreign currency risk); (2) the variability of anticipated cash flows of a forecasted transaction, or the cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized financial asset or liability (cash flow hedge attributable to interest rate or foreign currency risk); or (3) a hedge of a long-term investment (net investment hedge) in a foreign operation. In addition, the company may enter into derivative contracts that economically hedge certain of its risks, even though hedge accounting does not apply or the company elects not to apply hedge accounting. In these cases, there exists a natural hedging relationship in which changes in the fair value of the derivative, which are recognized currently in net income, act as an economic offset to changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item(s). Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge, along with offsetting changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged exposure, are recorded in earnings each period. For hedges of interest rate risk, the fair value adjustments are recorded as adjustments to interest expense and cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For hedges of currency risk associated with recorded financial assets or liabilities, derivative fair value adjustments are recognized in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge are recorded, net of applicable taxes, in OCI, in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. When net income is affected by the variability of the underlying cash flow, the applicable offsetting amount of the gain or loss from the derivative that is deferred in AOCI is released to net income and reported in interest expense, cost, SG&A expense or other (income) and expense in the 96 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the nature of the underlying cash flow hedged. Effectiveness for net investment hedging derivatives is measured on a spot-to-spot basis. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of net investment hedging derivatives and other non-derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in AOCI. Changes in the fair value of the portion of a net investment hedging derivative excluded from the effectiveness assessment are recorded in interest expense. If the underlying hedged item in a fair value hedge ceases to exist, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are included in net income each period until the instrument matures. When the derivative transaction ceases to exist, a hedged asset or liability is no longer adjusted for changes in its fair value except as required under other relevant accounting standards. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges, as well as changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not effectively offset changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item throughout the designated hedge period (collectively, ineffectiveness), are recorded in earnings for each period and are primarily reported in other (income) and expense. When a cash flow hedging relationship is discontinued, the net gain or loss in AOCI must generally remain in AOCI until the item that was hedged affects earnings. However, when it is probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period thereafter, the net gain or loss in AOCI must be reclassified into earnings immediately. The company reports cash flows arising from derivative financial instruments designated as fair value or cash flow hedges consistent with the classification of cash flows from the underlying hedged items that these derivatives are hedging. Accordingly, the cash flows associated with derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges are classified in cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Cash flows from derivatives designated as net investment hedges and derivatives that do not qualify as hedges are reported in cash flows from investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. For currency swaps designated as hedges of foreign currency denominated debt (included in the companys debt risk management program as addressed in note D, Financial Instruments, on pages 110 through 114), cash flows directly associated with the settlement of the principal element of these swaps are reported in payments to settle debt in cash flows from financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Financial Instruments In determining the fair value of its financial instruments, the company uses a variety of methods and assumptions that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each balance sheet date. See note D, Financial Instruments, on pages 109 to 110 for further information. All methods of assessing fair value result in a general approximation of value, and such value may never actually be realized. Fair Value Measurement Accounting guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Under this guidance, the company is required to classify certain assets and liabilities based on the following fair value hierarchy: Level 1Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that can be accessed at the measurement date; Level 2Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and Level 3Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. The guidance requires the use of observable market data if such data is available without undue cost and effort. When available, the company uses unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets to measure the fair value and classifies such items within Level 1. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that use current market-based or independently sourced market parameters such as interest rates and currency rates. Items valued using internally generated models are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation. The determination of fair value considers various factors including interest rate yield curves and time value underlying the financial instruments. For derivatives and debt securities, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis using discount rates commensurate with the duration of the instrument. In determining the fair value of financial instruments, the company considers certain market valuation adjustments to the base valuations calculated using the methodologies described below for several parameters that market participants would consider in determining fair value: Counterparty credit risk adjustments are applied to financial instruments, taking into account the actual credit risk of a counterparty as observed in the credit default swap market to determine the true fair value of such an instrument. Credit risk adjustments are applied to reflect the companys own credit risk when valuing all liabilities measured at fair value. The methodology is consistent with that applied in developing counterparty credit risk adjustments, but incorporates the companys own credit risk as observed in the credit default swap market. As an example, the fair value of derivatives is derived utilizing a discounted cash flow model that uses observable market inputs such as known notional value amounts, yield curves, spot and forward exchange rates as well as discount rates. These inputs relate to liquid, heavily traded currencies with active markets which are available for the full term of the derivative. 97 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Certain financial assets are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets include equity method investments that are recognized at fair value at the measurement date to the extent that they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Certain assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis can be subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements. These assets include available-for-sale equity investments that are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. In the event of an other-than-temporary impairment of a financial instrument, fair value is measured using a model described above. Accounting guidance permits the measurement of eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards. This election is irrevocable. The company has not applied the fair value option to any eligible assets or liabilities. Cash Equivalents All highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents. Marketable Securities Debt securities included in current assets represent securities that are expected to be realized in cash within one year of the balance sheet date. Long-term debt securities that are not expected to be realized in cash within one year and alliance equity securities are included in investments and sundry assets. Debt and marketable equity securities are considered available for sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable taxes, in OCI. The realized gains and losses for available-for-sale securities are included in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Realized gains and losses are calculated based on the specific identification method. In determining whether an other-than-temporary decline in market value has occurred, the company considers the duration that, and extent to which, the fair value of the investment is below its cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; and the companys intent and ability to retain the security in order to allow for an anticipated recovery in fair value. Other-than-temporary declines in fair value from amortized cost for available-for-sale equity and debt securities that the company intends to sell or would more likely than not be required to sell before the expected recovery of the amortized cost basis are charged to other (income) and expense in the period in which the loss occurs. For debt securities that the company has no intent to sell and believes that it more likely than not will not be required to sell prior to recovery, only the credit loss component of the impairment is recognized in other (income) and expense, while the remaining loss is recognized in OCI. The credit loss component recognized in other (income) and expense is identified as the amount of the principal cash flows not expected to be received over the remaining term of the debt security as projected using the companys cash flow projections. Inventories Raw materials, work in process and finished goods are stated at the lower of average cost or market. Cash flows related to the sale of inventories are reflected in net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Allowance for Credit Losses Receivables are recorded concurrent with billing and shipment of a product and/or delivery of a service to customers. A reasonable estimate of probable net losses on the value of customer receivables is recognized by establishing an allowance for credit losses. Notes and Accounts ReceivableTrade An allowance for uncollectible trade receivables is estimated based on a combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known troubled accounts. Financing Receivables Financing receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans. Leases are accounted for in accordance with lease accounting standards. Loan receivables are financial assets recorded at amortized cost which approximates fair value. The company determines its allowances for credit losses on financing receivables based on two portfolio segments: lease receivables and loan receivables. The company further segments the portfolio into two classes: major markets and growth markets. When calculating the allowances, the company considers its ability to mitigate a potential loss by repossessing leased equipment and by considering the current fair market value of any other collateral. The value of the equipment is the net realizable value. The allowance for credit losses for capital leases, installment sales and customer loans includes an assessment of the entire balance of the capital lease or loan, including amounts not yet due. The methodologies that the company uses to calculate its receivables reserves, which are applied consistently to its different portfolios, are as follows: Individually Evaluated The company reviews all financing receivables considered at risk on a quarterly basis. The review primarily consists of an analysis based upon current information available about the client, such as financial statements, news reports, published credit ratings, current market-implied credit analysis, as well as the current economic environment, collateral net of repossession cost and prior collection history. For loans that are collateral dependent, impairment is measured using the fair value of the collateral when foreclosure is probable. Using this information, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve. 98 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Collectively Evaluated The company records an unallocated reserve that is calculated by applying a reserve rate to its different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been specifically reserved. This reserve rate is based upon credit rating, probability of default, term, characteristics (lease/loan) and loss history. Factors that could result in actual receivable losses that are materially different from the estimated reserve include sharp changes in the economy, or a significant change in the economic health of a particular client that represents a concentration in the companys receivables portfolio. Other Credit-Related Policies Past Due The company views receivables as past due when payment has not been received after 90 days, measured from the original billing date. Non-Accrual Certain receivables for which the company has recorded a specific reserve may also be placed on non-accrual status. Non-accrual assets are those receivables (impaired loans or nonperforming leases) with specific reserves and other accounts for which it is likely that the company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to original terms of the lease or loan agreement. Income recognition is discontinued on these receivables. Cash collections are first applied as a reduction to principal outstanding. Any cash received in excess of principal payments outstanding is recognized as interest income. Receivables may be removed from non-accrual status, if appropriate, based upon changes in client circumstances. Impaired Loans As stated above, the company evaluates all financing receivables considered at-risk, including loans, for impairment on a quarterly basis. The company considers any loan with an individually evaluated reserve as an impaired loan. Depending on the level of impairment, loans will also be placed on non-accrual status as appropriate. Client loans are primarily for software and services and are unsecured. These loans are subjected to credit analysis to evaluate the associated risk and, when deemed necessary, actions are taken to mitigate risks in the loan agreements which include covenants to protect against credit deterioration during the life of the obligation. Write Off Receivable losses are charged against the allowance in the period in which the receivable is deemed uncollectible. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. Write-offs of receivables and associated reserves occur to the extent that the customer is no longer in operation and/or, there is no reasonable expectation of additional collections or repossession. The companys assessments factor in the history of collections and write-offs in specific countries and across the portfolio. Estimated Residual Values of Lease Assets The recorded residual values of lease assets are estimated at the inception of the lease to be the expected fair value of the assets at the end of the lease term. The company periodically reassesses the realizable value of its lease residual values. Any anticipated increases in specific future residual values are not recognized before realization through remarketing efforts. Anticipated decreases in specific future residual values that are considered to be other-than-temporary are recognized immediately upon identification and are recorded as an adjustment to the residual value estimate. For sales-type and direct-financing leases, this reduction lowers the recorded net investment and is recognized as a loss charged to financing income in the period in which the estimate is changed, as well as an adjustment to unearned income to reduce future-period financing income. Common Stock Common stock refers to the $.20 par value per share capital stock as designated in the companys Certificate of Incorporation. Treasury stock is accounted for using the cost method. When treasury stock is reissued, the value is computed and recorded using a weighted-average basis. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Earnings per share (EPS) is computed using the two-class method. The two-class method determines EPS for each class of common stock and participating securities according to dividends and dividend equivalents and their respective participation rights in undistributed earnings. Basic EPS of common stock is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS of common stock is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock awards, convertible notes and stock options. NOTE B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES New Standards to be Implemented In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance which clarifies the definition of a business. The guidance provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities acquired or sold is a business. The guidance is effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption is permitted. The guidance will be applied prospectively to any transactions occurring within the period of adoption. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017 and does not expect a material impact in the consolidated financial statements. In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance which requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets, other than inventory, at the time of transfer. Assets within the scope of the guidance include intellectual property and property, plant and equipment. The guidance is effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption is permitted. The company adopted the guidance on January 1, 2017 using the required modified retrospective method. At adoption, $95 million and $47 million were reclassified from investments in sundry assets and prepaid and other current assets, respectively into retained earnings. Additionally, net deferred taxes of $244 million were established in deferred taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net credit to retained earnings of $102 million. In January 2017, the company had a transaction generating approximately $400 million to $500 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The ongoing impact of this guidance will be dependent on any transaction that is within its scope. 99 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model. The guidance requires the consideration of all available relevant information when estimating expected credit losses, including past events, current conditions and forecasts and their implications for expected credit losses. The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with a one year early adoption permitted. The company is evaluating the impact of the new guidance. In March 2016, the FASB issued guidance which changes the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The guidance was effective January 1, 2017 and upon transition did not have a material impact in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The ongoing impact of the guidance could result in increased volatility in the provision for income taxes and earnings per share in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, depending on the companys share price at exercise or vesting of share-based awards compared to grant date, however these impacts are not expected to be material. The guidance also requires cash payments on behalf of employees for shares directly withheld for taxes to be presented as financing outflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Prior to adoption, the company reported this activity as an operating cash outflow. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, the amounts for this activity that were recorded as operating cash outflows were $126 million and $248 million. This provision of the guidance requires retrospective application upon adoption on January 1, 2017. In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance which changes the accounting for leases. The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the capital lease test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance. The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date of January 1, 2019. The company is currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The companys operating lease commitments were $6.9 billion at December 31, 2016. In 2016, the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance resulted in the company recognizing $220 million of sales-type lease revenue that would otherwise have been recognized over the lease period as operating lease revenue. In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. Certain equity investments will be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. The amendment also simplifies the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value. The guidance is effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption is not permitted except for limited provisions. The guidance is not expected to have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016. Revenue recognition will depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance also requires disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The guidance permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (the cumulative catch-up transition method). The guidance was initially effective January 1, 2017 and early adoption was not permitted. The amended guidance provides for a one-year deferral of the effective date to January 1, 2018, with an option of applying the standard on the original effective date. The company will adopt the guidance on January 1, 2018 and apply the cumulative catch-up transition method. Given the scope of work required to implement the recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard, the company began its assessment process in 2014 and has since made significant progress, including identification of changes to policy, processes, systems and controls. The company expects revenue recognition for its broad portfolio of hardware, software and services offerings to remain largely unchanged. However, the guidance is expected to change the timing of revenue recognition in certain areas, including accounting for certain software licenses. These impacts are not expected to be material. The company expects to continue to recognize revenue for term license (recurring license charge) software arrangements on a monthly basis over the period that the client is entitled to use the license due to the contractual terms in these arrangements. Since the company currently expenses sales commissions as incurred, the requirement in the new standard to capitalize certain in-scope sales commissions is being evaluated to determine its potential impact in the consolidated financial statements in the year of adoption. There will be no impact to cash flows. The company continues to assess all potential impacts of the guidance and given normal ongoing business dynamics, preliminary conclusions are subject to change. Standards Implemented In November 2015, the FASB issued guidance which requires deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in the statement of financial position. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance in the fourth quarter of 2015 on a retrospective basis. The guidance was a change in financial presentation only. 100 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies In September 2015, the FASB issued guidance eliminating the requirement that an acquirer in a business combination account for a measurement-period adjustment retrospectively. Instead, an acquirer will recognize a measurement-period adjustment during the period in which the amount of the adjustment is determined. In addition, the portion of the amount recorded in current-period earnings by line item that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to the provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date should be presented separately on the face of the income statement or disclosed in the notes. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 on a prospective basis. The guidance did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. In May 2015, the FASB issued guidance which removed the requirement to categorize within the fair value hierarchy all investments for which fair value is measured using the net asset value per share practical expedient. The amendments also removed the requirement to make certain disclosures for all investments that are eligible to be measured at fair value using the net asset value per share practical expedient. Rather, those disclosures are limited to investments for which the entity has elected to measure the fair value using that practical expedient. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016. The guidance was a change in disclosure only and did not have an impact in the consolidated financial results. In April 2015, the FASB issued guidance about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If the arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If the arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a services contract. All software licenses recognized under this guidance will be accounted for consistent with other licenses of intangible assets. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 and the company adopted it on a prospective basis. The guidance did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. In April 2015, the FASB issued guidance which requires debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance in the fourth quarter of 2015 on a retrospective basis. The company had debt issuance costs of $82 million and $74 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Debt issuance costs were previously included in investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. NOTE C. ACQUISITIONS/DIVESTITURES Acquisitions Purchase price consideration for all acquisitions, as reflected in the tables in this note, was paid primarily in cash. All acquisitions are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of acquired cash and cash equivalents. 2016 In 2016, the company completed fifteen acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $5,899 million. The Weather Company (TWC) On January 29, 2016, the company completed the acquisition of TWCs B2B, mobile and cloud-based Web-properties, weather.com, Weather Underground, The Weather Company brand and WSI, its global business-to-business brand, for cash consideration of $2,278 million. The cable television segment was not acquired by IBM, but is licensing weather forecast data and analytics from IBM under a long-term contract. TWC was a privately held business. Goodwill of $1,717 million has been assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment. It is expected that none of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired is 6.9 years. Truven Health Analytics, Inc. (Truven) On April 8, 2016, the company completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Truven, a leading provider of healthcare analytics solutions, for cash consideration of $2,612 million, of which $200 million will be paid in July 2017. Truven has developed proprietary analytic methods and assembled analytic content assets, creating extensive national healthcare utilization, performance, quality and cost data. Truven was a privately held business. Goodwill of $1,933 million has been assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment. It is expected that approximately 15 percent of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired is 6.9 years. Other Acquisitions The Technology Services & Cloud Platforms segment completed acquisitions of four businesses: in the first quarter: Ustream, Inc. (Ustream), a privately held business, and AT&Ts application and hosting services business; in the third quarter, G4Ss cash solutions business; and in the fourth quarter, Sanovi Technologies Private Limited (Sanovi), a privately held business. Global Business Services (GBS) completed acquisitions of six privately held businesses: in the first quarter, Resource/Ammirati, ecx International AG (ecx.io) and Optevia Limited (Optevia); in the second quarter, Aperto AG (Aperto) and Bluewolf Group, LLC (Bluewolf); and in the fourth quarter, Fluid, Inc.s Expert Personal Shopper (XPS) business. The Cognitive Solutions segment completed acquisitions of three privately held businesses: in the second quarter, Resilient Systems, Inc. (Resilient) and EZ Legacy, Ltd. (EZSource); and in the fourth quarter, Promontory Financial Group, LLC (Promontory). 101 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Each acquisition is expected to enhance the companys portfolio of product and services capabilities. Ustream provides cloud-based video streaming to enterprises and broadcasters. The acquisition of AT&Ts application and hosting services business strengthens the companys cloud portfolio. The acquisition of G4Ss cash solutions business brings together the engineering skills of G4S with the companys analytics and remote technology capabilities to expand delivery solutions. Sanovi provides hybrid cloud recovery, cloud migration and business continuity software for enterprise data centers and cloud infrastructure. Resource/Ammirati is a leading U.S. based digital marketing and creative agency, addressing the rising demand from businesses seeking to reinvent themselves for the digital economy. Ecx.io enhances GBS IBM Interactive Experience (IBM iX) with new digital marketing, commerce and platform skills to accelerate clients digital transformations. Optevia is a Software-as-a Service systems integrator specializing in CRM solutions for public sector organizations. Aperto also joined IBM iX, supporting the companys growth in Europe, with expertise in digital strategy projects, including website and application development. Bluewolf extends the companys analytics, experience design and industry consulting leadership with one of the worlds leading Salesforce consulting practices to deliver differentiated, consumer-grade experiences via the cloud. Fluid, Inc.s Expert Personal Shopper business extends the companys portfolio of SaaS offerings and services, helping clients conduct commerce and engage with their customers. Resilient, a provider of incident response solutions, automates and orchestrates the many processes needed when dealing with cyber incidents from breaches to lost devices. EZSource helps developers quickly and easily understand and change mainframe code based on data displayed through dashboards and other visualizations. Promontory, a global market-leading risk management and regulatory compliance consulting firm, helps address clients escalating regulations and risk management requirements. All of these Other Acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired businesses. The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2016. 2016 Acquisitions ($ in millions) Amortization The Truven Life Weather Health Other (in Years) Company Analytics Acquisitions Current assets $ 76 $ 171 $ 153 Fixed assets/noncurrent assets 123 127 110 Intangible assets Goodwill N/A 1,717 1,933 593 Completed technology 17 160 338 96 Client relationships 37 313 516 226 Patents/trademarks 17 349 54 42 Total assets acquired 2,738 3,141 1,220 Current liabilities (88 ) (148 ) (96 ) Noncurrent liabilities (372 ) (381 ) (76 ) Total liabilities assumed (460 ) (529 ) (171 ) Bargain purchase gain (40 )* Total purchase price $ 2,278 $ 2,612 $ 1,009 N/ANot applicable. * Bargain purchase gain relating to AT&Ts application and hosting services business was recognized in selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in the three months ended March 31, 2016. The acquisitions were accounted for as business combinations using the acquisition method, and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired entity were recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The primary items that generated the goodwill are the value of the synergies between the acquired businesses and IBM and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualify as an amortizable intangible asset. For the Other Acquisitions, the overall weighted-average life of the identified amortizable intangible assets acquired is 6.3 years. These identified intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Goodwill of $119 million has been assigned to the Technology Services & Cloud Platforms segment, goodwill of $303 million has been assigned to the GBS segment and goodwill of $171 million has been assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment. It is expected that approximately 55 percent of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes. On February 3, 2017, the company announced that it had acquired Agile 3 Solutions, LLC (Agile 3 Solutions), a privately held business based in San Francisco, California. Agile 3 Solutions is a developer of software used by the C-Suite and senior executives to better visualize, understand and manage risks associated with the protection of sensitive data. The business will be integrated within the Technology Services & Cloud Platforms segment. At the date of issuance of the financial statements, the initial purchase accounting was not complete for this acquisition. 102 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 2015 In 2015, the company completed fourteen acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $3,555 million. Merge Healthcare, Inc. (Merge) On October 13, 2015, the company completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Merge, a publicly held business and a leading provider of medical image handling and processing, interoperability and clinical systems designed to advance healthcare quality and efficiency, for cash consideration of $1,036 million. Merge joined the companys Watson Health business unit, bolstering clients ability to analyze and cross-reference medical images against billions of data points already in the Watson Health Cloud. Goodwill of $695 million was assigned to the Cognitive Solutions ($502 million) and Technology Services & Cloud Platforms ($193 million) segments. It was expected that none of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired was 7.0 years. Cleversafe, Inc. (Cleversafe) On November 6, 2015, the company completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Cleversafe, a privately held business and a leading developer and manufacturer of object-based storage software and appliances, for cash consideration of $1,309 million. Cleversafes integration into the companys Cloud business gives clients strategic data flexibility, simplified management and consistency with on-premise, cloud and hybrid cloud deployment options. Goodwill of $1,000 million was assigned to the Technology Services & Cloud Platforms ($590 million) and Systems ($410 million) segments. It was expected that none of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired was 6.9 years. Other Acquisitions The Cognitive Solutions segment completed acquisitions of six privately held businesses: in the first quarter, AlchemyAI, Inc. (AlchemyAI) and Blekko, Inc. (Blekko); in the second quarter, Explorys, Inc. (Explorys) and Phytel, Inc. (Phytel); in the third quarter, Compose, Inc. (Compose); and in the fourth quarter, IRIS Analytics GmbH (IRIS Analytics). The Technology Services & Cloud Platforms segment completed acquisitions of four privately held businesses: in the second quarter, Blue Box Group, Inc. (Blue Box); in the third quarter, StrongLoop, Inc. (StrongLoop); and in the fourth quarter, Gravitant, Inc. (Gravitant) and Clearleap, Inc. (Clearleap). GBS completed acquisitions of two privately held businesses in the fourth quarter, Advanced Application Corporation (AAC) and Meteorix, LLC. (Meteorix). AlchemyAI provides scalable cognitive computing application program interface services and computing applications. Blekko technology provides advanced Web-crawling, categorization and intelligent filtering. Explorys provides secure cloud-based solutions for clinical integration, at-risk population management, cost of care measurement and pay-for-performance. Phytels SaaS-based population health management offerings help providers identify patients at risk for care gaps and engage the patient to begin appropriate preventative care. Blue Box provides hosted, managed, OpenStack-based production-grade private clouds for the enterprise and service provider markets. Compose offers auto-scaling, production-ready databases to help software development teams deploy data services efficiently. StrongLoop provides application development software that enables software developers to build applications using application programming interfaces. AAC engages in system integration application development, software support and services. AAC was an affiliate of JBCC Holdings Inc. and IBM Japan Ltd. The company acquired all the shares of AAC which became a wholly owned subsidiary as of October 1, 2015. Gravitant develops cloud-based software to enable organizations to easily plan, buy and manage, or broker, software and computing services from multiple suppliers across hybrid clouds. Meteorix offers consulting, deployment, integration and ongoing post-production services for Workday Financial Management and Human Capital Management applications. Clearleap provides cloud-based video services. IRIS Analytics provides technology and consultancy services to the payments industry to detect electronic payment fraud. All of these Other Acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired businesses with the exception of the AAC acquisition. The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2015. 2015 Acquisitions ($ in millions) Amortization Life (in Other Years) Merge Cleversafe Acquisitions Current assets $ 94 $ 23 $ 60 Fixed assets/noncurrent assets 128 63 82 Intangible assets Goodwill N/A 695 1,000 895 Completed technology 57 133 364 163 Client relationships 57 145 23 95 Patents/trademarks 27 54 11 23 Total assets acquired 1,248 1,484 1,318 Current liabilities (73 ) (15 ) (34 ) Noncurrent liabilities (139 ) (160 ) (73 ) Total liabilities assumed (212 ) (175 ) (107 ) Total purchase price $ 1,036 $ 1,309 $ 1,210 N/ANot applicable 103 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies For the Other Acquisitions, the overall weighted-average life of the identified intangible assets acquired was 6.4 years. These identified intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Goodwill of $518 million was assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment, $303 million was assigned to the Technology Services & Cloud Platforms segment, and $74 million was assigned to the GBS segment. It was expected that 7 percent of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. 2014 In 2014, the company completed six acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $608 million. The Cognitive Solutions segment completed acquisitions of four privately held businesses: in the first quarter, Cloudant, Inc. (Cloudant); in the second quarter, Silverpop Systems, Inc. (Silverpop) and Cognea Group Pty LTD (Cognea); and in the third quarter, CrossIdeas s.p.a. (CrossIdeas). Technology Services & Cloud Platforms completed acquisitions of two privately held businesses: in the first quarter, Aspera, Inc. (Aspera); and in the third quarter, Lighthouse Security Group, LLC (Lighthouse). Asperas technology helps make cloud computing faster, more predictable and more cost effective for big data transfers such as enterprise storage, sharing virtual images or accessing the cloud for increased computing capacity. Cloudant extends the companys mobile and cloud platform by enabling developers to easily and quickly create next-generation mobile and Web-based applications. Silverpop is a provider of cloud-based capabilities that deliver personalized customer engagements in highly scalable environments. Cognea offers personalized artificial intelligence capabilities designed to serve as an intuitive interface between human users and data-driven information. CrossIdeas delivers next generation identity and access governance capabilities to help mitigate access risks and segregation of duty violations. Lighthouse provides cloud-enabled managed identity and access management solutions. All acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired businesses. The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2014. 2014 Acquisitions ($ in millions) Amortization Total Life (in Years) Acquisitions Current assets $ 56 Fixed assets/noncurrent assets 39 Intangible assets Goodwill N/A 442 Completed technology 57 68 Client relationships 7 77 Patents/trademarks 17 18 Total assets acquired 701 Current liabilities (26 ) Noncurrent liabilities (67 ) Total liabilities assumed (93 ) Total purchase price $ 608 N/ANot applicable The overall weighted-average life of the identified amortizable intangible assets acquired was 6.8 years. These identified intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Goodwill of $442 million was assigned to the Cognitive Solutions ($311 million) and Technology Services & Cloud Platforms ($131 million) segments. It was expected that approximately 1 percent of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. Divestitures Microelectronics On October 20, 2014, IBM and GLOBALFOUNDRIES announced a definitive agreement in which GLOBALFOUNDRIES would acquire the companys Microelectronics business, including existing semiconductor manufacturing assets and operations in East Fishkill, NY and Essex Junction, VT. The commercial OEM business acquired by GLOBALFOUNDRIES includes custom logic and specialty foundry, manufacturing and related operations. The transaction closed on July 1, 2015. The transaction includes a 10-year exclusive manufacturing sourcing agreement in which GLOBALFOUNDRIES will provide server processor semiconductor technology for use in IBM Systems. The agreement provides the company with capacity and market-based pricing for current semiconductor nodes in production and progression to nodes in the future for both development and production needs. As part of the transaction, the company will provide GLOBALFOUNDRIES with certain transition services, including IT, supply chain, packaging and test services and lab services. The initial term for these transition services was one to three years, with GLOBALFOUNDRIES having the ability to renew. 104 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies In the third quarter of 2014, the company recorded a pre-tax charge of $4.7 billion related to the sale of the Microelectronics disposal group, which was part of the Systems reportable segment. The pre-tax charge reflected the fair value less the estimated cost of selling the disposal group including an impairment to the semiconductor long-lived assets of $2.4 billion, $1.5 billion representing the cash consideration expected to be transferred to GLOBALFOUNDRIES and $0.8 billion of other related costs. Additional pre-tax charges of $116 million were recorded during 2015 related to the disposal, and pre-tax charges of less than $1 million were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2016. The cumulative pre-tax charge was $4.8 billion as of December 31, 2016. Any additional charges that may be recorded in future periods are expected to be immaterial. Reporting the related assets and liabilities initially as held for sale at September 30, 2014 was based on meeting all of the criteria for such reporting in the applicable accounting guidance. While the company met certain criteria for held for sale reporting in prior periods, it did not meet all of the criteria until September 30, 2014. In addition, at September 30, 2014, the company concluded that the Microelectronics business met the criteria for discontinued operations reporting. The disposal group constituted a component under accounting guidance. The continuing cash inflows and outflows with the discontinued component are related to the manufacturing sourcing arrangement and the transition, packaging and test services. These cash flows are not direct cash flows as they are not significant and the company has no significant continuing involvement. All assets and liabilities of the business, classified as held for sale at June 30, 2015, were transferred at closing. The company transferred $515 million of net cash to GLOBALFOUNDRIES in the third quarter of 2015. This amount included $750 million of cash consideration, adjusted by the amount of working capital due from GLOBALFOUNDRIES and other miscellaneous items. A second cash payment in the amount of $500 million was transferred in December 2016. The remaining cash consideration of $250 million is expected to be transferred in December 2017. Summarized financial information for discontinued operations is shown below. ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Total revenue $ 0 $ 720 $ 1,335 Loss from discontinued operations, before tax (11 ) (175 ) (619 ) Loss on disposal, before tax 0 (116 ) (4,726 ) Total loss from discontinued operations, before income taxes (11 ) (291 ) (5,346 ) Provision/(benefit) for income taxes (2 ) (117 ) (1,617 ) Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (9 ) $ (174 ) $ (3,729 ) Industry Standard Server On January 23, 2014, IBM and Lenovo Group Limited (Lenovo) announced a definitive agreement in which Lenovo would acquire the companys industry standard server portfolio (System x) for an adjusted purchase price of $2.1 billion, consisting of approximately $1.8 billion in cash, with the balance in Lenovo common stock. The stock represented less than 5 percent equity ownership in Lenovo. The company sold to Lenovo its System x, BladeCenter and Flex System blade servers and switches, x86-based Flex integrated systems, NeXtScale and iDataPlex servers and associated software, blade networking and maintenance operations. As of March 31, 2016, all Lenovo common stock was sold. IBM and Lenovo entered into a strategic relationship which included a global OEM and reseller agreement for sales of IBMs industry-leading entry and midrange Storwize disk storage systems, tape storage systems, General Parallel File System software, SmartCloud Entry offering, and elements of IBMs system software, including Systems Director and Platform Computing solutions. Effective with the initial closing of the transaction, Lenovo assumed related customer service and maintenance operations. IBM will continue to provide maintenance delivery on Lenovos behalf for an extended period of time. In addition, as part of the transaction agreement, the company is providing Lenovo with certain transition services, including IT and supply chain services. The initial term for these transition services ranged from less than one year to three years. Certain services could be renewed by Lenovo for an additional year. 105 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The initial closing was completed on October 1, 2014. A subsequent closing occurred in most other countries in which there was a large business footprint on December 31, 2014. The remaining countries closed on March 31, 2015. An assessment of the ongoing contractual terms of the transaction resulted in the recognition of pre-tax gains of $63 million and $57 million in 2015 and 2016, respectively. Overall, the company expects to recognize a total pre-tax gain on the sale of approximately $1.6 billion, which does not include associated costs related to transition and performance-based costs. Net of these charges, the pre-tax gain was approximately $1.3 billion, of which the cumulative gain recorded as of December 31, 2016 is $1.2 billion. The balance of the gain is expected to be recognized in 2019 upon conclusion of the maintenance agreement. Customer Care On September 10, 2013, IBM and SYNNEX announced a definitive agreement in which SYNNEX would acquire the companys worldwide customer care business process outsourcing services business for $501 million, consisting of approximately $430 million in cash, net of balance sheet adjustments, and $71 million in SYNNEX common stock, which represented less than 5 percent equity ownership in SYNNEX. As part of the transaction, SYNNEX entered into a multi-year agreement with the company, and Concentrix, SYNNEXs outsourcing business, became an IBM strategic business partner for global customer care business process outsourcing services. The initial closing was completed on January 31, 2014, with subsequent closings occurring during 2014. For the full year of 2014, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $202 million related to this transaction. In the second quarter of 2015, resolution of the final balance sheet adjustments was concluded. An assessment of the ongoing contractual terms of the transaction resulted in the recognition of a pre-tax gain of $7 million in 2015. Through December 31, 2016, the cumulative pre-tax gain attributed to this transaction was $213 million. Others In addition to those above, the company completed the following divestitures: 2016In the first quarter of 2016, the company completed four software product-related divestitures. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the company completed the divestiture of one service-related offering. The financial terms related to these transactions were not material. Overall, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $42 million related to these transactions in 2016. 2015In the first quarter of 2015, the company completed two software product-related divestitures and in the second quarter, the company completed one software product-related divestiture and the divestiture of one Global Business Services offering. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the company completed three software product-related divestitures. The financial terms related to these transactions were not material. Overall, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $81 million related to these transactions in 2015. 2014In the second quarter of 2014, the company completed one software product-related divestiture and the divestiture of one Global Business Services offering. In the third quarter, the company completed four software product-related divestitures. In the fourth quarter of 2014, the company completed two software product-related divestitures. The financial terms related to these transactions were not material. Overall, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $132 million related to these transactions in 2014. 106 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies NOTE D. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Fair Value Measurements Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The following tables present the companys financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2016 and 2015. ($ in millions) At December 31, 2016: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash equivalents (1) Time deposits and certificates of deposit $ $ 3,629 $ $ 3,629 Money market funds 1,204 1,204 Total 1,204 3,629 4,832 (6) Debt securitiescurrent (2) 699 699 (6) Debt securitiesnoncurrent (3) 1 6 8 Available-for-sale equity investments (3) 7 7 Derivative assets (4) Interest rate contracts 555 555 Foreign exchange contracts 560 560 Equity contracts 11 11 Total 1,126 1,126 (7) Total assets $ 1,212 $ 5,460 $ $ 6,672 (7) Liabilities Derivative liabilities (5) Foreign exchange contracts $ $ 188 $ $ 188 Equity contracts 10 10 Interest rate contracts 8 8 Total liabilities $ $ 206 $ $ 206 (7) (1) Included within cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (2) U.S. government securities reported as marketable securities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (3) Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (4) The gross balances of derivative assets contained within prepaid expenses and other current assets, and investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2016 were $532 million and $594 million, respectively (5) The gross balances of derivative liabilities contained within other accrued expenses and liabilities, and other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2016 were $145 million and $61 million, respectively (6) Available-for-sale securities with carrying values that approximate fair value (7) If derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement had been netted in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the total derivative asset and liability positions each would have been reduced by $116 million. 107 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) At December 31, 2015: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash equivalents (1) Time deposits and certificates of deposit $ $ 2,856 $ $ 2,856 Money market funds 2,069 2,069 Other securities 18 18 Total 2,069 2,874 4,943 (6) Debt securitiescurrent (2) 506 506 (6) Debt securitiesnoncurrent (3) 1 6 8 Trading security investments (3) 28 28 Available-for-sale equity investments (3) 192 192 Derivative assets (4) Interest rate contracts 656 656 Foreign exchange contracts 332 332 Equity contracts 6 6 Total 994 994 (7) Total assets $ 2,290 $ 4,381 $ $ 6,671 (7) Liabilities Derivative liabilities (5) Foreign exchange contracts $ $ 164 $ $ 164 Equity contracts 19 19 Interest rate contracts 3 3 Total liabilities $ $ 186 $ $ 186 (7) (1) Included within cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (2) Commercial paper and certificates of deposit reported as marketable securities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (3) Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (4) The gross balances of derivative assets contained within prepaid expenses and other current assets, and investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2015 were $292 million and $702 million, respectively (5) The gross balances of derivative liabilities contained within other accrued expenses and liabilities, and other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2015 were $164 million and $22 million, respectively (6) Available-for-sale securities with carrying values that approximate fair value (7) If derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement had been netted in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the total derivative asset and liability positions would have been reduced by $139 million each. There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. 108 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Financial Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value Short-Term Receivables and Payables Notes and other accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value. Accounts payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt (excluding the current portion of long-term debt) are financial liabilities with carrying values that approximate fair value. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Loans and Long-Term Receivables Fair values are based on discounted future cash flows using current interest rates offered for similar loans to clients with similar credit ratings for the same remaining maturities. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value for loans and long-term receivables was immaterial. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Long-Term Debt Fair value of publicly traded long-term debt is based on quoted market prices for the identical liability when traded as an asset in an active market. For other long-term debt for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value. The carrying amount of long-term debt is $34,655 million and $33,428 million and the estimated fair value is $36,838 million and $35,220 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, long-term debt (including the current portion) would be classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Debt and Marketable Equity Securities The companys cash equivalents and current debt securities are considered available-for-sale and recorded at fair value, which is not materially different from carrying value, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The following tables summarize the companys noncurrent debt and marketable equity securities which are also considered available-for-sale and recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. ($ in millions) Gross Gross Adjusted Unrealized Unrealized Fair At December 31, 2016: Cost Gains Losses Value Debt securitiesnoncurrent (1) $ 5 $ 3 $ $ 8 Available-for-sale equity investments (1) $ 3 $ 5 $ 0 $ 7 (1) Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position ($ in millions) Gross Gross Adjusted Unrealized Unrealized Fair At December 31, 2015: Cost Gains Losses Value Debt securitiesnoncurrent (1) $ 5 $ 3 $ $ 8 Available-for-sale equity investments (1) $ 186 $ 6 $ 0 $ 192 (1) Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position During the fourth quarter of 2014, the company acquired equity securities in conjunction with the sale of the System x business which were classified as available-for-sale securities. Based on an evaluation of available evidence as of December 31, 2015, the company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment loss of $86 million resulting in an adjusted cost basis of $185 million as of December 31, 2015. In the first quarter of 2016, the company recorded a gross realized loss of $37 million (before taxes) related to the sale of all the outstanding shares. The loss on this sale was recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Sales of debt and available-for-sale equity investments during the period were as follows: ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Proceeds $ 151 $ 8 $ 21 Gross realized gains (before taxes) 3 1 0 Gross realized losses (before taxes) 37 1 5 109 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The after-tax net unrealized gains/(losses) on available-for-sale debt and equity securities that have been included in other comprehensive income/(loss) and the after-tax net (gains)/ losses reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) to net income were as follows: ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 Net unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ (23 ) $ (33 ) Net unrealized (gains)/losses reclassified to net income* 21 53 * Includes pre-tax writedowns of $86 million in 2015. There were no writedowns in 2016. The contractual maturities of substantially all available-for-sale debt securities are less than one year at December 31, 2016. Derivative Financial Instruments The company operates in multiple functional currencies and is a significant lender and borrower in the global markets. In the normal course of business, the company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, and to a lesser extent equity and commodity price changes and client credit risk. The company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives, and, where cost effective, financing with debt in the currencies in which assets are denominated. For interest rate exposures, derivatives are used to better align rate movements between the interest rates associated with the companys lease and other financial assets and the interest rates associated with its financing debt. Derivatives are also used to manage the related cost of debt. For foreign currency exposures, derivatives are used to better manage the cash flow volatility arising from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. As a result of the use of derivative instruments, the company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based upon their overall credit profile. The companys established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk on principal transactions include reviewing and establishing limits for credit exposure and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties. The right of set-off that exists under certain of these arrangements enables the legal entities of the company subject to the arrangement to net amounts due to and from the counterparty reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default. The company is also a party to collateral security arrangements with most of its major derivative counterparties. These arrangements require the company to hold or post collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury securities) when the derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds. Posting thresholds can be fixed or can vary based on credit default swap pricing or credit ratings received from the major credit agencies. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability position at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $11 million and $28 million, respectively, for which no collateral was posted at either date. Full collateralization of these agreements would be required in the event that the companys credit rating falls below investment grade or if its credit default swap spread exceeds 250 basis points, as applicable, pursuant to the terms of the collateral security arrangements. The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset positions as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $1,126 million and $994 million, respectively. This amount represents the maximum exposure to loss at the reporting date if the counterparties failed to perform as contracted. This exposure was reduced by $116 million and $139 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, of liabilities included in master netting arrangements with those counterparties. Additionally, at December 31, 2016 and 2015, this exposure was reduced by $141 million and $90 million of cash collateral and $35 million and $40 million of non-cash collateral in U.S. Treasury securities, respectively, received by the company. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $834 million and $726 million, respectively. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the net exposure related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $90 million and $47 million, respectively. In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments. No amount was recognized in other receivables at December 31, 2016 and 2015 for the right to reclaim cash collateral. The amount recognized in accounts payable for the obligation to return cash collateral was $141 million and $90 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The company restricts the use of cash collateral received to rehypothecation, and therefore reports it in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. No amount was rehypothecated at December 31, 2016 and 2015. The company may employ derivative instruments to hedge the volatility in stockholders equity resulting from changes in currency exchange rates of significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect to the U.S. dollar. These instruments, designated as net investment hedges, expose the company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not offset by a cash flow from the translation of the underlying hedged equity. The company monitors this cash loss potential on an ongoing basis, and may discontinue some of these hedging relationships by de-designating or terminating the derivative instrument in order to manage the liquidity risk. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to offset the changes in the fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity. In its hedging programs, the company uses forward contracts, futures contracts, interest-rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and options depending upon the underlying exposure. The company is not a party to leveraged derivative instruments. A brief description of the major hedging programs, categorized by underlying risk, follows. 110 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Interest Rate Risk Fixed and Variable Rate Borrowings The company issues debt in the global capital markets to fund its operations and financing business. Access to cost-effective financing can result in interest rate mismatches with the underlying assets. To manage these mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the company uses interest rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt issuances into variable-rate debt (i.e., fair value hedges) and to convert specific variable-rate debt issuances into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow hedges). At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the total notional amount of the companys interest rate swaps was $7.3 billion at both periods. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was approximately 6.2 years and 7.2 years, respectively. Forecasted Debt Issuance The company is exposed to interest rate volatility on future debt issuances. To manage this risk, the company may use forward-starting interest rate swaps to lock in the rate on the interest payments related to the forecasted debt issuance. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at December 31, 2016 and 2015. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, net gains of less than $1 million (before taxes), respectively, were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) in connection with cash flow hedges of the companys borrowings. Within these amounts, less than $1 million of gains, respectively, are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying transactions. Foreign Exchange Risk Long-Term Investments in Foreign Subsidiaries (Net Investment) A large portion of the companys foreign currency denominated debt portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders equity caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the functional currency of major foreign subsidiaries with respect to the U.S. dollar. The company also uses cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts for this risk management purpose. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the total notional amount of derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges was $6.7 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was approximately 0.2 years at both periods. Anticipated Royalties and Cost Transactions The companys operations generate significant nonfunctional currency, third-party vendor payments and intercompany payments for royalties and goods and services among the companys non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the parent company. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its currency risk. These forward contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is four years. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactions was $8.3 billion and $8.2 billion, respectively, with a weighted-average remaining maturity of 0.7 years at both periods. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, in connection with cash flow hedges of anticipated royalties and cost transactions, the company recorded net gains of $462 million and net gains of $147 million (before taxes), respectively, in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). Within these amounts $397 million of gains and $121 million of gains, respectively, are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions. Foreign Currency Denominated Borrowings The company is exposed to exchange rate volatility on foreign currency denominated debt. To manage this risk, the company employs cross-currency swaps to convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is approximately nine years. At December 31, 2016, the total notional amount of cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated debt was $1.4 billion. At December 31, 2015, no amounts were outstanding under this program. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, in connection with cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated borrowings, the company recorded net gains of $29 million and net losses of $2 million (before taxes), respectively, in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). Within these amounts, $27 million of gains and less than $1 million of losses, respectively, are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying exposure. Subsidiary Cash and Foreign Currency Asset/Liability Management The company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the companys nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year. The changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the underlying hedged exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of foreign currency exposure was $12.7 billion and $11.7 billion, respectively. Equity Risk Management The company is exposed to market price changes in certain broad market indices and in the companys own stock primarily related to certain obligations to employees. Changes in the overall value of these employee compensation obligations are recorded in SG&A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company utilizes derivatives, including equity swaps and futures, 111 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies to economically hedge the exposures related to its employee compensation obligations. The derivatives are linked to the total return on certain broad market indices or the total return on the companys common stock, and are recorded at fair value with gains or losses also reported in SG&A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of these compensation obligations was $1.2 billion at both periods. Other Risks The company may hold warrants to purchase shares of common stock in connection with various investments that are deemed derivatives because they contain net share or net cash settlement provisions. The company records the changes in the fair value of these warrants in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company did not have any warrants qualifying as derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2016 and 2015. The company is exposed to a potential loss if a client fails to pay amounts due under contractual terms. The company may utilize credit default swaps to economically hedge its credit exposures. The swaps are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at December 31, 2016 and 2015. The company is exposed to market volatility on certain investment securities. The company may utilize options or forwards to economically hedge its market exposure. The derivatives are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31, 2016, the company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding. At December 31, 2015, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of investment securities was less than $0.1 billion. The following tables provide a quantitative summary of the derivative and non-derivative instrument-related risk management activity as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, as well as for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Fair Values of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position ($ in millions) Fair Value of Derivative Assets Fair Value of Derivative Liabilities Balance Sheet Balance Sheet At December 31: Classification 2016 2015 Classification 2016 2015 Designated as hedging instruments Interest rate contracts Prepaid expenses and other current assets $ $ Other accrued expenses and liabilities $ $ Investments and sundry assets 555 656 Other liabilities 8 3 Foreign exchange contracts Prepaid expenses and other current assets 421 197 Other accrued expenses and liabilities 46 70 Investments and sundry assets 17 5 Other liabilities 35 19 Fair value of derivative asset s $ 993 $ 858 Fair value of derivative liabilities $ 89 $ 92 Not designated as hedging instruments Foreign exchange contracts Prepaid expenses and other current assets $ 100 $ 90 Other accrued expenses and liabilities $ 89 $ 75 Investments and sundry assets 22 40 Other liabilities 18 Equity contracts Prepaid expenses and other current assets 11 6 Other accrued expenses and liabilities 10 19 Investments and sundry assets Other liabilities Fair value of derivative assets $ 133 $ 136 Fair value of derivative liabilities $ 117 $ 94 Total debt designated as hedging instruments Short-term debt N/A N/A $ 1,125 $ Long-term debt N/A N/A $ 7,844 $ 7,945 Total $ 1,126 $ 994 $ 9,175 $ 8,131 N/ANot applicable 112 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The Effect of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings ($ in millions) Gain/(Loss) Recognized in Earnings Consolidated Statement of Attributable to Risk Earnings Line Recognized on Derivatives Being Hedged (2) For the year ended December 31: Item 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Derivative instruments in fair value hedges (1) (5) Interest rate contracts Cost of financing $ 28 $ 108 $ 231 $ 58 $ (1 ) $ (127 ) Interest expense 31 94 206 63 (1 ) (114 ) Derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments Foreign exchange contracts Other (income) and expense (189 ) 127 (776 ) N/A N/A N/A Interest rate contracts Other (income) and expense 0 (1 ) 34 N/A N/A N/A Equity contracts SG&A expense 112 (27 ) 51 N/A N/A N/A Other (income) and expense (1 ) (9 ) (9 ) N/A N/A N/A Total $ (18 ) $ 291 $ (263 ) $ 121 $ (1 ) $ (241 ) ($ in millions) Gain/(Loss) Recognized in Earnings and Other Comprehensive Income Consolidated Ineffectiveness and Effective Portion Statement of Effective Portion Amounts Excluded from For the year ended Recognized in OCI Earnings Line Reclassified from AOCI Effectiveness Testing (3) December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Item 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Derivative instruments in cash flow hedges Interest rate contracts $ $ $ Interest expense $ (24 ) $ 0 $ (1 ) $ $ $ Foreign exchange contracts 243 618 958 Other (income) and expense (68 ) 731 98 (3 ) 5 (1 ) Cost (13 ) 192 (15 ) SG&A expense 4 149 15 Instruments in net investment hedges (4) Foreign exchange contracts 311 889 1,136 Interest expense 77 13 0 Total $ 555 $ 1,507 $ 2,095 $ (102 ) $ 1,072 $ 97 $ 74 $ 18 $ (1 ) (1) The amount includes changes in clean fair values of the derivative instruments in fair value hedging relationships and the periodic accrual for coupon payments required under these derivative contracts. (2) The amount includes basis adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged item recorded during the period and amortization of basis adjustments recorded on de-designated hedging relationships during the period. (3) The amount of gain/(loss) recognized in income represents ineffectiveness on hedge relationships. (4) Instruments in net investment hedges include derivative and non-derivative instruments. (5) For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, fair value hedges resulted in a loss of $4 million, a loss of $2 million and a gain of $4 million in ineffectiveness, respectively. N/ANot applicable 113 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies For the 12 months ending December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, there were no significant gains or losses recognized in earnings representing hedge ineffectiveness or excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (for fair value hedges), or associated with an underlying exposure that did not or was not expected to occur (for cash flow hedges); nor are there any anticipated in the normal course of business. NOTE E. INVENTORIES ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 Finished goods $ 358 $ 352 Work in process and raw materials 1,195 1,199 Total $ 1,553 $ 1,551 NOTE F. FINANCING RECEIVABLES The following table presents financing receivables, net of allowances for credit losses, including residual values. ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 Current Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases $ 2,909 $ 3,057 Commercial financing receivables 9,706 8,948 Client loan and installment payment receivables (loans) 6,390 7,015 Total $ 19,006 $ 19,020 Noncurrent Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases $ 3,950 $ 4,501 Client loan and installment payment receivables (loans) 5,071 5,512 Total $ 9,021 $ 10,013 Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases relates principally to the companys systems products and are for terms ranging generally from two to six years. Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases includes unguaranteed residual values of $585 million and $645 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and is reflected net of unearned income of $513 million and $536 million, and net of the allowance for credit losses of $133 million and $213 million at those dates, respectively. Scheduled maturities of minimum lease payments outstanding at December 31, 2016, expressed as a percentage of the total, are approximately: 2017, 46 percent; 2018, 29 percent; 2019, 16 percent; 2020, 6 percent; and 2021 and beyond, 2 percent. Commercial financing receivables, net of allowance for credit losses of $28 million and $19 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, relate primarily to inventory and accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. Payment terms for inventory and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30 to 90 days. Client loan and installment payment receivables (loans), net of allowance for credit losses of $276 million and $377 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, are loans that are provided primarily to clients to finance the purchase of hardware, software and services. Payment terms on these financing arrangements are generally for terms up to seven years. Client loan and installment payment financing contracts are priced independently at competitive market rates. The company has a history of enforcing these financing agreements. The allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2016 reflects a write-off in the fourth quarter of $188 million of previously reserved customer accounts as a result of recent experience and history across the portfolio, particularly in China. Of this total, $41 million was in major markets and $147 million in growth markets and $73 million and $115 million was in lease receivables and loan receivables, respectively. The company utilizes certain of its financing receivables as collateral for nonrecourse borrowings. Financing receivables pledged as collateral for borrowings were $689 million and $545 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. These borrowings are included in note J, Borrowings, on pages 120 to 122. The company did not have any financing receivables held for sale as of December 31, 2016 and 2015. Financing Receivables by Portfolio Segment The following tables present financing receivables on a gross basis, excluding the allowance for credit losses and residual value, by portfolio segment and by class, excluding current commercial financing receivables and other miscellaneous current financing receivables at December 31, 2016 and 2015. The company determines its allowance for credit losses based on two portfolio segments: lease receivables and loan receivables, and further segments the portfolio into two classes: major markets and growth markets. 114 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) Major Growth At December 31, 2016: Markets Markets Total Financing receivables Lease receivables $ 5,013 $ 1,323 $ 6,336 Loan receivables 9,148 2,589 11,737 Ending balance $ 14,161 $ 3,912 $ 18,073 Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 14,119 $ 3,646 $ 17,765 Individually evaluated for impairment $ 43 $ 266 $ 309 Allowance for credit losses Beginning balance at January 1, 2016 Lease receivables $ 25 $ 188 $ 213 Loan receivables 83 293 377 Total $ 109 $ 481 $ 590 Write-offs (59 ) (176 ) (235 ) Provision 7 51 58 Other 0 (3 ) (3 ) Ending balance at December 31, 2016 $ 57 $ 353 $ 410 Lease receivables $ 6 $ 127 $ 133 Loan receivables $ 51 $ 225 $ 276 Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 30 $ 98 $ 128 Individually evaluated for impairment $ 27 $ 255 $ 281 ($ in millions) Major Growth At December 31, 2015: Markets Markets Total Financing receivables Lease receivables $ 5,517 $ 1,524 $ 7,041 Loan receivables 9,739 3,165 12,904 Ending balance $ 15,256 $ 4,689 $ 19,945 Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 15,180 $ 4,227 $ 19,406 Individually evaluated for impairment $ 76 $ 462 $ 539 Allowance for credit losses Beginning balance at January 1, 2015 Lease receivables $ 32 $ 133 $ 165 Loan receivables 79 317 396 Total $ 111 $ 450 $ 561 Write-offs (14 ) (48 ) (62 ) Provision 20 122 141 Other (8 ) (43 ) (51 ) Ending balance at December 31, 2015 $ 109 $ 481 $ 590 Lease receivables $ 25 $ 188 $ 213 Loan receivables $ 83 $ 293 $ 377 Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 43 $ 36 $ 79 Individually evaluated for impairment $ 65 $ 445 $ 511 When determining the allowances, financing receivables are evaluated either on an individual or a collective basis. For individually evaluated receivables, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve. In addition, the company records an unallocated reserve that is calculated by applying a reserve rate to its different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been specifically reserved. This reserve rate is based upon credit rating, probability of default, term, characteristics (lease/loan) and loss history. 115 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Financing Receivables on Non-Accrual Status The following table presents the recorded investment in financing receivables which were on non-accrual status at December 31, 2016 and 2015. ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 Major markets $ 2 $ 2 Growth markets 38 63 Total lease receivables $ 40 $ 65 Major markets $ 19 $ 13 Growth markets 127 91 Total loan receivables $ 145 $ 104 Total receivables $ 185 $ 168 Impaired Loans The company considers any loan with an individually evaluated reserve as an impaired loan. Depending on the level of impairment, loans will also be placed on a non-accrual status. The following tables present impaired client loan receivables at December 31, 2016 and 2015. ($ in millions) Recorded Related At December 31, 2016: Investment Allowance Major markets $ 31 $ 28 Growth markets 191 185 Total $ 223 $ 213 ($ in millions) Recorded Related At December 31, 2015: Investment Allowance Major markets $ 50 $ 47 Growth markets 297 284 Total $ 347 $ 331 ($ in millions) Interest Income Average Interest Recognized For the year ended Recorded Income on Cash December 31, 2016: Investment Recognized Basis Major markets $ 55 $ 0 $ Growth markets 284 0 Total $ 339 $ 0 $ ($ in millions) Interest Income Average Interest Recognized For the year ended Recorded Income on Cash December 31, 2015: Investment Recognized Basis Major markets $ 51 $ 0 $ Growth markets 315 0 Total $ 367 $ 0 $ Credit Quality Indicators The companys credit quality indicators, which are based on rating agency data, publicly available information and information provided by customers, are reviewed periodically based on the relative level of risk. The resulting indicators are a numerical rating system that maps to Moodys Investors Service credit ratings as shown below. The company uses information provided by Moodys, where available, as one of many inputs in its determination of customer credit rating. The tables present the net recorded investment for each class of receivables, by credit quality indicator, at December 31, 2016 and 2015. Receivables with a credit quality indicator ranging from Aaa to Baa3 are considered investment grade. All others are considered non-investment grade. The credit quality indicators do not reflect mitigation actions that the company may take to transfer credit risk to third parties. Lease Receivables ($ in millions) Major Growth At December 31, 2016: Markets Markets Credit rating Aaa Aa3 $ 496 $ 44 A1 A3 1,162 181 Baa1 Baa3 1,381 140 Ba1 Ba2 1,144 246 Ba3 B1 566 313 B2 B3 271 163 Caa D 26 69 Total $ 5,047 $ 1,156 116 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Loan Receivables ($ in millions) Major Growth At December 31, 2016: Markets Markets Credit rating Aaa Aa3 $ 904 $ 87 A1 A3 2,117 355 Baa1 Baa3 2,515 274 Ba1 Ba2 2,084 483 Ba3 B1 1,031 613 B2 B3 494 320 Caa D 48 135 Total $ 9,193 $ 2,268 At December 31, 2016, the industries which made up Global Financings receivables portfolio consisted of: Financial (34 percent), Government (14 percent), Manufacturing (13 percent), Services (12 percent), Retail (8 percent), Communications (7 percent), Healthcare (6 percent) and Other (6 percent). Lease Receivables ($ in millions) Major Growth At December 31, 2015:* Markets Markets Credit rating Aaa Aa3 $ 535 $ 34 A1 A3 1,318 142 Baa1 Baa3 1,486 343 Ba1 Ba2 1,208 309 Ba3 B1 510 243 B2 B3 401 189 Caa D 33 76 Total $ 5,492 $ 1,336 * Reclassified to conform to 2016 presentation Loan Receivables ($ in millions) Major Growth At December 31, 2015:* Markets Markets Credit rating Aaa Aa3 $ 941 $ 73 A1 A3 2,318 305 Baa1 Baa3 2,613 738 Ba1 Ba2 2,125 664 Ba3 B1 897 522 B2 B3 705 406 Caa D 58 164 Total $ 9,656 $ 2,872 * Reclassified to conform to 2016 presentation At December 31, 2015, the industries which made up Global Financings receivables portfolio consisted of: Financial (36 percent), Manufacturing (14 percent), Government (11 percent), Services (11 percent), Retail (9 percent), Communications (7 percent), Healthcare (6 percent) and Other (6 percent). 117 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Past Due Financing Receivables ($ in millions) Fully 90 Days and At December 31, 2016: > 90 Days(1) Receivables Receivables Receivables Accruing(2) Major markets $ 8 $ 11 $ 4,994 $ 5,013 $ 34 Growth markets 23 78 1,222 1,323 77 Total lease receivables $ 31 $ 89 $ 6,216 $ 6,336 $ 111 Major markets $ 15 $ 5 $ 9,129 $ 9,148 $ 62 Growth markets 16 177 2,396 2,589 80 Total loan receivables $ 31 $ 182 $ 11,524 $ 11,737 $ 141 Total $ 62 $ 271 $ 17,740 $ 18,073 $ 253 (1) Only the portion of a financing receivable which is greater than 90 days past due, excluding amounts that are fully reserved. (2) At a contract level, which includes total billed and unbilled amounts for aged financing receivables greater than 90 days ($ in millions) Fully 90 Days and At December 31, 2015:* > 90 Days(1) Receivables Receivables Receivables Accruing(2) Major markets $ 5 $ 33 $ 5,479 $ 5,517 $ 108 Growth markets 30 140 1,355 1,524 60 Total lease receivables $ 35 $ 173 $ 6,834 $ 7,041 $ 168 Major markets $ 7 $ 35 $ 9,696 $ 9,739 $ 134 Growth markets 31 309 2,825 3,165 86 Total loan receivables $ 38 $ 344 $ 12,521 $ 12,904 $ 220 Total $ 73 $ 517 $ 19,355 $ 19,945 $ 388 (1) Only the portion of a financing receivable which is greater than 90 days past due, excluding amounts that are fully reserved. (2) At a contract level, which includes total billed and unbilled amounts for aged financing receivables greater than 90 days * Reclassified to conform to 2016 presentation Troubled Debt Restructurings The company assessed all restructurings that occurred on or after January 1, 2015 and determined that there were no significant troubled debt restructurings for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. NOTE G. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 Land and land improvements $ 506 $ 558 Buildings and building improvements 6,326 6,552 Plant, laboratory and office equipment 22,318 21,116 Plant and other propertygross 29,150 28,226 Less: Accumulated depreciation 18,842 18,051 Plant and other propertynet 10,308 10,176 Rental machines 984 1,115 Less: Accumulated depreciation 461 565 Rental machinesnet 523 551 Totalnet $ 10,830 $ 10,727 In 2016, the company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge related to certain property, plant and equipment of $215 million. The remaining fair value of these assets is not material. There were no material pre-tax impairment charges related to property, plant and equipment in 2015. 118 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies NOTE H. INVESTMENTS AND SUNDRY ASSETS ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 Deferred transition and setup costs and other deferred arrangements* $ 1,497 $ 1,624 Derivativesnoncurrent 594 702 Alliance investments Equity method 85 82 Non-equity method 19 393 Prepaid software 230 273 Long-term deposits 267 256 Other receivables 416 516 Employee benefit-related 272 273 Prepaid income taxes 477 496 Other assets 729 571 Total $ 4,585 $ 5,187 * Deferred transition and setup costs and other deferred arrangements are related to services client arrangements. Refer to note A, Significant Accounting Policies, on page 93 for additional information. NOTE I. INTANGIBLE ASSETS INCLUDING GOODWILL Intangible Assets The following table details the companys intangible asset balances by major asset class. ($ in millions) Gross Net Carrying Accumulated Carrying At December 31, 2016: Amount Amortization Amount Intangible asset class Capitalized software $ 1,537 $ (661 ) $ 876 Client relationships 2,831 (1,228 ) 1,602 Completed technology 3,322 (1,668 ) 1,654 Patents/trademarks 730 (205 ) 525 Other* 46 (15 ) 31 Total $ 8,466 $ (3,778 ) $ 4,688 * Other intangibles are primarily acquired proprietary and nonproprietary business processes, methodologies and systems. ($ in millions) Gross Net Carrying Accumulated Carrying At December 31, 2015: Amount Amortization Amount Intangible asset class Capitalized software $ 1,348 $ (581 ) $ 767 Client relationships 1,856 (927 ) 929 Completed technology 2,960 (1,397 ) 1,563 Patents/trademarks 335 (142 ) 193 Other* 44 (10 ) 35 Total $ 6,543 $ (3,057 ) $ 3,487 * Other intangibles are primarily acquired proprietary and nonproprietary business processes, methodologies and systems. The net carrying amount of intangible assets increased $1,201 million during the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to intangible asset additions resulting from acquisitions, partially offset by amortization. There was no impairment of intangible assets recorded in 2016 and 2015. The aggregate intangible amortization expense was $1,544 million and $1,193 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In addition, in 2016 and 2015, respectively, the company retired $817 million and $1,809 million of fully amortized intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by this amount. The amortization expense for each of the five succeeding years relating to intangible assets currently recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is estimated to be the following at December 31, 2016: ($ in millions) Capitalized Acquired Software Intangibles Total 2017 $ 494 $ 957 $ 1,450 2018 300 809 1,109 2019 83 646 729 2020 547 547 2021 435 435 119 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Goodwill As described in note T, Segment Information, the company changed its reportable segments in January 2016. Goodwill was assigned to the new reportable segments on a fair value allocation basis. The changes in the goodwill balances by reportable segment, for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, are as follows: ($ in millions) Foreign Currency Balance Purchase Translation Balance January 1, Goodwill Price and Other December Segment 2016 Additions Adjustments Divestitures Adjustments* 31, 2016 Cognitive Solutions $ 15,621 $ 3,821 $ 5 $ (12 ) $ 48 $ 19,484 Global Business Services 4,396 303 4 (1 ) (95 ) 4,607 Technology Services & Cloud Platforms 10,156 119 (12 ) (5 ) (1 ) 10,258 Systems 1,848 (4 ) 5 1,850 Total $ 32,021 $ 4,244 $ (7 ) $ (18 ) $ (42 ) $ 36,199 * Primarily driven by foreign currency translation ($ in millions) Foreign Currency Balance Purchase Translation Balance January 1, Goodwill Price and Other December Segment 2015 Additions Adjustments Divestitures Adjustments* 31, 2015 Cognitive Solutions $ 15,156 $ 1,020 $ (2 ) $ (18 ) $ (535 ) $ 15,621 Global Business Services 4,555 74 0 (1 ) (232 ) 4,396 Technology Services & Cloud Platforms 9,373 1,087 (1 ) (7 ) (296 ) 10,156 Systems 1,472 410 0 (33 ) 1,848 Total $ 30,556 $ 2,590 $ (3 ) $ (26 ) $ (1,096 ) $ 32,021 * Primarily driven by foreign currency translation There were no goodwill impairment losses recorded during the full year of 2016 or 2015 and the company has no accumulated impairment losses. Purchase price adjustments recorded in 2016 and 2015 were related to acquisitions that were completed on or prior to September 30, 2016 or December 31, 2014, respectively, and were still subject to the measurement period that ends at the earlier of 12 months from the acquisition date or when information becomes available. Net purchase price adjustments of $7 million were recorded during 2016 with the primary drivers being deferred tax assets, accounts receivable, deferred income, inventory and other current liabilities. NOTE J. BORROWINGS Short-Term Debt ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 Commercial paper $ 899 $ 600 Short-term loans 375 590 Long-term debtcurrent maturities 6,239 5,271 Total $ 7,513 $ 6,461 The weighted-average interest rate for commercial paper at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was 0.7 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively. The weighted-average interest rates for short-term loans were 9.5 percent and 5.2 percent at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 120 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Long-Term Debt Pre-Swap Borrowing ($ in millions) At December 31: Maturities 2016 2015 U.S. dollar notes and debentures (average interest rate at December 31, 2016): 3.98% 2017 $ 5,104 $ 9,351 3.21% 20182019 8,856 7,591 1.84% 20202021 4,941 3,717 2.35% 2022 1,901 1,900 3.38% 2023 1,500 1,500 3.63% 2024 2,000 2,000 7.00% 2025 600 600 3.45% 2026 1,350 6.22% 2027 469 469 6.50% 2028 313 313 5.88% 2032 600 600 8.00% 2038 83 83 5.60% 2039 745 745 4.00% 2042 1,107 1,107 7.00% 2045 27 27 4.70% 2046 650 7.13% 2096 316 316 30,563 30,319 Other currencies (average interest rate at December 31, 2016, in parentheses): Euros (1.6%) 20192028 7,122 4,892 Pound sterling (2.7%) 20202022 1,296 1,555 Japanese yen (0.9%) 20172026 1,576 1,180 Swiss francs (6.3%) 2020 7 9 Canadian (2.2%) 2017 373 360 Other (11.0%) 20172020 208 506 41,145 38,820 Less: net unamortized discount 839 838 Less: net unamortized debt issuance costs 82 74 Add: fair value adjustment* 669 790 40,893 38,699 Less: current maturities 6,239 5,271 Total $ 34,655 $ 33,428 * The portion of the companys fixed-rate debt obligations that is hedged is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as an amount equal to the sum of the debts carrying value plus a fair value adjustment representing changes in the fair value of the hedged debt obligations attributable to movements in benchmark interest rates. There are no debt securities issued and outstanding by IBM International Group Capital LLC, which is an indirect, 100 percent owned finance subsidiary of International Business Machines Corporation, the parent. Any debt securities issued by IBM International Group Capital LLC, would be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the parent. The companys indenture governing its debt securities and its various credit facilities each contain significant covenants which obligate the company to promptly pay principal and interest, limit the aggregate amount of secured indebtedness and sale and leaseback transactions to 10 percent of the companys consolidated net tangible assets, and restrict the companys ability to merge or consolidate unless certain conditions are met. The credit facilities also include a covenant on the companys consolidated net interest expense ratio, which cannot be less than 2.20 to 1.0, as well as a cross default provision with respect to other defaulted indebtedness of at least $500 million. The company is in compliance with all of its significant debt covenants and provides periodic certifications to its lenders. The failure to comply with its debt covenants could constitute an event of default with respect to the debt to which such provisions apply. If certain events of default were to occur, the principal and interest on the debt to which such event of default applied would become immediately due and payable. 121 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Post-Swap Borrowing (Long-Term Debt, Including Current Portion) ($ in millions) 2016 2015 For the year ended December 31: Amount Average Rate Amount Average Rate Fixed-rate debt $ 27,414 3.18 % $ 25,499 3.41 % Floating-rate debt* 13,480 1.59 % 13,199 0.96 % Total $ 40,893 $ 38,699 * Includes $7,338 million in 2016 and 2015 of notional interest rate swaps that effectively convert fixed-rate long-term debt into floating-rate debt (See note D, Financial Instruments, on pages 110 through 114.) Pre-swap annual contractual maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2016, are as follows: ($ in millions) Total 2017 $ 6,239 2018 4,918 2019 5,196 2020 4,593 2021 3,914 2022 and beyond 16,284 Total $ 41,145 Interest on Debt ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Cost of financing $ 576 $ 540 $ 542 Interest expense 706 481 484 Net investment derivative activity (77 ) (13 ) 0 Interest capitalized 2 0 4 Total interest paid and accrued $ 1,208 $ 1,008 $ 1,030 Refer to the related discussion on page 152 in note T, Segment Information, for total interest expense of the Global Financing segment. See note D, Financial Instruments, on pages 110 through 114 for a discussion of the use of currency and interest rate swaps in the companys debt risk management program. Lines of Credit In 2016, the company increased the size of its five-year Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) to $10.25 billion and extended the term by one year to November 10, 2021. The total expense recorded by the company related to this global credit facility was $5.5 million in 2016, $5.3 million in 2015 and $5.4 million in 2014. The Credit Agreement permits the company and its Subsidiary Borrowers to borrow up to $10.25 billion on a revolving basis. Borrowings of the Subsidiary Borrowers will be unconditionally backed by the company. The company may also, upon the agreement of either existing lenders, or of the additional banks not currently party to the Credit Agreement, increase the commitments under the Credit Agreement up to an additional $1.75 billion. Subject to certain terms of the Credit Agreement, the company and Subsidiary Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow amounts under the Credit Agreement at any time during the Credit Agreement. Interest rates on borrowings under the Credit Agreement will be based on prevailing market interest rates, as further described in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnification provisions. The company believes that circumstances that might give rise to breach of these covenants or an event of default, as specified in the Credit Agreement, are remote. As of December 31, 2016, there were no borrowings by the company, or its subsidiaries, under the Credit Agreement. The company also has other committed lines of credit in some of the geographies which are not significant in the aggregate. Interest rates and other terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from country to country, depending on local market conditions. 122 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies NOTE K. OTHER LIABILITIES ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 Income tax reserves $ 2,621 $ 3,150 Excess 401(k) Plus Plan 1,494 1,445 Disability benefits 538 590 Derivative liabilities 61 22 Special restructuring actions 358 362 Workforce reductions 424 407 Deferred taxes 424 253 Other taxes payable 90 89 Environmental accruals 262 270 Warranty accruals 68 83 Asset retirement obligations 142 134 Acquisition related 111 200 Divestiture related* 270 575 Other 613 519 Total $ 7,477 $ 8,099 * Primarily related to the divestiture of the Microelectronics business In response to changing business needs, the company periodically takes workforce reduction actions to improve productivity, cost competitiveness and to rebalance skills. The noncurrent contractually obligated future payments associated with these activities are reflected in the workforce reductions caption in the previous table. In addition, the company executed certain special restructuring-related actions prior to 2006. The previous table provides the noncurrent liabilities associated with these special actions. Current liabilities are included in other accrued expenses and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and were immaterial at December 31, 2016. The noncurrent liabilities are workforce accruals related to terminated employees who are no longer working for the company who were granted annual payments to supplement their incomes in certain countries. Depending on the individual countrys legal requirements, these required payments will continue until the former employee begins receiving pension benefits or passes away. The company employs extensive internal environmental protection programs that primarily are preventive in nature. The company also participates in environmental assessments and cleanups at a number of locations, including operating facilities, previously owned facilities and Superfund sites. The companys maximum exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts have been recorded for non-ARO environmental liabilities that are not probable or estimable. The total amounts accrued for non-ARO environmental liabilities, including amounts classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, that do not reflect actual or anticipated insurance recoveries, were $272 million and $283 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to materially affect the consolidated financial position or consolidated results of the companys operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup periods and changing environmental remediation regulations. As of December 31, 2016, the company was unable to estimate the range of settlement dates and the related probabilities for certain asbestos remediation AROs. These conditional AROs are primarily related to the encapsulated structural fireproofing that is not subject to abatement unless the buildings are demolished and non-encapsulated asbestos that the company would remediate only if it performed major renovations of certain existing buildings. Because these conditional obligations have indeterminate settlement dates, the company could not develop a reasonable estimate of their fair values. The company will continue to assess its ability to estimate fair values at each future reporting date. The related liability will be recognized once sufficient additional information becomes available. The total amounts accrued for ARO liabilities, including amounts classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position were $173 million and $166 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. NOTE L. EQUITY ACTIVITY The authorized capital stock of IBM consists of 4,687,500,000 shares of common stock with a $.20 per share par value, of which 945,867,403 shares were outstanding at December 31, 2016 and 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock with a $.01 per share par value, none of which were outstanding at December 31, 2016. Stock Repurchases The Board of Directors authorizes the company to repurchase IBM common stock. The company repurchased 23,283,400 common shares at a cost of $3,455 million, 30,338,647 common shares at a cost of $4,701 million and 71,504,867 common shares at a cost of $13,395 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These amounts reflect transactions executed through December 31 of each year. Actual cash disbursements for repurchased shares may differ due to varying settlement dates for these transactions. At December 31, 2016, $5,109 million of Board common stock repurchase authorization was available. The company plans to purchase shares on the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. 123 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Other Stock Transactions The company issued the following shares of common stock as part of its stock-based compensation plans and employees stock purchase plan: 3,893,366 shares in 2016, 6,013,875 shares in 2015, and 7,687,026 shares in 2014. The company issued 383,077 treasury shares in 2016, 1,155,558 treasury shares in 2015 and 1,264,232 treasury shares in 2014, as a result of restricted stock unit releases and exercises of stock options by employees of certain acquired businesses and by non-U.S. employees. Also, as part of the companys stock-based compensation plans, 854,365 common shares at a cost of $126 million, 1,625,820 common shares at a cost of $248 million, and 1,313,569 common shares at a cost of $236 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, were remitted by employees to the company in order to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. These amounts are included in the treasury stock balance in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. Reclassifications and Taxes Related to Items of Other Comprehensive Income ($ in millions) Before Tax Tax (Expense)/ Net of Tax For the year ended December 31, 2016: Amount Benefit Amount Other comprehensive income/(loss) Foreign currency translation adjustments $ (20 ) $ (120 ) $ (140 ) Net changes related to available-for-sale securities Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ (38 ) $ 14 $ (23 ) Reclassification of (gains)/losses to other (income) and expense 34 (13 ) 21 Total net changes related to available-for-sale securities $ (3 ) $ 1 $ (2 ) Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ 243 $ (80 ) $ 163 Reclassification of (gains)/losses to: Cost of sales 13 (8 ) 6 SG&A expense (4 ) (2 ) (7 ) Other (income) and expense 68 (26 ) 42 Interest expense 24 (9 ) 15 Total unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges $ 345 $ (126 ) $ 219 Retirement-related benefit plans (1) Net (losses)/gains arising during the period $ (2,490 ) $ 924 $ (1,566 ) Curtailments and settlements (16 ) 1 (15 ) Amortization of prior service (credits)/costs (107 ) 34 (74 ) Amortization of net (gains)/losses 2,764 (976 ) 1,788 Total retirement-related benefit plans $ 150 $ (19 ) $ 132 Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ 472 $ (263 ) $ 209 (1) These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See note S, Retirement-Related Benefits, for additional information.) 124 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) Before Tax Tax (Expense)/ Net of Tax For the year ended December 31, 2015: Amount Benefit Amount Other comprehensive income/(loss) Foreign currency translation adjustments $ (1,379 ) $ (342 ) $ (1,721 ) Net changes related to available-for-sale securities Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ (54 ) $ 21 $ (33 ) Reclassification of (gains)/losses to other (income) and expense 86 (33 ) 53 Total net changes related to available-for-sale securities $ 32 $ (12 ) $ 20 Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ 618 $ (218 ) $ 399 Reclassification of (gains)/losses to: Cost of sales (192 ) 57 (135 ) SG&A expense (149 ) 43 (105 ) Other (income) and expense (731 ) 281 (451 ) Interest expense 0 0 0 Total unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges $ (454 ) $ 162 $ (292 ) Retirement-related benefit plans (1) Prior service costs/(credits) $ 6 $ (2 ) $ 4 Net (losses)/gains arising during the period (2,963 ) 1,039 (1,925 ) Curtailments and settlements 33 (9 ) 24 Amortization of prior service (credits)/costs (100 ) 36 (65 ) Amortization of net (gains)/losses 3,304 (1,080 ) 2,223 Total retirement-related benefit plans $ 279 $ (17 ) $ 262 Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ (1,523 ) $ (208 ) $ (1,731 ) (1) These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See note S, Retirement-Related Benefits, for additional information.) 125 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) Before Tax Tax (Expense)/ Net of Tax For the year ended December 31, 2014: Amount Benefit Amount Other comprehensive income/(loss) Foreign currency translation adjustments $ (1,636 ) $ (438 ) $ (2,074 ) Net changes related to available-for-sale securities Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ (29 ) $ 11 $ (18 ) Reclassification of (gains)/losses to other (income) and expense 5 (2 ) 3 Total net changes related to available-for-sale securities $ (24 ) $ 9 $ (15 ) Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ 958 $ (341 ) $ 618 Reclassification of (gains)/losses to: Cost of sales 15 (7 ) 9 SG&A expense (15 ) 6 (9 ) Other (income) and expense (98 ) 38 (60 ) Interest expense 1 0 0 Total unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges $ 861 $ (304 ) $ 557 Retirement-related benefit plans (1) Prior service costs/(credits) $ 1 $ 0 $ 1 Net (losses)/gains arising during the period (9,799 ) 3,433 (6,366 ) Curtailments and settlements 24 (7 ) 17 Amortization of prior service (credits)/costs (114 ) 41 (73 ) Amortization of net (gains)/losses 2,531 (852 ) 1,678 Total retirement-related benefit plans $ (7,357 ) $ 2,615 $ (4,742 ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ (8,156 ) $ 1,883 $ (6,274 ) (1) These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See note S, Retirement-Related Benefits, for additional information.) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (net of tax) ($ in millions) Net Change Net Unrealized Net Unrealized Foreign Retirement- Gains/(Losses) Accumulated Gains/(Losses) Currency Related on Available- Other on CashFlow Translation Benefit For-Sale Comprehensive Hedges Adjustments* Plans Securities Income/(Loss) December 31, 2013 $ (165 ) $ 332 $ (21,767 ) $ (1 ) $ (21,602 ) Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 618 (2,074 ) (6,348 ) (18 ) (7,822 ) Amount reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (60 ) 0 1,605 3 1,548 Total change for the period 557 (2,074 ) (4,742 ) (15 ) (6,274 ) December 31, 2014 392 (1,742 ) (26,509 ) (15 ) (27,875 ) Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 399 (1,721 ) (1,897 ) (33 ) (3,252 ) Amount reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (691 ) 0 2,158 53 1,520 Total change for the period (292 ) (1,721 ) 262 20 (1,731 ) December 31, 2015 100 (3,463 ) (26,248 ) 5 (29,607 ) Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 163 (140 ) (1,581 ) (23 ) (1,581 ) Amount reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income 56 0 1,714 21 1,791 Total change for the period 219 (140 ) 132 (2 ) 209 December 31, 2016 $ 319 $ (3,603 ) $ (26,116 ) $ 2 $ (29,398 ) * Foreign currency translation adjustments are presented gross except for any associated hedges which are presented net of tax. 126 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies NOTE M. CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS Contingencies As a company with a substantial employee population and with clients in more than 175 countries, IBM is involved, either as plaintiff or defendant, in a variety of ongoing claims, demands, suits, investigations, tax matters and proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of its business. The company is a leader in the information technology industry and, as such, has been and will continue to be subject to claims challenging its IP rights and associated products and offerings, including claims of copyright and patent infringement and violations of trade secrets and other IP rights. In addition, the company enforces its own IP against infringement, through license negotiations, lawsuits or otherwise. Also, as is typical for companies of IBMs scope and scale, the company is party to actions and proceedings in various jurisdictions involving a wide range of labor and employment issues (including matters related to contested employment decisions, country-specific labor and employment laws, and the companys pension, retirement and other benefit plans), as well as actions with respect to contracts, product liability, securities, foreign operations, competition law and environmental matters. These actions may be commenced by a number of different parties, including competitors, clients, current or former employees, government and regulatory agencies, stockholders and representatives of the locations in which the company does business. Some of the actions to which the company is party may involve particularly complex technical issues, and some actions may raise novel questions under the laws of the various jurisdictions in which these matters arise. The company records a provision with respect to a claim, suit, investigation or proceeding when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Any recorded liabilities, including any changes to such liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with the relevant accounting guidance, the company provides disclosures of matters for which the likelihood of material loss is at least reasonably possible. In addition, the company also discloses matters based on its consideration of other matters and qualitative factors, including the experience of other companies in the industry, and investor, customer and employee relations considerations. With respect to certain of the claims, suits, investigations and proceedings discussed herein, the company believes at this time that the likelihood of any material loss is remote, given, for example, the procedural status, court rulings, and/or the strength of the companys defenses in those matters. With respect to the remaining claims, suits, investigations and proceedings discussed in this note, except as specifically discussed herein, the company is unable to provide estimates of reasonably possible losses or range of losses, including losses in excess of amounts accrued, if any, for the following reasons. Claims, suits, investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain, and it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. It is the companys experience that damage amounts claimed in litigation against it are unreliable and unrelated to possible outcomes, and as such are not meaningful indicators of the companys potential liability. Further, the company is unable to provide such an estimate due to a number of other factors with respect to these claims, suits, investigations and proceedings, including considerations of the procedural status of the matter in question, the presence of complex or novel legal theories, and/or the ongoing discovery and development of information important to the matters. The company reviews claims, suits, investigations and proceedings at least quarterly, and decisions are made with respect to recording or adjusting provisions and disclosing reasonably possible losses or range of losses (individually or in the aggregate), to reflect the impact and status of settlement discussions, discovery, procedural and substantive rulings, reviews by counsel and other information pertinent to a particular matter. Whether any losses, damages or remedies finally determined in any claim, suit, investigation or proceeding could reasonably have a material effect on the companys business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows will depend on a number of variables, including: the timing and amount of such losses or damages; the structure and type of any such remedies; the significance of the impact any such losses, damages or remedies may have in the Consolidated Financial Statements; and the unique facts and circumstances of the particular matter that may give rise to additional factors. While the company will continue to defend itself vigorously, it is possible that the companys business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these matters. The following is a summary of the more significant legal matters involving the company. The company is a defendant in an action filed on March 6, 2003 in state court in Salt Lake City, Utah by the SCO Group (SCO v. IBM). The company removed the case to Federal Court in Utah. Plaintiff is an alleged successor in interest to some of AT&Ts UNIX IP rights, and alleges copyright infringement, unfair competition, interference with contract and breach of contract with regard to the companys distribution of AIX and Dynix and contribution of code to Linux and the company has asserted counterclaims. On September 14, 2007, plaintiff filed for bankruptcy protection, and all proceedings in this case were stayed. The court in another suit, the SCO Group, Inc. v. Novell, Inc., held a trial in March 2010. The jury found that Novell is the owner of UNIX and UnixWare copyrights; the judge subsequently ruled that SCO is obligated to recognize Novells waiver of SCOs claims against IBM and Sequent for breach of UNIX license agreements. On August 30, 2011, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the district courts ruling and denied SCOs appeal of this matter. In June 2013, the Federal Court in Utah granted SCOs motion to reopen the SCO v. IBM case. 127 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies In February 2016, the Federal Court ruled in favor of IBM on all of SCOs remaining claims, and in March 2016, SCO filed a notice of appeal to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. On May 13, 2010, IBM and the State of Indiana (acting on behalf of the Indiana Family and Social Services Administration) sued one another in a dispute over a 2006 contract regarding the modernization of social service program processing in Indiana. After six weeks of trial, on July 18, 2012, the Indiana Superior Court in Marion County rejected the States claims in their entirety and awarded IBM $52 million plus interest and costs. On February 13, 2014, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed portions of the trial judges findings, found IBM in material breach, and ordered the case remanded to the trial judge to determine the States damages, if any. The Indiana Court of Appeals also affirmed approximately $50 million of the trial courts award of damages to IBM. On March 22, 2016, the Indiana Supreme Court affirmed the outcome of the Indiana Court of Appeals and remanded the case to the Indiana Superior Court. On April 16, 2014, Iusacell SA de C.V. (Iusacell) sued IBM, claiming that IBM made fraudulent misrepresentations that induced Iusacell to enter into an agreement with IBM Mexico. Iusacell claims damages for lost profits. Iusacells complaint relates to a contractual dispute in Mexico, which is the subject of a pending arbitration proceeding in Mexico initiated by IBM Mexico against Iusacell for breach of the underlying agreement. On November 14, 2014, the District Court in the Southern District of New York granted IBMs motion to stay Iusacells action against the company pending the arbitration in Mexico between Iusacell and IBM Mexico. IBM United Kingdom Limited (IBM UK) initiated legal proceedings in May 2010 before the High Court in London against the IBM UK Pensions Trust (the UK Trust) and two representative beneficiaries of the UK Trust membership. IBM UK is seeking a declaration that it acted lawfully both in notifying the Trustee of the UK Trust that it was closing its UK defined benefit plans to future accruals for most participants and in implementing the companys new retirement policy. In April 2014, the High Court acknowledged that the changes made to its UK defined benefit plans were within IBMs discretion, but ruled that IBM breached its implied duty of good faith both in implementing these changes and in the manner in which it consulted with employees. Proceedings to determine remedies were held in July 2014, and in February 2015 the High Court held that for IBM to make changes to accruals under the plan would require a new consultation of the participants, but other changes (including to early retirement policy) would not require such consultation. IBM UK has appealed both the breach and remedies judgments. If the appeal is unsuccessful, the Courts rulings would require IBM to reverse the changes made to the UK defined benefit plans retroactive to their effective dates. This could result in an estimated non-operating one-time pre-tax charge of approximately $290 million, plus ongoing defined benefit related accruals. In addition, IBM UK is a defendant in approximately 290 individual actions brought since early 2010 by participants of the defined benefits plans who left IBM UK. These actions, which allege constructive dismissal and age discrimination, are pending before the Employment Tribunal in Southampton UK. In March 2011, the company announced that it had agreed to settle a civil enforcement action with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) relating to alleged violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA). On July 25, 2013, the court approved that 2011 settlement and required that for a two-year period IBM make reports to the SEC and the court on certain matters, including those relating to compliance with the FCPA. The two-year period expired in July 2015. In early 2012, IBM notified the SEC of an investigation by the Polish Central Anti-Corruption Bureau involving allegations of illegal activity by a former IBM Poland employee in connection with sales to the Polish government. IBM is cooperating with the SEC and Polish authorities in this matter. In April 2013, IBM learned that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) is also investigating allegations related to the Poland matter, as well as allegations relating to transactions in Argentina, Bangladesh and Ukraine. The DOJ is also seeking information regarding the companys global FCPA compliance program and its public sector business. The company is cooperating with the DOJ in this matter. In March 2015, putative class action litigation was commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York related to the companys October 2014 announcement that it was divesting its global commercial semiconductor technology business. The company and three of its officers were named as defendants. Plaintiffs allege that defendants violated Sections 20(a) and 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. In May 2015, a related putative class action was also commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York based on the same underlying facts, alleging violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). The company, managements Retirement Plans Committee, and three current or former IBM executives were named as defendants. On September 7, 2016, the Court granted the companys motions to dismiss the plaintiffs claims in both actions. On October 21, 2016, the ERISA plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, dropping the company as a defendant. The matter remains pending in the United States District Court. In August 2015, IBM learned that the SEC is conducting an investigation relating to revenue recognition with respect to the accounting treatment of certain transactions in the U.S., UK and Ireland. The company is cooperating with the SEC in this matter. The company is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as Superfund, or laws similar to CERCLA. Such statutes require potentially responsible parties to participate in remediation activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites. The company is also conducting 128 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies environmental investigations, assessments or remediations at or in the vicinity of several current or former operating sites globally pursuant to permits, administrative orders or agreements with country, state or local environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning certain current or former operating sites. The company is also subject to ongoing tax examinations and governmental assessments in various jurisdictions. Along with many other U.S. companies doing business in Brazil, the company is involved in various challenges with Brazilian tax authorities regarding non-income tax assessments and non-income tax litigation matters. In 2016, the company also received new non-income tax assessments from the municipality of Rio de Janeiro. The total potential amount related to all these matters for all applicable years is approximately $980 million. The company believes it will prevail on these matters and that this amount is not a meaningful indicator of liability. Commitments The companys extended lines of credit to third-party entities include unused amounts of $6,542 million and $5,477 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. A portion of these amounts was available to the companys business partners to support their working capital needs. In addition, the company has committed to provide future financing to its clients in connection with client purchase agreements for approximately $2,463 million and $2,097 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The company has applied the guidance requiring a guarantor to disclose certain types of guarantees, even if the likelihood of requiring the guarantors performance is remote. The following is a description of arrangements in which the company is the guarantor. The company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise in the context of contracts entered into by the company, under which the company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations and covenants related to such matters as title to assets sold, certain IP rights, specified environmental matters, third-party performance of nonfinancial contractual obligations and certain income taxes. In each of these circumstances, payment by the company is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, the procedures of which typically allow the company to challenge the other partys claims. While typically indemnification provisions do not include a contractual maximum on the companys payment, the companys obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time and/or nature of claim, and in some instances, the company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the company. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the companys obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the companys business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the company guarantees certain loans and financial commitments. The maximum potential future payment under these financial guarantees was $34 million and $34 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The fair value of the guarantees recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was immaterial. NOTE N. TAXES ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Income from continuing operations before income taxes U.S. operations $ 3,650 $ 5,915 $ 7,509 Non-U.S. operations 8,680 10,030 12,477 Total income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 12,330 $ 15,945 $ 19,986 The income from continuing operations provision for income taxes by geographic operations is as follows: ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 U.S. operations $ 38 $ 849 $ 2,093 Non-U.S. operations 411 1,732 2,141 Total continuing operations provision for income taxes $ 449 $ 2,581 $ 4,234 129 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The components of the income from continuing operations provision for income taxes by taxing jurisdiction are as follows: ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 U.S. federal Current $ 186 $ (321 ) $ 1,134 Deferred (746 ) 553 105 $ (560 ) $ 232 $ 1,239 U.S. state and local Current $ 244 $ 128 $ 541 Deferred (44 ) 116 (105 ) $ 200 $ 244 $ 436 Non-U.S. Current $ 988 $ 2,101 $ 2,825 Deferred (179 ) 4 (266 ) $ 809 $ 2,105 $ 2,559 Total continuing operations provision for income taxes $ 449 $ 2,581 $ 4,234 Discontinued operations provision for income taxes (2 ) (117 ) (1,617 ) Provision for social security, real estate, personal property and other taxes 3,417 3,497 4,068 Total taxes included in net income $ 3,864 $ 5,961 $ 6,685 A reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal tax rate to the companys effective tax rate from continuing operations is as follows: For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Statutory rate 35 % 35 % 35 % Foreign tax differential (21 ) (17 ) (14 ) Japan resolution (10 ) 0 0 State and local 1 1 1 Domestic incentives (1 ) (2 ) (2 ) Other 0 (1 ) 1 Effective rate 4 % 16 % 21 % Percentages rounded for disclosure purposes. The significant components reflected within the tax rate reconciliation labeled Foreign tax differential include the effects of foreign subsidiaries earnings taxed at rates other than the U.S. statutory rate, foreign export incentives, the U.S. tax impacts of non-U.S. earnings repatriation and any net impacts of intercompany transactions. These items also reflect audit settlements, excluding Japan, or changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits associated with each of these items. In 2016, the company favorably settled the remaining open items on the companys U.S. income tax returns for 2011 and 2012 resulting in no further adjustments. In April 2010, the company appealed the determination of the Japanese Tax Authorities with respect to certain foreign tax losses. The tax benefit of these losses, approximately $1.0 billion adjusted for currency, had been included in unrecognized tax benefits as of December 2015. In April 2011, the company received notification that the appeal was denied, and in June 2011, the company filed a lawsuit challenging this decision. In May 2014, the Tokyo District Court ruled in favor of the company. The Japanese government appealed the ruling to the Tokyo High Court. On March 25, 2015, the Tokyo High Court ruled in favor of IBM and, on April 7, 2015, the Japanese government appealed the ruling to the Japan Supreme Court. On February 18, 2016, the Supreme Court denied the government appeal thereby upholding the Tokyo High Courts decision in favor of the company as the final judgment in this matter. This led to a refund of the taxes previously paid of $1.0 billion, which the company received in the first-quarter 2016 and included in the effective tax rate. Interest of $0.2 billion was also received. The 2016 continuing operations effective tax rate decreased 12.5 points from 2015 driven by: the favorable resolution of the Japan tax matter described above (9.5 points), a benefit due to the year-to-year decrease in tax charges related to intercompany payments made by foreign subsidiaries and the intercompany licensing of certain IP (5.7 points), and a benefit from the geographic mix of pre-tax earnings year over year. These benefits were partially offset by a reduced benefit year to year related to audit settlements (2.3 points) and a decreased benefit year to year in the utilization of foreign tax credits (0.6 points). The effect of tax law changes on deferred tax assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on the companys effective tax rate. The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position were: Deferred Tax Assets ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015* Retirement benefits $ 4,671 $ 4,621 Share-based and other compensation 1,132 963 Domestic tax loss/credit carryforwards 1,676 1,055 Deferred income 741 762 Foreign tax loss/credit carryforwards 816 767 Bad debt, inventory and warranty reserves 473 528 Depreciation 270 329 Accruals 624 904 Other 1,503 1,000 Gross deferred tax assets 11,906 10,929 Less: valuation allowance 916 740 Net deferred tax assets $ 10,990 $ 10,189 * Reclassified to conform to 2016 presentation 130 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Deferred Tax Liabilities ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 Depreciation $ 856 $ 919 Retirement benefits 406 252 Goodwill and intangible assets 1,800 1,407 Leases 651 916 Software development costs 672 554 Deferred transition costs 351 395 Other 1,455 1,177 Gross deferred tax liabilities $ 6,191 $ 5,620 For income tax return purposes, the company has foreign and domestic loss carryforwards, the tax effect of which is $855 million, as well as domestic and foreign credit carryforwards of $1,982 million. Substantially all of these carryforwards are available for at least two years and the majority are available for 10 years or more. The valuation allowances as of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $916 million, $740 million and $646 million, respectively. The amounts principally apply to certain foreign, state and local loss carryforwards and credits. In the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that these assets will not be realized. However, to the extent that tax benefits related to these carryforwards are realized in the future, the reduction in the valuation allowance will reduce income tax expense. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2016 decreased by $834 million in 2016 to $3,740 million. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: ($ in millions) 2016 2015 2014 Balance at January 1 $ 4,574 $ 5,104 $ 4,458 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year 560 464 697 Additions for tax positions of prior years 334 569 586 Reductions for tax positions of prior years (including impacts due to a lapse in statute) (1,443 ) (1,348 ) (579 ) Settlements (285 ) (215 ) (58 ) Balance at December 31 $ 3,740 $ 4,574 $ 5,104 The additions to unrecognized tax benefits related to the current and prior years are primarily attributable to non-U.S. issues, certain tax incentives and credits and state issues. The settlements and reductions to unrecognized tax benefits for tax positions of prior years are primarily attributable to the favorable resolution of the Japan tax matter, currency, non-U.S. audits and impacts due to lapses in statutes of limitation. The liability at December 31, 2016 of $3,740 million can be reduced by $775 million of offsetting tax benefits associated with the correlative effects of potential transfer pricing adjustments, U.S. tax credits, state income taxes and timing adjustments. The net amount of $2,965 million, if recognized, would favorably affect the companys effective tax rate. The net amounts at December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $3,724 million and $4,229 million, respectively. Interest and penalties related to income tax liabilities are included in income tax expense. During the year ended December 31, 2016, the company recognized $62 million in interest expense and penalties; in 2015, the company recognized $141 million in interest expense and penalties; and, in 2014, the company recognized $216 million in interest expense and penalties. The company has $625 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2016, and had $613 million accrued at December 31, 2015. Within the next 12 months, the company believes it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits associated with certain positions may be reduced. The potential decrease in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits is associated with the anticipated resolution of the companys U.S. income tax audit for 2013 and 2014, as well as various non-U.S. audits. The company estimates that the unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2016 could be reduced by $966 million. The company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and various state and foreign jurisdictions. With respect to major U.S. state and foreign taxing jurisdictions, the company is generally no longer subject to tax examinations for years prior to 2012. With limited exception, the company is no longer subject to income tax examination of its U.S. federal tax return for years prior to 2013. The open years contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations related to the amount and/or timing of income, deductions and tax credits. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the company believes that adequate amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any significant adjustments that are expected to result for these years. In the fourth quarter of 2013, the company received a draft tax assessment notice for approximately $866 million (approximately $789 million at 2016 year-end currency rates) from the Indian Tax Authorities for 2009. In July 2016, the Karnataka High Court in Bangalore set aside this assessment by way of court order and the company reached a mutual agreement with the Income Tax Department for a new assessment, which will take place over an 18 month period. At December 31, 2016, the company has recorded $568 million as prepaid income taxes in India. A significant portion of this balance represents cash tax deposits paid over time to protect the companys right to appeal various income tax assessments made by the Indian Tax Authorities. The company believes it will prevail on these matters. In the first quarter of 2016, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service commenced its audit of the companys U.S. tax returns for 2013 and 2014. The company anticipates that this audit will be completed by the end of 2017. 131 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The company has not provided deferred taxes on $71.4 billion of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries at December 31, 2016, as it is the companys policy to indefinitely reinvest these earnings in non-U.S. operations. However, the company periodically repatriates a portion of these earnings to the extent that it does not incur an additional U.S. tax liability. Quantification of the deferred tax liability, if any, associated with indefinitely reinvested earnings is not practicable. NOTE O. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING RD&E expense was $5,751 million in 2016, $5,247 million in 2015 and $5,437 million in 2014. In addition, RD&E expense included in discontinued operations was $1 million in 2016, $197 million in 2015 and $368 million in 2014. The company incurred total expense of $5,421 million, $5,178 million and $5,595 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, for scientific research and the application of scientific advances to the development of new and improved products and their uses, as well as services and their application. Within these amounts, software-related expense was $3,470 million, $3,064 million and $3,064 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Expense for product-related engineering was $332 million, $267 million and $211 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. NOTE P. EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK The following table presents the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share of common stock. ($ in millions except per share amounts) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Weighted-average number of shares on which earnings per share calculations are based Basic 955,422,530 978,744,523 1,004,272,584 Addincremental shares under stock-based compensation plans 2,416,940 3,037,001 4,332,155 Addincremental shares associated with contingently issuable shares 874,626 918,744 1,395,741 Assuming dilution 958,714,097 982,700,267 1,010,000,480 Income from continuing operations $ 11,881 $ 13,364 $ 15,751 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (9 ) (174 ) (3,729 ) Net income on which basic earnings per share is calculated $ 11,872 $ 13,190 $ 12,022 Income from continuing operations $ 11,881 $ 13,364 $ 15,751 Net income applicable to contingently issuable shares 0 (1 ) (3 ) Income from continuing operations on which diluted earnings per share is calculated $ 11,881 $ 13,363 $ 15,749 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, on which basic and diluted earnings per share is calculated (9 ) (174 ) (3,729 ) Net income on which diluted earnings per share is calculated $ 11,872 $ 13,189 $ 12,020 Earnings/(loss) per share of common stock Assuming dilution Continuing operations $ 12.39 $ 13.60 $ 15.59 Discontinued operations (0.01 ) (0.18 ) (3.69 ) Total $ 12.38 $ 13.42 $ 11.90 Basic Continuing operations $ 12.44 $ 13.66 $ 15.68 Discontinued operations (0.01 ) (0.18 ) (3.71 ) Total $ 12.43 $ 13.48 $ 11.97 Weighted-average stock options to purchase 405,552 common shares in 2016, 41,380 common shares in 2015 and 17,420 common shares in 2014 were outstanding, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise price of the options was greater than the average market price of the common shares for the full year, and therefore, the effect would have been antidilutive. 132 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies NOTE Q. RENTAL EXPENSE AND LEASE COMMITMENTS Rental expense, including amounts charged to inventories and fixed assets, and excluding amounts previously reserved, was $1,508 million in 2016, $1,474 million in 2015 and $1,592 million in 2014. Within these amounts, rental expense reflected in discontinued operations was $29 million and $95 million, in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Rental expense in agreements with rent holidays and scheduled rent increases is recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent rentals are included in the determination of rental expense as accruable. The table below depicts gross minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases, amounts related to vacant space associated with workforce transformation, sublease income commitments and capital lease commitments. These amounts reflect activities primarily related to office space, as well as data centers. ($ in millions) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Beyond 2021 Operating lease commitments Gross minimum rental commitments (including vacant space below) $ 1,414 $ 1,328 $ 1,218 $ 1,016 $ 796 $ 1,111 Vacant space $ 42 $ 29 $ 20 $ 15 $ 11 $ 9 Sublease income commitments $ 12 $ 8 $ 6 $ 3 $ $ Capital lease commitments $ 1 $ 2 $ 2 $ 2 $ $ NOTE R. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION The following table presents total stock-based compensation cost included in income from continuing operations. ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Cost $ 88 $ 100 $ 121 Selling, general and administrative 401 322 350 Research, development and engineering 55 51 54 Other (income) and expense* (6 ) (13 ) Pre-tax stock-based compensation cost 544 468 512 Income tax benefits (179 ) (156 ) (174 ) Net stock-based compensation cost $ 364 $ 312 $ 338 * Reflects the one-time effects related to divestitures The amount of stock-based compensation cost included in discontinued operations, net of tax, was immaterial in all periods. Total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $934 million and $871 million, respectively. The amount at December 31, 2016 is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.6 years. There was no significant capitalized stock-based compensation cost at December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014. Incentive Awards Stock-based incentive awards are provided to employees under the terms of the companys long-term performance plans (the Plans). The Plans are administered by the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the Committee). Awards available under the Plans principally include restricted stock units, performance share units, stock options or any combination thereof. The amount of shares originally authorized to be issued under the companys existing Plans was 273 million at December 31, 2016. In addition, certain incentive awards granted under previous plans, if and when those awards were canceled, could be reissued under the companys existing Plans. As such, 66.2 million additional shares were considered authorized to be issued under the companys existing Plans as of December 31, 2016. There were 106.7 million unused shares available to be granted under the Plans as of December 31, 2016. Under the companys long-standing practices and policies, all awards are approved prior to or on the date of grant. The awards approval process specifies the individual receiving the grant, the number of options or the value of the award, the exercise price or formula for determining the exercise price and the date of grant. All awards for senior management are approved by the Committee. All awards for employees other than senior management are approved by senior management pursuant to a series of delegations that were approved by the Committee, and the grants made pursuant to these delegations are reviewed periodically with the Committee. Awards that are given as part of annual total compensation for senior management and other employees are made on specific cycle dates scheduled in advance. With respect to awards given in connection with promotions or new hires, the companys policy requires approval of such awards prior to the grant date, which is typically the date of the promotion or the date of hire. Stock Awards Stock awards are made in the form of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), including Retention Restricted Stock Units (RRSUs), or Performance Share Units (PSUs). 133 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The tables below summarize RSU and PSU activity under the Plans during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. RSUs 2016 2015 2014 Weighted- Weighted- Weighted- Average Number Average Number Average Number Grant Price of Units Grant Price of Units Grant Price of Units Balance at January 1 $ 159 7,527, 341 $ 171 7,734,277 $ 166 8,635,317 RSUs granted 140 3,985,870 143 4,230,186 172 2,525,947 RSUs released 174 (1,860,660 ) 164 (3,567,495 ) 157 (2,401,761 ) RSUs canceled/forfeited 158 (753,459 ) 167 (869,627 ) 167 (1,025,226 ) Balance at December 31 $ 147 8,899,092 $ 159 7,527,341 $ 171 7,734,277 PSUs 2016 2015 2014 Weighted- Weighted- Weighted- Average Number Average Number Average Number Grant Price of Units Grant Price of Units Grant Price of Units Balance at January 1 $ 173 2,928,932 $ 185 3,140,707 $ 178 2,824,294 PSUs granted at target 140 990,336 153 1,137,242 180 1,430,098 Performance adjustments* 194 (387,457 ) 185 (168,055 ) 157 29,960 PSUs released 194 (419,759 ) 185 (840,552 ) 157 (1,027,181 ) PSUs canceled/forfeited 174 (237,294 ) 184 (340,410 ) 187 (116,464 ) Balance at December 31** $ 155 2,874,758 $ 173 2,928,932 $ 185 3,140,707 * Represents the change in shares issued to employees after vesting of PSUs because final performance metrics were above or below specified targets ** Represents the number of shares expected to be issued based on achievement of grant date performance targets. The actual number of shares issued will depend on final performance against specified targets over the vesting period. RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests, typically over a one- to five-year period. For RSUs, dividend equivalents are not paid. The fair value of such RSUs is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the companys stock price adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents. The remaining weighted-average contractual term of RSUs at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 is the same as the period over which the remaining cost of the awards will be recognized, which is approximately three years. The fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $557 million, $606 million and $434 million, respectively. The total fair value of RSUs vested and released during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $323 million, $583 million and $378 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, there was $814 million, $800 million and $754 million, respectively, of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs. The company received no cash from employees as a result of employee vesting and release of RSUs for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. PSUs are stock awards where the number of shares ultimately received by the employee depends on the companys performance against specified targets and typically vest over a three-year period. For PSUs, dividend equivalents are not paid. The fair value of each PSU is determined on the grant date, based on the companys stock price, adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents, and assumes that performance targets will be achieved. Over the performance period, the number of shares of stock that will be issued is adjusted upward or downward based upon the probability of achievement of performance targets. The ultimate number of shares issued and the related compensation cost recognized as expense will be based on a comparison of the final performance metrics to the specified targets. The fair value of PSUs granted at target during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $138 million, $174 million and $257 million, respectively. Total fair value of PSUs vested and released during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $81 million, $156 million and $161 million, respectively. In connection with vesting and release of RSUs and PSUs, the tax benefits realized by the company for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $118 million, $228 million and $222 million, respectively. 134 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Stock Options During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the company did not grant stock options. During the year ended December 31, 2016, the company made one grant of 1.5 million premium-priced stock options. The option award cliff vests in three years and has a contractual term of 10 years. The total compensation cost to be recognized over the three-year vesting period is expected to be $12 million. The company estimates the fair value of stock options at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Key inputs and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options include the grant price of the award, the expected option term, volatility of the companys stock, the risk-free rate and the companys dividend yield. Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by the company. The following table summarizes option activity under the Plans during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. 2016 2015 2014 Weighted- Weighted- Weighted- Average Number of Average Number of Average Number of Exercise Shares Exercise Shares Exercise Shares Price Under Option Price Under Option Price Under Option Balance at January 1 $ 94 479,774 $ 97 1,750,949 $ 97 5,622,951 Options granted 140 1,500,000 Options exercised 91 (361,088 ) 98 (1,214,109 ) 97 (3,740,252 ) Options canceled/expired 86 (4,763 ) 100 (57,066 ) 95 (131,750 ) Balance at December 31 $ 137 1,613,923 $ 94 479,774 $ 97 1,750,949 Exercisable at December 31 $ 103 113,923 $ 94 479,774 $ 97 1,750,949 The shares under option at December 31, 2016 were in the following exercise price ranges: Options Outstanding Weighted- Weighted-Average Average Number of Aggregate Remaining Exercise Shares Intrinsic Contractual Life Exercise Price Range Price Under Option Value (in Years) $128 and under $ 103 113,923 $ 7,198,794 0.3 $129 $154 140 1,500,000 39,236,250 9.1 $ 137 1,613,923 $ 46,435,044 8.5 Options Exercisable Weighted- Weighted-Average Average Number of Aggregate Remaining Exercise Shares Intrinsic Contractual Life Exercise Price Range Price Under Option Value (in Years) $128 and under $ 103 113,923 $ 7,198,794 0.3 Exercises of Employee Stock Options The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $20 million, $74 million and $323 million, respectively. The total cash received from employees as a result of employee stock option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $33 million, $119 million and $364 million, respectively. In connection with these exercises, the tax benefits realized by the company for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $7 million, $26 million and $107 million, respectively. The company settles employee stock option exercises primarily with newly issued common shares and, occasionally, with treasury shares. Total treasury shares held at December 31, 2016 and 2015 were approximately 1,279 million and 1,255 million shares, respectively. 135 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Acquisitions In connection with various acquisition transactions, there was an additional 0.6 million options outstanding at December 31, 2016, as a result of the companys conversion of stock-based awards previously granted by the acquired entities. The weighted-average exercise price of these awards was $33 per share. IBM Employees Stock Purchase Plan The company maintains a non-compensatory Employees Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The ESPP enables eligible participants to purchase full or fractional shares of IBM common stock at a 5 percent discount off the average market price on the day of purchase through payroll deductions of up to 10 percent of eligible compensation. Eligible compensation includes any compensation received by the employee during the year. The ESPP provides for offering periods during which shares may be purchased and continues as long as shares remain available under the ESPP, unless terminated earlier at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Individual ESPP participants are restricted from purchasing more than $25,000 of common stock in one calendar year or 1,000 shares in an offering period. Employees purchased 1.2 million, 1.3 million and 1.3 million shares under the ESPP during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Cash dividends declared and paid by the company on its common stock also include cash dividends on the company stock purchased through the ESPP. Dividends are paid on full and fractional shares and can be reinvested. The company stock purchased through the ESPP is considered outstanding and is included in the weighted-average outstanding shares for purposes of computing basic and diluted earnings per share. In July 2014, the 2014 ESPP Reserve became effective and 25 million additional shares of authorized common stock were reserved and approved for issuance. The 2014 ESPP provides for semi-annual offerings commencing July 1, 2014, and continuing as long as shares remain available under the ESPP, unless terminated earlier at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Approximately 21.8 million, 23.1 million and 24.4 million shares were available for purchase under the ESPP at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. NOTE S. RETIREMENT-RELATED BENEFITS Description of Plans IBM sponsors defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans that cover eligible regular employees, a supplemental retention plan that covers certain U.S. executives and nonpension postretirement benefit plans primarily consisting of retiree medical and dental benefits for eligible retirees and dependents. U.S. Plans Defined Benefit Pension Plans IBM Personal Pension Plan IBM provides U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees hired prior to January 1, 2005 with noncontributory defined benefit pension benefits via the IBM Personal Pension Plan. Prior to 2008, the IBM Personal Pension Plan consisted of a tax qualified (qualified) plan and a non-tax qualified (nonqualified) plan. Effective January 1, 2008, the nonqualified plan was renamed the Excess Personal Pension Plan (Excess PPP) and the qualified plan is now referred to as the Qualified PPP. The combined plan is now referred to as the PPP. The Qualified PPP is funded by company contributions to an irrevocable trust fund, which is held for the sole benefit of participants and beneficiaries. The Excess PPP, which is unfunded, provides benefits in excess of IRS limitations for qualified plans. Benefits provided to the PPP participants are calculated using benefit formulas that vary based on the participant. The first method uses a five-year, final pay formula that determines benefits based on salary, years of service, mortality and other participant-specific factors. The second method is a cash balance formula that calculates benefits using a percentage of employees annual salary, as well as an interest crediting rate. Benefit accruals under the IBM Personal Pension Plan ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants. U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention Plan The company also sponsors a nonqualified U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention Plan (Retention Plan). The Retention Plan, which is unfunded, provides benefits to eligible U.S. executives based on average earnings, years of service and age at termination of employment. Benefit accruals under the Retention Plan ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants. Defined Contribution Plans IBM 401(k) Plus Plan U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees are eligible to participate in the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, which is a qualified defined contribution plan under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, eligible employees receive a dollar-for-dollar match of their contributions generally up to 6 percent of eligible compensation for those hired prior to January 1, 2005, and, generally up to 5 percent of eligible compensation for those hired on or after January 1, 2005. In addition, eligible employees generally receive automatic contributions from the company equal to 1, 2 or 4 percent of eligible compensation based on their eligibility to participate in the PPP as of December 31, 2007. Employees generally receive automatic contributions and matching contributions after the completion of one year of service. 136 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies All contributions, including the company match, are made in cash and invested in accordance with participants investment elections. There are no minimum amounts that must be invested in company stock, and there are no restrictions on transferring amounts out of company stock to another investment choice, other than excessive trading rules applicable to such investments. Matching and automatic contributions are made once annually at the end of the year. In order to receive such contributions each year, a participant must be employed on December 15 of the plan year. However, matching and automatic contributions can be made for certain types of separations that occur prior to December 15, including, for example, if the participant has completed certain service and/or age requirements at separation. The companys matching contributions vest immediately and participants are always fully vested in their own contributions. IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan The IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan (Excess 401(k)) is an unfunded, nonqualified defined contribution plan. Employees whose eligible compensation is expected to exceed the IRS compensation limit for qualified plans are eligible to participate in the Excess 401(k). The purpose of the Excess 401(k) is to provide benefits that would be provided under the qualified IBM 401(k) Plus Plan if the compensation limits did not apply. Amounts deferred into the Excess 401(k) are record-keeping (notional) accounts and are not held in trust for the participants. Participants in the Excess 401(k) may invest their notional accounts in investments which mirror the primary investment options available under the 401(k) Plus Plan. Participants in the Excess 401(k) are also eligible to receive company match and automatic contributions (at the same rate as under the 401(k) Plus Plan) on eligible compensation deferred into the Excess 401(k) and on compensation earned in excess of the Internal Revenue Code pay limit once they have completed one year of service. Amounts deferred into the Excess 401(k), including company contributions are recorded as liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Matching and automatic contributions are made once annually at the end of the year. In order to receive such contributions each year, a participant must be employed on December 15 of the plan year. However, matching and automatic contributions can be made for certain types of separations that occur prior to December 15, including, for example, if the participant has completed certain service and/or age requirements at separation. Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan U.S. Nonpension Postretirement Plan The company sponsors a defined benefit nonpension postretirement benefit plan that provides medical and dental benefits to eligible U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees. Effective July 1, 1999, the company established a Future Health Account (FHA) for employees who were more than five years from retirement eligibility. Employees who were within five years of retirement eligibility are covered under the companys prior retiree health benefits arrangements. Under either the FHA or the prior retiree health benefit arrangements, there is a maximum cost to the company for retiree health benefits. Effective January 1, 2014, the company amended the plan to establish a Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) for each Medicare-eligible plan retiree, surviving spouse and long-term disability plan participant who is eligible for company-subsidized coverage and who enrolls in an individual plan under the Medicare Exchange. The company also amended its life insurance plan. Employees retiring on or after January 1, 2015 are not eligible for life insurance. Since January 1, 2004, new hires, as of that date or later, are not eligible for company-subsidized nonpension postretirement benefits. Non-U.S. Plans Certain subsidiaries and branches outside the United States sponsor defined benefit and/or defined contribution plans that cover eligible regular employees. The company deposits funds under various fiduciary-type arrangements, purchases annuities under group contracts or provides reserves for these plans. Benefits under the defined benefit plans are typically based either on years of service and the employees compensation (generally during a fixed number of years immediately before retirement) or on annual credits. The range of assumptions that are used for the non-U.S. defined benefit plans reflect the different economic environments within the various countries. In addition, certain of the companys non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor nonpension postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and dental benefits to eligible non-U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance for certain eligible non-U.S. retirees. However, most non-U.S. retirees are covered by local government sponsored and administered programs. 137 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Plan Financial Information Summary of Financial Information The following table presents a summary of the total retirement-related benefits net periodic (income)/cost recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. ($ in millions) U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans Total For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Defined benefit pension plans $ (334 ) $ (284 ) $ (833 ) $ 1,039 $ 1,421 $ 1,267 $ 705 $ 1,137 $ 434 Retention Plan 17 23 15 17 23 15 Total defined benefit pension plans (income)/cost $ (317 ) $ (261 ) $ (818 ) $ 1,039 $ 1,421 $ 1,267 $ 722 $ 1,160 $ 449 IBM 401(k) Plus Plan and non-U.S. plans $ 626 $ 676 $ 713 $ 420 $ 442 $ 526 $ 1,046 $ 1,117 $ 1,239 Excess 401(k) 24 21 14 24 21 14 Total defined contribution plans cost $ 650 $ 697 $ 727 $ 420 $ 442 $ 526 $ 1,070 $ 1,138 $ 1,253 Nonpension postretirement benefit plans cost $ 195 $ 218 $ 206 $ 16 $ 55 $ 66 $ 211 $ 273 $ 272 Total retirement-related benefits net periodic cost $ 527 $ 654 $ 115 $ 1,475 $ 1,918 $ 1,859 $ 2,003 $ 2,572 $ 1,974 The following table presents a summary of the total PBO for defined benefit pension plans, APBO for nonpension postretirement benefit plans, fair value of plan assets and the associated funded status recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. ($ in millions) Benefit Obligations Fair Value of Plan Assets Funded Status* At December 31: 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 U.S. Plans Overfunded plans Qualified PPP $ 50,403 $ 51,287 $ 51,405 $ 51,716 $ 1,002 $ 429 Underfunded plans Excess PPP $ 1,509 $ 1,522 $ $ $ (1,509 ) $ (1,522 ) Retention Plan 307 312 (307 ) (312 ) Nonpension postretirement benefit plan 4,470 4,652 26 71 (4,444 ) (4,582 ) Total underfunded U.S. plans $ 6,286 $ 6,486 $ 26 $ 71 $ (6,260 ) $ (6,415 ) Non-U.S. Plans Overfunded plans Qualified defined benefit pension plans $ 17,614 $ 16,766 $ 19,647 $ 18,070 $ 2,032 $ 1,304 Nonpension postretirement benefit plans 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total overfunded non-U.S. plans $ 17,614 $ 16,766 $ 19,647 $ 18,070 $ 2,032 $ 1,304 Underfunded plans Qualified defined benefit pension plans $ 21,447 $ 22,039 $ 16,374 $ 17,677 $ (5,074 ) $ (4,362 ) Nonqualified defined benefit pension plans 5,919 5,911 (5,919 ) (5,911 ) Nonpension postretirement benefit plans 692 618 71 59 (622 ) (558 ) Total underfunded non-U.S. plans $ 28,059 $ 28,568 $ 16,445 $ 17,737 $ (11,614 ) $ (10,832 ) Total overfunded plans $ 68,017 $ 68,053 $ 71,051 $ 69,786 $ 3,034 $ 1,734 Total underfunded plans $ 34,344 $ 35,054 $ 16,470 $ 17,807 $ (17,874 ) $ (17,247 ) * Funded status is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as follows: Asset amounts as prepaid pension assets; (Liability) amounts as compensation and benefits (current liability) and retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations (noncurrent liability). 138 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies At December 31, 2016, the companys qualified defined benefit pension plans worldwide were 98 percent funded compared to the benefit obligations, with the U.S. Qualified PPP 102 percent funded. Overall, including nonqualified plans, the companys defined benefit pension plans worldwide were 90 percent funded. Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan Financial Information The following tables to page 142 represent financial information for the companys retirement-related benefit plans, excluding defined contribution plans. The defined benefit pension plans under U.S. Plans consists of the Qualified PPP, the Excess PPP and the Retention Plan. The defined benefit pension plans and the nonpension postretirement benefit plans under non-U.S. Plans consists of all plans sponsored by the companys subsidiaries. The nonpension postretirement benefit plan under U.S. Plan consists of only the U.S. Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan. The tables below present the components of net periodic (income)/cost of the retirement-related benefit plans recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, excluding defined contribution plans. ($ in millions) Defined Benefit Pension Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Service cost $ $ $ $ 420 $ 454 $ 449 Interest cost 2,048 2,028 2,211 1,035 1,075 1,533 Expected return on plan assets (3,689 ) (3,953 ) (4,096 ) (1,867 ) (1,919 ) (2,247 ) Amortization of transition assets 0 0 0 Amortization of prior service costs/ (credits) 10 10 10 (106 ) (98 ) (111 ) Recognized actuarial losses 1,314 1,654 1,056 1,408 1,581 1,400 Curtailments and settlements 22 35 26 Multi-employer plans/other costs* 126 293 217 Total net periodic (income)/cost $ (317 ) $ (261 ) $ (818 ) $ 1,039 $ 1,421 $ 1,267 ($ in millions) Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Service cost $ 17 $ 24 $ 26 $ 5 $ 7 $ 7 Interest cost 165 163 187 51 50 63 Expected return on plan assets 0 0 0 (6 ) (7 ) (9 ) Amortization of transition assets 0 0 0 Amortization of prior service costs/ (credits) (7 ) (7 ) (7 ) (5 ) (5 ) (5 ) Recognized actuarial losses 20 39 0 9 10 11 Curtailments and settlements (38 ) 0 0 Total net periodic cost $ 195 $ 218 $ 206 $ 16 $ 55 $ 66 * The non-U.S. plans amount includes $56 million, $233 million and $148 million related to the IBM Spain pension litigation for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. See page 142 for additional information. 139 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets of the companys retirement-related benefit plans, excluding defined contribution plans. ($ in millions) Defined Benefit Pension Plans Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Change in benefit obligation Benefit obligation at January 1 $ 53,120 $ 56,643 $ 44,717 $ 49,834 $ 4,652 $ 5,053 $ 618 $ 817 Service cost 420 454 17 24 5 7 Interest cost 2,048 2,028 1,035 1,075 165 163 51 50 Plan participants contributions 30 34 50 52 Acquisitions/divestitures, net (63 ) 39 0 (8 ) 0 0 Actuarial losses/(gains) 602 (1,920 ) 3,217 (861 ) 16 (204 ) 16 (52 ) Benefits paid from trust (3,430 ) (3,514 ) (1,792 ) (1,784 ) (400 ) (406 ) (5 ) (5 ) Direct benefit payments (123 ) (117 ) (381 ) (402 ) (30 ) (23 ) (27 ) (26 ) Foreign exchange impact (2,222 ) (3,907 ) 35 (174 ) Medicare/Government subsidies 1 Amendments/curtailments/ settlements/other 20 235 0 0 0 Benefit obligation at December 31 $ 52,218 $ 53,120 $ 44,981 $ 44,717 $ 4,470 $ 4,652 $ 692 $ 618 Change in plan assets Fair value of plan assets at January 1 $ 51,716 $ 55,772 $ 35,748 $ 39,543 $ 71 $ 16 $ 59 $ 84 Actual return on plan assets 3,118 (542 ) 3,828 417 0 0 8 7 Employer contributions 464 474 305 409 0 0 Acquisitions/divestitures, net (73 ) 53 0 0 0 0 Plan participants contributions 30 34 50 52 Benefits paid from trust (3,430 ) (3,514 ) (1,792 ) (1,784 ) (400 ) (406 ) (5 ) (5 ) Foreign exchange impact (2,175 ) (3,004 ) 9 (26 ) Amendments/curtailments/ settlements/other (10 )* 14 * 0 (1 ) Fair value of plan assets at December 31 $ 51,405 $ 51,716 $ 36,020 $ 35,748 $ 26 $ 71 $ 71 $ 59 Funded status at December 31 $ (814 ) $ (1,405 ) $ (8,960 ) $ (8,969 ) $ (4,444 ) $ (4,582 ) $ (622 ) $ (558 ) Accumulated benefit obligation** $ 52,218 $ 53,120 $ 44,514 $ 44,071 N/A N/A N/A N/A * Includes the reinstatement of certain plan assets in Brazil due to government rulings in 2011 and 2013 allowing certain previously restricted plan assets to be returned to IBM. Return of assets to IBM over a three-year period began June 2011 and September 2013 respectively, with approximately $23 million returned in 2016 and $33 million returned during 2015. The remaining surplus in Brazil at December 31, 2016 is excluded from total plan assets due to continued restrictions imposed by the government on the use of those plan assets. ** Represents the benefit obligation assuming no future participant compensation increases N/ANot applicable 140 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The following table presents the net funded status recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. ($ in millions) Defined Benefit Pension Plans Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans At December 31: 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Prepaid pension assets $ 1,002 $ 429 $ 2,032 $ 1,304 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Current liabilities compensation and benefits (118 ) (116 ) (303 ) (297 ) (368 ) (320 ) (15 ) (11 ) Noncurrent liabilities retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations (1,698 ) (1,718 ) (10,689 ) (9,976 ) (4,076 ) (4,262 ) (607 ) (547 ) Funded statusnet $ (814 ) $ (1,405 ) $ (8,960 ) $ (8,969 ) $ (4,444 ) $ (4,582 ) $ (622 ) $ (558 ) The following table presents the pre-tax net loss and prior service costs/(credits) and transition (assets)/liabilities recognized in OCI and the changes in the pre-tax net loss, prior service costs/(credits) and transition (assets)/liabilities recognized in AOCI for the retirement-related benefit plans. ($ in millions) Defined Benefit Pension Plans Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Net loss at January 1 $ 19,363 $ 18,442 $ 20,724 $ 21,676 $ 609 $ 852 $ 128 $ 189 Current period loss/(gain) 1,173 2,576 1,251 661 16 (204 ) 14 (51 ) Curtailments and settlements (22 ) (33 ) 20 0 Amortization of net loss included in net periodic (income)/cost (1,314 ) (1,654 ) (1,408 ) (1,581 ) (20 ) (39 ) (9 ) (10 ) Net loss at December 31 $ 19,222 $ 19,363 $ 20,544 $ 20,724 $ 605 $ 609 $ 154 $ 128 Prior service costs/(credits) at January 1 $ 101 $ 110 $ (294 ) $ (386 ) $ 30 $ 23 $ (21 ) $ (26 ) Current period prior service costs/(credits) (6 ) 0 Curtailments and Settlements 0 18 Amortization of prior service (costs)/credits included in net periodic (income)/cost (10 ) (10 ) 106 98 7 7 5 5 Prior service costs/(credits) at December 31 $ 90 $ 101 $ (188 ) $ (294 ) $ 37 $ 30 $ 1 $ (21 ) Transition (assets)/liabilities at January 1 $ $ $ 0 $ 0 $ $ $ 0 $ 0 Amortization of transition assets/(liabilities) included in net periodic (income)/cost 0 0 0 0 Transition (assets)/ liabilities at December 31 $ $ $ 0 $ 0 $ $ $ 0 $ 0 Total loss recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income/ (loss)* $ 19,313 $ 19,464 $ 20,356 $ 20,429 $ 642 $ 639 $ 154 $ 106 * See note L, Equity Activity, for the total change in AOCI, and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the components of net periodic (income)/cost, including the related tax effects, recognized in OCI for the retirement-related benefit plans. 141 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The following table presents the pre-tax estimated net loss, estimated prior service costs/(credits) and estimated transition (assets)/ liabilities of the retirement-related benefit plans that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic (income)/cost in 2017. ($ in millions) Defined Benefit Nonpension Postretirement Pension Plans Benefit Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans Net loss $ 1,348 $ 1,434 $ 21 $ 6 Prior service costs/(credits) 16 (93 ) (7 ) 0 Transition (assets)/liabilities 0 0 On March 24, 2014, the Supreme Court of Spain issued a ruling against IBM Spain in litigation involving its defined benefit and defined contribution plans. During the fourth quarter of 2016, an arbitration ruling related to the defined contribution plan resulted in an additional charge of $56 million. For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, the company recorded pre-tax retirement-related obligations of $56 million, $233 million and $148 million, respectively, in selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. These obligations are reflected in Non-U.S. Plans Multi-employer plans/other costs in the table on page 139. Assumptions Used to Determine Plan Financial Information Underlying both the measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic (income)/cost are actuarial valuations. These valuations use participant-specific information such as salary, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, the most significant of which include estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates. The company evaluates these assumptions, at a minimum, annually, and makes changes as necessary. The table below presents the assumptions used to measure the net periodic (income)/cost and the year-end benefit obligations for retirement-related benefit plans. Defined Benefit Pension Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Weighted-average assumptions used to measure net periodic (income)/cost for the year ended December 31 Discount rate 4.00 % 3.70 % 4.50 % 2.40 % 2.34 % 3.32 % Expected long-term returns on plan assets 7.00 % 7.50 % 8.00 % 5.53 % 5.67 % 6.08 % Rate of compensation increase N/A N/A N/A 2.40 % 2.49 % 2.52 % Weighted-average assumptions used to measure benefit obligations at December 31 Discount rate 3.80 % 4.00 % 3.70 % 1.80 % 2.40 % 2.34 % Rate of compensation increase N/A N/A N/A 2.45 % 2.40 % 2.49 % N/ANot applicable Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Weighted-average assumptions used to measure net periodic cost for the year ended December 31 Discount rate 3.70 % 3.40 % 4.10 % 7.06 % 7.51 % 7.78 % Expected long-term returns on plan assets N/A N/A N/A 9.95 % 10.17 % 10.22 % Weighted-average assumptions used to measure benefit obligations at December 31 Discount rate 3.60 % 3.70 % 3.40 % 8.26 % 7.06 % 7.51 % N/ANot applicable 142 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Discount Rate The discount rate assumptions used for retirement-related benefit plans accounting reflect the yields available on high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments at the measurement date. For the U.S. and certain non-U.S. countries, a portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds is used to construct a yield curve. The cash flows from the companys expected benefit obligation payments are then matched to the yield curve to derive the discount rates. In other non-U.S. countries, where the markets for high-quality long-term bonds are not generally as well developed, a portfolio of long-term government bonds is used as a base, to which a credit spread is added to simulate corporate bond yields at these maturities in the jurisdiction of each plan, as the benchmark for developing the respective discount rates. For the U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the changes in the discount rate assumptions impacted the net periodic (income)/ cost and the PBO. The changes in the discount rate assumptions resulted in an increase in 2016 net periodic income of $103 million, a decrease in 2015 net periodic income of $286 million and an increase in 2014 net periodic income of $275 million. The changes in the discount rate assumptions resulted in an increase in the PBO of $998 million and a decrease of $1,621 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. For the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the changes in the discount rate assumptions had no material impact on net periodic cost for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, and resulted in an increase in the APBO of $33 million and a decrease of $109 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. For all of the companys retirement-related benefit plans, the change in the discount rate assumptions resulted in an increase in the benefit obligation of approximately $4.8 billion at December 31, 2016 and a decrease of approximately $2.4 billion at December 31, 2015. Expected Long-Term Returns on Plan Assets Expected returns on plan assets, a component of net periodic (income)/cost, represent the expected long-term returns on plan assets based on the calculated market-related value of plan assets. Expected long-term returns on plan assets take into account long-term expectations for future returns and the investment policies and strategies as described on page 144. These rates of return are developed by the company and are tested for reasonableness against historical returns. The use of expected long-term returns on plan assets may result in recognized pension income that is greater or less than the actual returns of those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the expected long-term returns are designed to approximate the actual long-term returns, and therefore result in a pattern of income and cost recognition that more closely matches the pattern of the services provided by the employees. Differences between actual and expected returns are recognized as a component of net loss or gain in AOCI, which is amortized as a component of net periodic (income)/cost over the service lives or life expectancy of the plan participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed certain thresholds provided by accounting standards. The market-related value of plan assets recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets systematically over a five-year period in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic (income)/cost. For the U.S. defined benefit pension plan, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was 7.0 percent, 7.5 percent and 8 percent, respectively. The change in the rate in 2016 resulted in a decrease in 2016 net periodic income of $268 million. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the change in the rate resulted in a decrease in net periodic income of $264 million. There was no impact on net periodic income for the year ended December 31, 2014 as the rate was flat at 8 percent compared to the prior year. For 2017, the projected long-term rate of return on plan assets is 5.75 percent. The 125 basis point year-to-year decline is primarily driven by a change in investment strategy. For the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the company maintains a highly liquid trust fund balance to ensure timely payments are made. As a result, for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return on those assets were not material. Rate of Compensation Increases and Mortality Rate The rate of compensation increases is determined by the company, based upon its long-term plans for such increases. The rate of compensation increase is not applicable to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans as benefit accruals ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants. Mortality rate assumptions are based on life expectancy and death rates for different types of participants. Mortality rates are periodically updated based on actual experience. In the U.S., the Society of Actuaries released new mortality tables in 2014 and updated them in 2015 and 2016. The company utilized these tables in its plan remeasurements at December 31, 2016 and 2015. For the U.S. retirement-related plans, the change in mortality assumptions resulted in a decrease to the plan benefit obligations of $0.6 billion and a decrease of $0.7 billion at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Interest Crediting Rate Benefits for certain participants in the PPP are calculated using a cash balance formula. An assumption underlying this formula is an interest crediting rate, which impacts both net periodic (income)/cost and the PBO. This assumption provides a basis for projecting the expected interest rate that participants will earn on the benefits that they are expected to receive in the following year and is based on the average from August to October of the one-year U.S. Treasury Constant Maturity yield plus one percent. For the PPP, the change in the interest crediting rate to 1.3 percent for the year ended December 31, 2016 from 1.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2015 resulted in a decrease in 2016 net periodic income of $7 million. The interest crediting rate of 1.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2015, was unchanged from December 31, 2014 and therefore, had no impact on the decrease in 2015 net periodic income. The change in the interest crediting rate to 1.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2014, from 1.2 percent for the year ended December 31, 2013, resulted in an increase in 2014 net periodic income of $8 million. 143 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Healthcare Cost Trend Rate For nonpension postretirement benefit plan accounting, the company reviews external data and its own historical trends for healthcare costs to determine the healthcare cost trend rates. However, the healthcare cost trend rate has an insignificant effect on plan costs and obligations as a result of the terms of the plan which limit the companys obligation to the participants. The company assumes that the healthcare cost trend rate for 2017 will be 6.75 percent. In addition, the company assumes that the same trend rate will decrease to 5 percent over the next seven years. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would not have had a material effect on 2016, 2015 and 2014 net periodic cost or the benefit obligations as of December 31, 2016 and 2015. Plan Assets Retirement-related benefit plan assets are recognized and measured at fair value. Because of the inherent uncertainty of valuations, these fair value measurements may not necessarily reflect the amounts the company could realize in current market transactions. Investment Policies and Strategies The investment objectives of the Qualified PPP portfolio are designed to generate returns that will enable the plan to meet its future obligations. The precise amount for which these obligations will be settled depends on future events, including the retirement dates and life expectancy of the plans participants. The obligations are estimated using actuarial assumptions, based on the current economic environment and other pertinent factors described on pages 142 through 143. The Qualified PPP portfolios investment strategy balances the requirement to generate returns, using potentially higher yielding assets such as equity securities, with the need to control risk in the portfolio with less volatile assets, such as fixed-income securities. Risks include, among others, inflation, volatility in equity values and changes in interest rates that could cause the plan to become underfunded, thereby increasing its dependence on contributions from the company. To mitigate any potential concentration risk, careful consideration is given to balancing the portfolio among industry sectors, companies and geographies, taking into account interest rate sensitivity, dependence on economic growth, currency and other factors that affect investment returns. In 2016, the company changed its investment strategy, modifying the target asset allocation, primarily by reducing equity securities and increasing debt securities. This change was designed to reduce the potential negative impact that equity markets might have on the funded status of the plan. The Qualified PPP portfolios target allocation is 70 percent fixed-income securities, 20 percent equity securities, 5 percent real estate and 5 percent other investments. The assets are managed by professional investment firms and investment professionals who are employees of the company. They are bound by investment mandates determined by the companys management and are measured against specific benchmarks. Among these managers, consideration is given, but not limited to, balancing security concentration, issuer concentration, investment style and reliance on particular active and passive investment strategies. Market liquidity risks are tightly controlled, with $5,010 million of the Qualified PPP portfolio as of December 31, 2016 invested in private market assets consisting of private equities and private real estate investments, which are less liquid than publicly traded securities. In addition, the Qualified PPP portfolio had $2,142 million in commitments for future investments in private markets to be made over a number of years. These commitments are expected to be funded from plan assets. Derivatives are used as an effective means to achieve investment objectives and/or as a component of the plans risk management strategy. The primary reasons for the use of derivatives are fixed income management, including duration, interest rate management and credit exposure, cash equitization and to manage currency and commodity strategies. Outside the U.S., the investment objectives are similar to those described above, subject to local regulations. The weighted-average target allocation for the non-U.S. plans is 25 percent equity securities, 60 percent fixed-income securities, 3 percent real estate and 12 percent other investments, which is consistent with the allocation decisions made by the companys management. In some countries, a higher percentage allocation to fixed income is required to manage solvency and funding risks. In others, the responsibility for managing the investments typically lies with a board that may include up to 50 percent of members elected by employees and retirees. This can result in slight differences compared with the strategies previously described. Generally, these non-U.S. plans do not invest in illiquid assets and their use of derivatives is consistent with the U.S. plan and mainly for currency hedging, interest rate risk management, credit exposure and alternative investment strategies. The companys nonpension postretirement benefit plans are underfunded or unfunded. For some plans, the company maintains a nominal, highly liquid trust fund balance to ensure timely benefit payments. 144 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets The following table presents the companys defined benefit pension plans asset classes and their associated fair value at December 31, 2016. The U.S. Plan consists of the Qualified PPP and the non-U.S. Plans consist of all plans sponsored by the companys subsidiaries. ($ in millions) U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity Equity securities (1) $ 5,778 $ 1 $ $ 5,779 $ 4,080 $ 0 $ $ 4,080 Equity mutual funds (2) 93 93 35 35 Fixed income Government and related (3) 14,897 14,897 7,577 16 7,593 Corporate bonds (4) 18,063 101 18,164 2,045 1 2,045 Mortgage and asset- backed securities 652 5 656 4 4 Fixed income mutual funds (5) 359 359 22 22 Insurance contracts 1,137 1,137 Cash and short-term investments (6) 55 1,927 1,982 294 707 1,001 Real estate 294 294 Derivatives (7) 18 20 38 43 752 796 Other mutual funds (8) 114 114 Subtotal 6,303 35,560 106 41,969 4,589 12,223 310 17,122 Investments measured at net asset value using the NAV practical expedient (9) 9,641 18,946 Other (10) (205 ) (48 ) Fair value of plan assets $ 6,303 $ 35,560 $ 106 $ 51,405 $ 4,589 $ 12,223 $ 310 $ 36,020 (1) Represents U.S. and international securities. The U.S. Plan includes IBM common stock of $28 million, representing 0.1 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. Plans include IBM common stock of $15 million, representing 0.04 percent of the non-U.S. Plans assets. (2) Invests in predominantly equity securities (3) Includes debt issued by national, state and local governments and agencies (4) The U.S. Plan includes IBM corporate bonds of $4 million, representing 0.01 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. plans include IBM corporate bonds of $1 million representing 0.003 percent of the non-U.S. Plan assets. (5) Invests predominantly in fixed income securities (6) Includes cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities (7) Includes interest rate derivatives, forwards, exchange traded and other over-the-counter derivatives (8) Invests in both equity and fixed-income securities (9) Investments measured at fair value using the net asset value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient, including commingled funds, hedge funds, private equity and real estate partnerships (10) Represents net unsettled transactions, relating primarily to purchases and sales of plan assets 145 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $26 million were invested in cash, categorized as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. The non-U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $71 million, primarily in Brazil, and, to a lesser extent, in Mexico and South Africa, were invested primarily in government and related fixed-income securities and corporate bonds, categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The following table presents the companys defined benefit pension plans asset classes and their associated fair value at December 31, 2015. The U.S. Plan consists of the Qualified PPP and the non-U.S. Plans consist of all plans sponsored by the companys subsidiaries. In the following table, some Level 2 and Level 3 assets have been reclassified to reflect the FASB guidance removing investments using NAV as a practical expedient from the fair value hierarchy. The December 31, 2015 Level 3 reconciliation tables have also been reclassified to reflect this change. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. ($ in millions) U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity Equity securities (1) $ 11,210 $ 1 $ $ 11,211 $ 4,631 $ 0 $ $ 4,631 Equity mutual funds (2) 99 99 90 90 Fixed income Government and related (3) 9,854 9,854 7,482 16 7,499 Corporate bonds (4) 17,088 2 17,090 1,896 4 1,899 Mortgage and asset-backed securities 633 10 643 6 6 Fixed income mutual funds (5) 313 313 38 38 Insurance contracts 1,079 1,079 Cash and short-term investments (6) 244 2,305 2,549 142 422 564 Real estate 411 411 Derivatives (7) (82 ) 2 (80 ) (1 ) 481 480 Other mutual funds (8) 115 115 Subtotal 11,784 29,884 12 41,680 5,016 11,366 431 16,812 Investments measured at net asset value using the NAV practical expedient (9) 10,179 18,986 Other (10) (143 ) (50 ) Fair value of plan assets $ 11,784 $ 29,884 $ 12 $ 51,716 $ 5,016 $ 11,366 $ 431 $ 35,748 (1) Represents U.S. and international securities. The U.S. Plan includes IBM common stock of $34 million, representing 0.1 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. Plans include IBM common stock of $14 million, representing 0.04 percent of the non-U.S. Plans assets. (2) Invests in predominantly equity securities (3) Includes debt issued by national, state and local governments and agencies (4) The U.S. Plan includes IBM corporate bonds of $23 million, representing 0.04 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. plans include IBM corporate bonds of $1 million representing 0.004 percent of the non-U.S. Plan assets. (5) Invests in predominantly fixed-income securities (6) Includes cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities (7) Includes interest rate derivatives, forwards, exchange traded and other over-the-counter derivatives (8) Invests in both equity and fixed-income securities (9) Investments measured at fair value using the net asset value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient, including commingled funds, hedge funds, private equity and real estate partnerships (10) Represents net unsettled transactions, relating primarily to purchases and sales of plan assets The U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $71 million were invested in cash, categorized as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. The non-U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $59 million, primarily in Brazil, and, to a lesser extent, in Mexico and South Africa, were invested primarily in government and related fixed-income securities and corporate bonds, categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. 146 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The following tables present the reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of Level 3 assets for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 for the U.S. Plan. ($ in millions) Mortgage and Asset- Corporate Backed Bonds Securities Total Balance at January 1, 2016 $ 2 $ 10 $ 12 Return on assets held at end of year (3 ) 0 (2 ) Return on assets sold during the year 0 1 1 Purchases, sales and settlements, net 103 (5 ) 99 Transfers, net (2 ) (2 ) (3 ) Balance at December 31, 2016 $ 101 $ 5 $ 106 ($ in millions) Mortgage and Asset- Corporate Backed Bonds Securities Total Balance at January 1, 2015 $ 4 $ 20 $ 24 Return on assets held at end of year 0 0 0 Return on assets sold during the year 1 0 1 Purchases, sales and settlements, net (5 ) (2 ) (7 ) Transfers, net 2 (8 ) (6 ) Balance at December 31, 2015 $ 2 $ 10 $ 12 The following tables present the reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of Level 3 assets for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 for the non-U.S. Plans. ($ in millions) Government Corporate Real and Related Bonds Estate Total Balance at January 1, 2016 $ 16 $ 4 $ 411 $ 431 Return on assets held at end of year 1 0 (22 ) (21 ) Return on assets sold during the year 0 0 35 35 Purchases, sales and settlements, net 0 (3 ) (68 ) (72 ) Transfers, net 0 0 Foreign exchange impact 0 0 (62 ) (63 ) Balance at December 31, 2016 $ 16 $ 1 $ 294 $ 310 147 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) Government Corporate and Related Bonds Real Estate Total Balance at January 1, 2015 $ 32 $ 1 $ 411 $ 444 Return on assets held at end of year (2 ) 0 28 26 Return on assets sold during the year 0 0 42 42 Purchases, sales and settlements, net (10 ) 3 (51 ) (58 ) Transfers, net Foreign exchange impact (3 ) 0 (20 ) (23 ) Balance at December 31, 2015 $ 16 $ 4 $ 411 $ 431 Valuation Techniques The following is a description of the valuation techniques used to measure plan assets at fair value. There were no changes in valuation techniques during 2016 and 2015. Equity securities are valued at the closing price reported on the stock exchange on which the individual securities are traded. IBM common stock is valued at the closing price reported on the New York Stock Exchange. Mutual funds are typically valued based on quoted market prices. These assets are generally classified as Level 1. The fair value of fixed-income securities is typically estimated using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows and are generally classified as Level 2. If available, they are valued using the closing price reported on the major market on which the individual securities are traded. Cash includes money market accounts that are valued at their cost plus interest on a daily basis, which approximates fair value. Short-term investments represent securities with original maturities of one year or less. These assets are classified as Level 1 or Level 2. Real estate valuations require significant judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. These assets are initially valued at cost and are reviewed periodically utilizing available and relevant market data, including appraisals, to determine if the carrying value of these assets should be adjusted. These assets are classified as Level 3. Exchange traded derivatives are valued at the closing price reported on the exchange on which the individual securities are traded, while forward contracts are valued using a mid-close price. Over-the-counter derivatives are typically valued using pricing models. The models require a variety of inputs, including, for example, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility and foreign exchange rates. These assets are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 depending on availability of quoted market prices. Certain investments are measured at fair value using the net asset value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient. These investments, which include commingled funds, hedge funds, private equity and real estate partnerships, are typically valued using the net asset value (NAV) provided by the administrator of the fund and reviewed by the company. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund, minus liabilities and divided by the number of shares or units outstanding. In accordance with FASB guidance, these investments have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes. Contributions Defined Benefit Pension Plans It is the companys general practice to fund amounts for pensions sufficient to meet the minimum requirements set forth in applicable employee benefits laws and local tax laws. From time to time, the company contributes additional amounts as it deems appropriate. The company contributed $169 million in cash and $295 million in U.S. Treasury Securities to non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans as well as $43 million in cash to multi-employer plans for the year ended December 31, 2016. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the company contributed $474 million in cash to non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $40 million in cash to multi-employer plans. The cash contributions to multi-employer plans represent the annual cost included in net periodic (income)/cost recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The companys participation in multi-employer plans has no material impact on the companys financial statements. In 2017, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans. However, depending on market conditions, or other factors, the company may elect to make discretionary contributions to the Qualified PPP during the year. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act), enacted into law in 2006, is a comprehensive reform package that, among other provisions, increases pension funding requirements for certain U.S. defined benefit plans, provides guidelines for measuring pension plan assets and pension obligations for funding purposes and raises tax deduction limits for contributions to retirement-related benefit plans. The additional funding requirements by the Act apply to plan years beginning after December 31, 2007. The Act was updated by the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, which revised the funding requirements in the Act by clarifying that pension plans may smooth the value of pension plans over 24 months. At December 31, 2016, no mandatory contribution was required for 2017. In 2017, the company estimates contributions to its non-U.S. defined benefit and multi-employer plans to be approximately $500 million, the largest of which will be contributed to defined benefit pension plans in the UK, Japan and Spain. This amount represents the legally mandated minimum contributions. 148 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Financial market performance in 2017 could increase the legally mandated minimum contribution in certain countries which require monthly or daily remeasurement of the funded status. The company could also elect to contribute more than the legally mandated amount based on market conditions or other factors. Defined Contribution Plans The company contributed $1,046 million and $1,117 million in cash to the defined contribution plans during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In 2017, the company estimates cash contributions to the defined contribution plans to be approximately $1.0 billion. Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans The company contributed $305 million and $408 million to the nonpension postretirement benefit plans during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The $305 million contribution in 2016 consisted of $80 million in cash and $225 million in U.S. Treasury securities. The $408 million contribution in 2015 consisted of $328 million in cash and $80 million in U.S. Treasury securities. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Expected Benefit Payments Defined Benefit Pension Plan Expected Payments The following table presents the total expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants. These payments have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the plans PBO at December 31, 2016 and include benefits attributable to estimated future compensation increases, where applicable. ($ in millions) Total Qualified Nonqualified Qualified Nonqualified Expected U.S. Plan U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans Benefit Payments Payments Payments Payments Payments 2017 $ 3,519 $ 120 $ 1,689 $ 306 $ 5,634 2018 3,519 121 1,705 301 5,646 2019 3,504 121 1,730 312 5,668 2020 3,589 122 1,741 358 5,809 2021 3,525 123 1,783 376 5,806 20222026 16,970 594 9,077 2,121 28,762 The 2017 expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants not covered by the respective plan assets (underfunded plans) represent a component of compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan Expected Payments The following table reflects the total expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit plan participants. These payments have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the plans APBO at December 31, 2016. ($ in millions) Total Qualified Nonqualified Expected U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans Benefit Payments Payments Payments Payments 2017 $ 396 $ 6 $ 30 $ 432 2018 397 6 32 435 2019 403 6 34 443 2020 405 6 37 448 2021 395 7 39 441 20222026 1,743 36 219 1,998 The 2017 expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit plan participants not covered by the respective plan assets represent a component of compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Other Plan Information The following table presents information for defined benefit pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) in excess of plan assets. For a more detailed presentation of the funded status of the companys defined benefit pension plans, see the table on page 140. 149 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) 2016 2015 Benefit Plan Benefit Plan At December 31: Obligation Assets Obligation Assets Plans with PBO in excess of plan assets $ 29,182 $ 16,374 $ 29,784 $ 17,677 Plans with ABO in excess of plan assets 28,770 16,272 29,135 17,492 Plans with assets in excess of PBO 68,017 71,051 68,053 69,786 NOTE T. SEGMENT INFORMATION In January 2016, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system consistent with its ongoing transformation to a cognitive solutions and cloud platform business. With these changes, the company updated its reportable segments. The company filed a recast 2015 Annual Report in a Form 8-K on June 13, 2016 to recast its historical segment information to reflect these changes. The companys five reportable segments are as follows: The Cognitive Solutions segment includes solutions units that address many of the companys strategic areas, including analytics, commerce and security, several of the new initiatives around Watson Platform, Watson Health, Watson Internet of Things and Transaction Processing Software. The Technology Services & Cloud Platforms segment includes the companys cloud infrastructure and platform capabilities, the previously reported Global Technology Services business and Integration Software. Operating Systems Software has been aligned with the underlying hardware platforms in the Systems segment. The Global Business Services and Global Financing segments remain unchanged. The company also realigned a portion of its software support revenue, which was previously managed and reported in Integrated Technology Services within Global Technology Services, to the underlying software product areas. The segments represent components of the company for which separate financial information is available that is utilized on a regular basis by the chief operating decision maker (the chief executive officer) in determining how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. The segments are determined based on several factors, including client base, homogeneity of products, technology, delivery channels and similar economic characteristics. Information about each segments business and the products and services that generate each segments revenue is located in the Description of Business section on pages 32 to 34, and in the Segment Details, on pages 36 to 41 in the Management Discussion. Segment revenue and pre-tax income include transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arms-length, market-based transfer price. Systems that are used by Technology Services & Cloud Platforms in outsourcing engagements are primarily sourced internally from the Systems segment and software is sourced from various segments. Software used by Technology Services & Cloud Platforms on external engagements is sourced internally through Cognitive Solutions and the Systems segments. For providing IT services that are used internally, Technology Services & Cloud Platforms and Global Business Services recover cost, as well as a reasonable fee, that is intended to reflect the arms-length value of providing the services. They enter into arms-length loans at prices equivalent to market rates with Global Financing to facilitate the acquisition of equipment and software used in services engagements. All internal transaction prices are reviewed annually, and reset if appropriate. The company utilizes globally integrated support organizations to realize economies of scale and efficient use of resources. As a result, a considerable amount of expense is shared by all of the segments. This shared expense includes sales coverage, certain marketing functions and support functions such as Accounting, Treasury, Procurement, Legal, Human Resources and Billing and Collections. Where practical, shared expenses are allocated based on measurable drivers of expense, e.g., headcount. When a clear and measurable driver cannot be identified, shared expenses are allocated on a financial basis that is consistent with the companys management system, e.g., advertising expense is allocated based on the gross profits of the segments. A portion of the shared expenses, which are recorded in net income, are not allocated to the segments. These expenses are associated with the elimination of internal transactions and other miscellaneous items. The following tables reflect the results of continuing operations of the companys segments consistent with the management and measurement system utilized within the company. Performance measurement is based on pre-tax income from continuing operations. These results are used, in part, by the chief operating decision maker, both in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments. 150 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Management System Segment View ($ in millions) Cognitive Solutions & Industry Services Technology Global Services & Cognitive Business Cloud Global Total For the year ended December 31: Solutions Services Platforms Systems Financing Segments 2016 External revenue $ 18,187 $ 16,700 $ 35,337 $ 7,7 14 $ 1,692 $ 79,630 Internal revenue 2,630 409 715 750 1,802 6,307 Total revenue $ 20,817 $ 17,109 $ 36,052 $ 8,464 $ 3,494 $ 85,936 Pre-tax income from continuing operations $ 6,352 $ 1,732 $ 4,707 $ 933 $ 1,656 $ 15,380 Revenue year-to-year change 3.8 % (3.1 )% 0.6 % (18.0 )% (22.0 )% (2.7 )% Pre-tax income year-to-year change (12.3 )% (33.4 )% (17.0 )% (45.8 )% (29.9 )% (21.5 )% Pre-tax income margin 30.5 % 10.1 % 13.1 % 11.0 % 47. 4 % 1 7.9 % 2015 External revenue $ 17,841 $ 17,166 $ 35,142 $ 9,547 $ 1,840 $ 81,535 Internal revenue 2,215 499 698 778 2,637 6,826 Total revenue $ 20,055 $ 17,664 $ 35,840 $ 10,325 $ 4,477 $ 88,361 Pre-tax income from continuing operations $ 7,245 $ 2,602 $ 5,669 $ 1,722 $ 2,364 $ 19,602 Revenue year-to-year change (8.4 )% (11.9 )% (9.8 )% (22.4 )% (1.0 )% (11.2 )% Pre-tax income year-to-year change (11.8 )% (22.3 )% (20.0 )% 24.4 % 8.0 % (11.8 )% Pre-tax income margin 36.1 % 14.7 % 15.8 % 16.7 % 52.8 % 22.2 % 2014 External revenue $ 19,689 $ 19,512 $ 38,889 $ 12,294 $ 2,034 $ 92,418 Internal revenue 2,216 543 840 1,006 2,488 7,093 Total revenue $ 21,906 $ 20,055 $ 39,729 $ 13,300 $ 4,522 $ 99,512 Pre-tax income from continuing operations $ 8,215 $ 3,347 $ 7,084 $ 1,384 $ 2,189 $ 22,219 Revenue year-to-year change (0.1 )% (8.5 )% (0.9 )% (19.8 )% 5.1 % (5.1 )% Pre-tax income year-to-year change (5.2 )% (2.9 )% (7.3 )% (21.5 )% 0.8 % (6.2 )% Pre-tax income margin 37.5 % 16.7 % 17.8 % 10.4 % 48.4 % 22.3 % 151 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Reconciliations of IBM as Reported ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Revenue Total reportable segments $ 85,936 $ 88,361 $ 99,512 Other revenue 289 206 374 Elimination of internal transactions (6,307 ) (6,826 ) (7,093 ) Total IBM consolidated revenue $ 79,919 $ 81,741 $ 92,793 ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015** 2014** Pre-tax income from continuing operations: Total reportable segments $ 15,380 $ 19,602 $ 22,219 Amortization of acquired intangible assets (998 ) (677 ) (791 ) Acquisition-related charges (5 ) (26 ) (12 ) Non-operating retirement- related (costs)/income (598 ) (1,050 ) (353 ) Elimination of internal transactions (1,160 ) (1,675 ) (1,746 ) Unallocated corporate amounts* (290 ) (230 ) 688 Total pre-tax income from continuing operations $ 12,330 $ 15,945 $ 19,986 * The 2014 amount includes the gain related to the Retail Store Solutions divestiture and the net gain related to the System x business divestiture. ** Reclassified to conform to 2016 presentation. Immaterial Items Investment in Equity Alliances and Equity Alliances Gains/(Losses) The investments in equity alliances and the resulting gains and (losses) from these investments that are attributable to the segments did not have a material effect on the financial position or the financial results of the segments. Segment Assets and Other Items Cognitive Solutions assets are mainly goodwill, acquired intangible assets and accounts receivable. Global Business Services assets are primarily goodwill and accounts receivable. Technology Services & Cloud Platforms assets are primarily goodwill, plant, property and equipment including the assets associated with the outsourcing business, deferred services arrangement transition costs, accounts receivable and acquired intangible assets. Systems assets are primarily goodwill, plant, property and equipment, and manufacturing inventory. Global Financing assets are primarily financing receivables, cash and marketable securities, and fixed assets under operating leases. To ensure the efficient use of the companys space and equipment, several segments may share plant, property and equipment assets. Where assets are shared, landlord ownership of the assets is assigned to one segment and is not allocated to each user segment. This is consistent with the companys management system and is reflected accordingly in the table on page 153. In those cases, there will not be a precise correlation between segment pre-tax income and segment assets. Similarly, the depreciation amounts reported by each segment are based on the assigned landlord ownership and may not be consistent with the amounts that are included in the segments pre-tax income. The amounts that are included in pre-tax income reflect occupancy charges from the landlord segment and are not specifically identified by the management reporting system. Capital expenditures that are reported by each segment also are consistent with the landlord ownership basis of asset assignment. Global Financing amounts for interest income and interest expense reflect the interest income and interest expense associated with the Global Financing business, including the intercompany financing activities discussed on page 34, as well as the income from investment in cash and marketable securities. The explanation of the difference between cost of financing and interest expense for segment presentation versus presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings is included on page 80 of the Management Discussion. 152 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Management System Segment View ($ in millions) Cognitive Solutions & Industry Services Technology Global Services & Cognitive Business Cloud Global Total For the year ended December 31: Solutions Services Platforms Systems Financing Segments 2016 Assets $ 25,517 $ 8,628 $ 24,085 $ 3,812 $ 36,492 $ 98,534 Depreciation/amortization of intangibles* 1,228 104 2,224 375 317 4,248 Capital expenditures/investments in intangibles 495 55 2,382 453 380 3,764 Interest income 1,547 1,547 Interest expense 371 371 2015 Assets $ 20,017 $ 8,327 $ 23,530 $ 3,967 $ 36,157 $ 91,999 Depreciation/amortization of intangibles* 921 81 1,944 321 343 3,610 Capital expenditures/investments in intangibles 448 86 2,619 321 356 3,830 Interest income 1,720 1,720 Interest expense 469 469 2014 Assets $ 19,525 $ 8,831 $ 22,512 $ 4,219 $ 38,845 $ 93,933 Depreciation/amortization of intangibles* 1,040 98 1,982 734 455 4,308 Capital expenditures/investments in intangibles 413 79 2,321 627 482 3,921 Interest income 1,951 1,951 Interest expense 518 518 * Segment pre-tax income from continuing operations does not include the amortization of intangible assets. 153 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Reconciliations of IBM as Reported ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Assets Total reportable segments $ 98,534 $ 91,999 $ 93,933 Elimination of internal transactions (5,670 ) (4,709 ) (5,193 ) Unallocated amounts Cash and marketable securities 6,752 6,634 7,182 Notes and accounts receivable 2,660 2,333 4,253 Deferred tax assets 5,078 4,693 6,465 Plant, other property and equipment 2,656 2,650 2,169 Pension assets 3,034 1,734 2,160 Other 4,425 5,161 6,303 Total IBM consolidated assets $ 117,470 $ 110,495 $ 117,271 Major Clients No single client represented 10 percent or more of the companys total revenue in 2016, 2015 or 2014. Geographic Information The following provides information for those countries that are 10 percent or more of the specific category. Revenue* ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 United States $ 30,194 $ 30,514 $ 32,021 Japan 8,339 7,544 8,382 Other countries 41,386 43,683 52,390 Total IBM consolidated revenue $ 79,919 $ 81,741 $ 92,793 * Revenues are attributed to countries based on the location of the client. Plant and Other PropertyNet ($ in millions) At December 31: 2016 2015 2014 United States $ 4,701 $ 4,644 $ 4,388 Other countries 5,607 5,532 5,690 Total $ 10,308 $ 10,176 $ 10,078 Revenue by Classes of Similar Products or Services The following table presents external revenue for similar classes of products or services within the companys reportable segments. Client solutions often include IBM software and systems and other suppliers products if the client solution requires it. For each of the segments that include services; Software-as-a-Service, consulting, education, training and other product-related services are included as services. For each of these segments, software includes product license charges and ongoing subscriptions. ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 Cognitive Solutions Software $ 13,969 $ 14,557 $ 16,502 Services 4,111 3,175 3,143 Systems 107 108 44 Global Business Services Services $ 16,399 $ 16,851 $ 19,202 Software 179 164 186 Systems 121 151 124 Technology Services & Cloud Platforms Services $ 24,311 $ 23,947 $ 26,462 Maintenance 5,862 6,085 6,790 Software 3,818 3,907 4,332 Systems 1,346 1,203 1,304 Systems Servers $ 3,567 $ 5,032 $ 7,177 Storage 2,083 2,325 2,641 Software 1,586 1,749 2,053 Services 478 442 423 Global Financing Financing $ 1,231 $ 1,386 $ 1,543 Used equipment sales 461 454 491 NOTE U. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On January 31, 2017, the company announced that the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $1.40 per common share. The dividend is payable March 10, 2017 to shareholders of record on February 10, 2017. On January 24, 2017, the company issued $2.75 billion in bonds as follows: $500 million of 3-year floating-rate bonds priced at LIBOR plus 23 basis points, $750 million of 3-year fixed-rate bonds with a 1.9 percent coupon, $1.0 billion of 5-year fixed-rate bonds with a 2.5 percent coupon and $500 million of 10-year fixed-rate bonds with a 3.3 percent coupon. 154 Five-Year Comparison of Selected Financial Data International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions except per share amounts) For the year ended December 31: 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Revenue $ 79,919 $ 81,741 $ 92,793 $ 98,367 $ 102,874 Income from continuing operations $ 11,881 $ 13,364 $ 15,751 $ 16,881 $ 16,999 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (9 ) $ (174 ) $ (3,729 ) $ (398 ) $ (395 ) Net income $ 11,872 $ 13,190 $ 12,022 $ 16,483 $ 16,604 Operating (non-GAAP) earnings* $ 13,031 $ 14,659 $ 16,702 $ 18,356 $ 18,022 Earnings/(loss) per share of common stock: Assuming dilution: Continuing operations $ 12.39 $ 13.60 $ 15.59 $ 15.30 $ 14.71 Discontinued operations $ (0.01 ) $ (0.18 ) $ (3.69 ) $ (0.36 ) $ (0.34 ) Total $ 12.38 $ 13.42 $ 11.90 $ 14.94 $ 14.37 Basic: Continuing operations $ 12.44 $ 13.66 $ 15.68 $ 15.42 $ 14.88 Discontinued operations $ (0.01 ) $ (0.18 ) $ (3.71 ) $ (0.36 ) $ (0.35 ) Total $ 12.43 $ 13.48 $ 11.97 $ 15.06 $ 14.53 Diluted operating (non-GAAP)* $ 13.59 $ 14.92 $ 16.53 $ 16.64 $ 15.60 Cash dividends paid on common stock $ 5,256 $ 4,897 $ 4,265 $ 4,058 $ 3,773 Per share of common stock 5.50 5.00 4.25 3.70 3.30 Investment in property, plant and equipment $ 3,567 $ 3,579 $ 3,740 $ 3,623 $ 4,082 Return on IBM stockholders equity 74.0 % 101.1 % 72.5 % 83.8 % 81.6 % At December 31: 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total assets $ 117,470 $ 110,495 $ 117,271 $ 125,641 $ 118,965 Net investment in property, plant and equipment $ 10,830 $ 10,727 $ 10,771 $ 13,821 $ 13,996 Working capital $ 7,613 $ 8,235 $ 7,797 $ 9,610 $ 4,413 Total debt $ 42,169 $ 39,890 $ 40,722 $ 39,637 $ 33,209 Total equity $ 18,392 $ 14,424 $ 12,014 $ 22,929 $ 18,984 * Refer to the GAAP Reconciliation, on page 63 of the companys 2014 Annual Report for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for 2013 and 2012. Also see GAAP Reconciliation, on pages 48, 49 and 66 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for 2016, 2015 and 2014. 155 Selected Quarterly Data International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions except per share amounts and stock prices) First Second Third Fourth 2016 Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Full Year Revenue $ 18,684 $ 20,238 $ 19,226 $ 21,770 $ 79,919 Gross profit $ 8,686 $ 9,702 $ 9,013 $ 10,893 $ 38,294 Income from continuing operations $ 2,016 $ 2,505 $ 2,854 $ 4,505 $ 11,881 Income/(loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (3 ) $ 0 $ (1 ) $ (4 ) $ (9 ) Net income $ 2,014 $ 2,504 $ 2,853 $ 4,501 $ 11,872 Operating (non-GAAP) earnings* $ 2,270 $ 2,835 $ 3,149 $ 4,776 $ 13,031 Earnings per share of common stock** Assuming dilution: Continuing operations $ 2.09 $ 2.61 $ 2.98 $ 4.73 $ 12.39 Discontinued operations $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.01 ) Total $ 2.09 $ 2.61 $ 2.98 $ 4.72 $ 12.38 Basic: Continuing operations $ 2.09 $ 2.62 $ 2.99 $ 4.75 $ 12.44 Discontinued operations $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.01 ) Total $ 2.09 $ 2.62 $ 2.99 $ 4.74 $ 12.43 Diluted operating (non-GAAP)* $ 2.35 $ 2.95 $ 3.29 $ 5.01 $ 13.59 Dividends per share of common stock $ 1.30 $ 1.40 $ 1.40 $ 1.40 $ 5.50 Stock prices++ High $ 151.45 $ 155.35 $ 163.53 $ 168.51 Low $ 117.85 $ 143.50 $ 151.68 $ 149.63 ($ in millions except per share amounts and stock prices) First Second Third Fourth 2015 Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Full Year Revenue $ 19,590 $ 20,813 $ 19,280 $ 22,059 $ 81,741 Gross profit $ 9,452 $ 10,390 $ 9,436 $ 11,407 $ 40,684 Income from continuing operations $ 2,415 $ 3,526 $ 2,962 $ 4,460 $ 13,364 Income/(loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (88 ) $ (77 ) $ (12 ) $ 3 $ (174 ) Net income $ 2,328 $ 3,449 $ 2,950 $ 4,463 $ 13,190 Operating (non-GAAP) earnings* $ 2,890 $ 3,790 $ 3,272 $ 4,707 $ 14,659 Earnings per share of common stock** Assuming dilution: Continuing operations $ 2.44 $ 3.58 $ 3.02 $ 4.59 $ 13.60 Discontinued operations $ (0.09 ) $ (0.08 ) $ (0.01 ) $ 0.00 $ (0.18 ) Total $ 2.35 $ 3.50 $ 3.01 $ 4.59 $ 13.42 Basic: Continuing operations $ 2.45 $ 3.59 $ 3.04 $ 4.60 $ 13.66 Discontinued operations $ (0.09 ) $ (0.08 ) $ (0.01 ) $ 0.00 $ (0.18 ) Total $ 2.36 $ 3.51 $ 3.03 $ 4.60 $ 13.48 Diluted operating (non-GAAP)* $ 2.91 $ 3.84 $ 3.34 $ 4.84 $ 14.92 Dividends per share of common stock $ 1.10 $ 1.30 $ 1.30 $ 1.30 $ 5.00 Stock prices++ High $ 164.83 $ 174.40 $ 173.22 $ 152.39 Low $ 151.55 $ 159.18 $ 140.96 $ 131.75 * Refer to page 71 of the companys first-quarter 2016 Form 10-Q filed on April 26, 2016, page 87 of the companys second-quarter 2016 Form 10-Q filed on July 26, 2016, page 87 of the companys third-quarter 2016 Form 10-Q filed on October 25, 2016, and page 55 under the heading GAAP Reconciliation for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for the quarterly periods of 2016 and 2015. Also see GAAP Reconciliation, on pages 48 and 49 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for full-year 2016 and 2015. ** Earnings Per Share (EPS) in each quarter is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during that quarter while EPS for the full year is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year. Thus, the sum of the four quarters EPS does not equal the full-year EPS. ++ The stock prices reflect the high and low prices for IBMs common stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape for the periods presented. 156 Performance Graph International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Comparison of Five- and Ten-Year Cumulative Total Return for IBM, S&P 500 Stock Index and S&P Information Technology Index The following graphs compare the five- and ten-year cumulative total returns for IBM common stock with the comparable cumulative return of certain Standard & Poors (S&P) indices. Due to the fact that IBM is a company included in the S&P 500 Stock Index, the SECs rules require the use of that index for the required five-year graph. Under those rules, the second index used for comparison may be a published industry or line-of-business index. The S&P Information Technology Index is such an index. IBM is also included in this index. Each graph assumes $100 invested on December 31 (of the initial year shown in the graph) in IBM common stock and $100 invested on the same date in each of the S&P indices. The comparisons assume that all dividends are reinvested. Five-Year (U.S. Dollar) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 IBM Common Stock $ 100.00 $ 105.93 $ 105.74 $ 92.63 $ 82.06 $ 102.73 S & P 500 Index 100.00 116.00 153.58 174.60 177.01 198.18 S & P Information Technology Index 100.00 114.82 147.47 177.13 187.63 213.61 Ten-Year (U.S. Dollar) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 IBM Common Stock $ 100.00 $ 112.84 $ 89.41 $ 141.81 $ 162.07 $ 206.50 $ 218.76 $ 218.36 $ 191.29 $ 169.46 $ 212.15 S & P 500 Index 100.00 105.49 66.46 84.05 96.71 98.75 114.56 151.66 172.42 174.81 195.72 S & P Information Technology Index 100.00 116.31 66.13 106.95 117.85 120.69 138.58 177.98 213.78 226.45 257.81 157 Board of Directors and Senior Leadership International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies BOARD OF DIRECTORS Kenneth I. Chenault Chairman and Chief Executive Officer American Express Company Michael L. Eskew Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer United Parcel Service, Inc. David N. Farr Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Emerson Electric Co. Mark Fields President and Chief Executive Officer Ford Motor Company Alex Gorsky Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Johnson & Johnson Shirley Ann Jackson President Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Andrew N. Liveris Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Dow Chemical Company W. James McNerney, Jr. Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Boeing Company Hutham S. Olayan President and Chief Executive Officer, Olayan America, and Principal, Director and Senior Executive The Olayan Group James W. Owens Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Caterpillar Inc. Virginia M. Rometty Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer IBM Joan E. Spero* Adjunct Senior Research Scholar Columbia University School of International and Public Affairs Sidney Taurel Chairman Pearson plc Peter R. Voser Chairman ABB Ltd. SENIOR LEADERSHIP Simon J. Beaumont Vice President Tax and Treasurer Michelle H. Browdy Senior Vice President Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and General Counsel Erich Clementi Senior Vice President IBM Global Markets Robert F. Del Bene Vice President and Controller Bruno V. Di Leo Allen Senior Vice President IBM Global Markets Mark Foster Senior Vice President IBM Global Business Services Diane J. Gherson Senior Vice President Human Resources Jon C. Iwata Senior Vice President Marketing and Communications Martin Jetter Senior Vice President IBM Global Technology Services James J. Kavanaugh Senior Vice President Transformation and Operations John E. Kelly III Senior Vice President IBM Cognitive Solutions and IBM Research David W. Kenny Senior Vice President IBM Watson and IBM Cloud Platform Kenneth M. Keverian Senior Vice President Corporate Strategy Arvind Krishna Senior Vice President IBM Hybrid Cloud and Director of IBM Research Robert J. LeBlanc Senior Vice President Christina M. Montgomery Vice President Assistant General Counsel and Secretary Robert J. Picciano Senior Vice President IBM Cognitive Systems Michael D. Rhodin Senior Vice President IBM Watson Business Development Virginia M. Rometty Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas W. Rosamilia Senior Vice President IBM Systems Martin J. Schroeter Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bridget A. van Kralingen Senior Vice President IBM Industry Platforms * Term on the Board ends on April 25, 2017. 158 Stockholder Information International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies IBM Stockholder Services Stockholders with questions about their accounts should contact: Computershare Trust Company, N.A., P.O. Box 43078, Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3078 (888) IBM-6700 Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727. Stockholders can also reach Computershare Trust Company, N.A. via e-mail at: ibm@computershare.com Hearing-impaired stockholders with access to a telecommunications device (TDD) can communicate directly with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., by calling (800) 490-1493. Stockholders residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2694. IBM on the Internet Topics featured in this Annual Report can be found online at www.ibm.com. Financial results, news on IBM products, services and other activities can also be found at that website. IBM files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any other filings required by the SEC. IBMs website (www.ibm.com/investor) contains a significant amount of information about IBM, including the companys annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These materials are available free of charge on or through our website. The public may read and copy any materials the company files with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Computershare Investment Plan (formerly IBM Investor Services Program) The Computershare Investment Plan brochure outlines a number of services provided for IBM stockholders and potential IBM investors, including the reinvestment of dividends, direct purchase and the deposit of IBM stock certificates for safekeeping. Call (888) IBM-6700 for a copy of the brochure. Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727. Investors with other requests may write to: IBM Stockholder Relations, New Orchard Road, M/D 325, Armonk, New York 10504. IBM Stock IBM common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Chicago Stock Exchange, and outside the United States. Stockholder Communications Stockholders can get quarterly financial results, a summary of the Annual Meeting remarks, and voting results from the meeting by calling (914) 499-7777, by sending an e-mail to infoibm@us.ibm.com, or by writing to IBM Stockholder Relations, New Orchard Road, M/D 325, Armonk, New York 10504. Annual Meeting The IBM Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on Tuesday, April 25, 2017, at 10 a.m. at the Tampa Marriott Waterside Hotel & Marina, Tampa, Florida. Literature for IBM Stockholders The literature mentioned below on IBM is available without charge from: Computershare Trust Company, N.A., P.O. Box 43078, Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3078 (888) IBM-6700. Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727. The companys annual report on Form 10-K and the quarterly reports on Form 10-Q provide additional information on IBMs business. The 10-K report is released by the end of February; 10-Q reports are released by early May, August and November. An audio recording of the 2016 Annual Report will be available for sight-impaired stockholders in June 2017. The IBM Corporate Responsibility Report highlights IBMs values and its integrated approach to corporate responsibility, including its innovative strategies to transform communities through global citizenship. The full Corporate Responsibility Report is available online at www.ibm.com/responsibility. It is also available in printed form by downloading the report at www.ibm. com/responsibility. General Information Stockholders of record can receive account information and answers to frequently asked questions regarding stockholder accounts online at www.ibm.com/investor. Stockholders of record can also consent to receive future IBM Annual Reports and Proxy Statements online through this site. For answers to general questions about IBM from within the continental United States, call (800) IBM-4YOU. From outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico, call (914) 499-1900. 159 International Business Machines Corporation New Orchard Road, Armonk, New York 10504 (914) 499-1900 AIX, AlchemyAI, Aspera, Blekko, Blue Box, Bluemix, Bluewolf, Clearleap, Cleversafe, Cloudant, Explorys, Gravitant, IBM, IBM Flex Systems, IBM MobilFirst, IBM Watson, Kenexa, Merge Healthcare, OpenPOWER, Phytel, POWER, Power Systems, Resilient, The Weather Company, Silverpop, StrongLoop, Ustream, Watson, Watson Health, Watson IoT, z/OS and z System are trademarks or registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation or its wholly owned subsidiaries. GLOBALFOUNDRIES is a registered trademark of GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. Lenovo is a trademark of Lenovo Group Limited in the United States, other countries, or both. Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States, other countries, or both. UNIX is a registered trademark of the Open Group in the United States and other countries. Other company, product and service names may be trademarks or service marks of others. The IBM Annual Report is printed on recycled paper and is recyclable. Printed in the U.S.A. COL03002-USEN-16 Design: Havas Printing: RR Donnelley EX-21 10 a2230222zex-21.htm EX-21 QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document EXHIBIT 21 INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES Subsidiariesas of December 31, 2016 IBM Argentina Sociedad de Responsabilidad Limitada Argentina 100 IBM Australia Limited Australia 100 IBM Global Financing Australia Limited Australia 100 IBM Oesterreich Internationale Bueromaschinen Gesellschaft m.b.H. Austria 100 IBM Bahamas Limited Bahamas 100 IBM Bahrain SPC Bahrain 100 IBM Bangladesh Private Limited Bangladesh 100 IBM Belgium Financial Services Company sprl/bvba Belgium 100 International Business Machines of Belgium sprl/buba Belgium 100 WTC Insurance Corporation, Ltd. Bermuda 100 IBM BrasilIndustria, Maquinas e Servicos Limitada Brazil 100 Banco IBM S.A. Brazil 100 IBM Bulgaria Ltd. Bulgaria 100 IBM Burkina Faso SARL Burkina Faso 100 IBM Canada LimitedIBM Canada Limitee Canada 100 IBM Global Financing Canada Corporation Canada 100 IBM Tchad SARLU Chad 100 IBM de Chile S.A.C. Chile 100 IBM Global Financing de Chile SpA Chile 100 IBM (China) Investment Company Limited China (P.R.C.) 100 IBM (China) Co., Ltd. China (P.R.C.) 100 IBM Factoring (China) Co., Ltd. China (PRC) 100 IBM de Colombia & C.I.A. S.C.A. Colombia 100 IBM Congo SARL Congo 100 IBM RDC Congo Republic 100 IBM Business Transformation Center, S.r.l. Costa Rica 100 IBM Croatia Ltd./IBM Hrvatska d.o.o. Croatia 100 IBM Ceska Republika spol. s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 IBM Danmark ApS Denmark 100 IBM Global Financing Danmark ApS Denmark 100 IBM del Ecuador, C.A. Ecuador 100 IBM Egypt Business Support Services Egypt 100 IBM Eesti Osauhing (IBM Estonia Ou) Estonia 100 IBM Global Financing Finland Oy Finland 100 Oy IBM Finland AB Finland 100 Compagnie IBM France, S.A.S. France 100 IBM France Financement, S.A. France 100 International Business Machines Gabon SARL Gabon 100 IBM Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 IBM Deutschland Kreditbank GmbH Germany 100 IBM Global Financing Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 International Business Machines Ghana Limited Ghana 100 IBM Hellas Information Handling Systems S.A. Greece 100 IBM China/Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100 IBM Magyarorszagi Kft. Hungary 100 IBM India Private Limited India 100 PT IBM Indonesia Indonesia 100 IBM Ireland Limited Ireland 100 IBM Ireland Product Distribution Limited Ireland 100 IBM Israel Limited Israel 100 IBM Capital Italia S.r.l. Italy 100 IBM Italia Servizi Finanziari S.r.l. Italy 100 IBM Italia S.p.A. Italy 100 IBM Japan Credit LLC Japan 100 IBM Japan, Ltd. Japan 100 IBM East Africa Limited Kenya 100 IBM Global Financing Korea Limited Korea (South) 100 IBM Korea, Inc. Korea (South) 100 IBM Kuwait SPC Kuwait 100 Sabiedriba ar irobezotu atbildibu IBM Latvija Latvia 100 IBM Lietuva Lithuania 100 IBM Services Financial Sector Luxembourg Sarl Luxembourg 100 International Business Machines Madagascar SARLU Madagascar 100 International Information Services Management Limited Malawi 100 IBM CAPITAL MALAYSIA SDN. BHD. Malaysia 100 IBM Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 IBM Malta Limited Malta 100 IBM Mauritius Mauritius 100 IBM Capital Mexico I, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico 100 IBM de Mexico, S. de R.L. Mexico 100 IBM de Mexico, Comercializacion y Servicios S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico 100 IBM Maroc Morocco 100 IBM International Group B.V. Netherlands 100 IBM Nederland Financieringen B.V. Netherlands 100 IBM Nederland B.V. Netherlands 100 IBM New Zealand Limited New Zealand 100 IBM Niger SARLU Niger 100 International Business Machines West Africa Limited Nigeria 100 IBM Finans Norge AS Norway 100 International Business Machines AS Norway 100 IBM Capital Peru S.A.C. Peru 100 IBM del Peru, S.A. Peru 100 IBM Philippines, Incorporated Philippines 100 IBM Global Financing Polska Sp.z.o.o. Poland 100 IBM Polska Sp.z.o.o. Poland 100 Companhia IBM Portuguesa, S.A. Portugal 100 IBM Qatar SSC Qatar 100 IBM Romania Srl Romania 100 IBM East Europe/Asia Ltd. Russia 100 International Business Machines Senegal Senegal 100 IBMInternational Business Machines d.o.o., Belgrade Serbia 100 International Information Services Management Limited Seychelles 100 IBM Limited Sierra Leone 100 IBM CAPITAL SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. Singapore 100 IBM Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100 IBM Slovensko spol s.r.o. Slovak Republic 100 IBM Slovenija d.o.o. Slovenia 100 IBM Global Financing South Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100 IBM South Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Africa 100 IBM Global Financing Espaa, S.L.U. Spain 100 IBM Global Services Espaa, S.A. Spain 100 International Business Machines, S.A. Spain 100 IBM Global Financing Sweden AB Sweden 100 IBM Svenska Aktiebolag Sweden 100 IBM Global Financing Schweiz GmbH Switzerland 100 IBM Schweiz AGIBM Suisse SAIBM Suizzera SAIBM Switzerland Ltd. Switzerland 100 IBM Taiwan Corporation Taiwan 100 IBM Tanzania Limited Tanzania 100 IBM Capital (Thailand) Company Limited Thailand 100 IBM Thailand Company Limited Thailand 100 IBM Tunisie Tunisia 100 IBM (International Business Machines) Turk Limited Sirketi Turkey 100 Technology Products and Services Limited Uganda 100 IBM Ukraine Ukraine 100 IBM Middle East FZLLC United Arab Emirates 100 IBM United Kingdom Limited United Kingdom 100 IBM United Kingdom Asset Leasing Limited United Kingdom 100 IBM United Kingdom Financial Services Limited United Kingdom 100 IBM del Uruguay, S.A. Uruguay 100 IBM Capital Inc. USA (Delaware) 100 IBM Credit LLC USA (Delaware) 100 IBM International Group Capital LLC USA (Delaware) 100 IBM International Foundation USA (Delaware) 100 IBM World Trade Corporation USA (Delaware) 100 Softlayer Technologies, Inc. USA (Delaware) 100 IBM de Venezuela, S.A. Venezuela 100 IBM Vietnam Company Vietnam 100 International Business Machines Zambia Limited Zambia 100 QuickLinks EXHIBIT 21 INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES EX-23.1 11 a2230222zex-23_1.htm EX-23.1 QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document Exhibit 23.1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 2-77235, 33-29022, 33-33458, 33-34406, 33-53777, 33-60225, 33-60227, 33-60237, 33-60815, 333-01411, 33-52931, 33-33590, 333-76914, 333-87708, 333-09055, 333-23315, 333-31305, 333-41813, 333-44981, 333-48435, 333-81157, 333-87751, 333-87859, 333-87925, 333-30424, 333-33692, 333-36510, 333-102872, 333-102870, 333-103471, 333-104806, 333-114190, 333-131934, 333-138326, 333-138327, 333-148964, 333-170559 and 333-171968, 333-76914 and 333-196722) and the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 33-49475(1), 33-31732, 333-03763, 333-27669, 333-32690, 333-101034, 333-212685 and 333-212685-01) of International Business Machines Corporation of our report dated February 28, 2017, relating to the consolidated financial statements and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2016 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 28, 2017, relating to the Financial Statement Schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K. /s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP New York, New York February 28, 2017 QuickLinks Exhibit 23.1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM EX-24.1 12 a2230222zex-24_1.htm EX-24.1 Exhibit 24.1 POWER OF ATTORNEY OF VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Virginia M. Rometty Virginia M. Rometty Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer POWER OF ATTORNEY OF MARTIN J. SCHROETER KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Martin J. Schroeter Martin J. Schroeter Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer POWER OF ATTORNEY OF ROBERT F. DEL BENE KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Vice President and Controller of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Robert F. Del Bene Robert F. Del Bene Vice President and Controller POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Kenneth I. Chenault Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Michael L. Eskew Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ David N. Farr Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Mark Fields Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Alex Gorsky Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Shirley Ann Jackson Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Andrew N. Liveris Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ W. James McNerney, Jr. Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Hutham S. Olayan Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ James W. Owens Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Joan E. Spero Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Sidney Taurel Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28 th day of February 2017. /s/ Peter R. Voser Director EX-24.2 13 a2230222zex-24_2.htm EX-24.2 Exhibit 24.2 RESOLUTION REGARDING FILING OF THE COMPANYS 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K RESOLVED, that the Companys 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K be, and hereby is, approved and that the Officers of the Company be, and they hereby are, authorized and empowered to execute by powers of attorney the Form 10-K and to make such additions, supplements and changes thereto as in their opinion may be necessary or desirable and to cause such material to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and other appropriate regulatory agencies. EX-31.1 14 a2230222zex-31_1.htm EX-31.1 QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document Exhibit 31.1 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(a)/15D-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 I, Virginia M. Rometty, certify that: 1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Business Machines Corporation; 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 4. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure