Managements Discussion and Analysis about Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations. At December 31, 2015, the company had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. See the table on page 63 for the companys contractual obligations, and note M, Contingencies and Commitments, on page 120, for detailed information about the companys guarantees, financial commitments and indemnification arrangements. The company does not have retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities or other material off-balance sheet interests or instruments. Critical Accounting Estimates The application of GAAP requires the company to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect its reported financial condition. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that the company considers to be the most critical to its financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both (a) the nature of the estimate or assumption is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimate and assumption is material to the companys financial condition. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of the companys Board of Directors. The companys significant accounting policies are described in note A, Significant Accounting Policies, on pages 82 to 92. A quantitative sensitivity analysis is provided where that information is reasonably available, can be reliably estimated and provides material information to investors. The amounts used to assess sensitivity (e.g., 1 percent, 10 percent, etc.) are included to allow users of the Annual Report to understand a general direction cause and effect of changes in the estimates and do not represent managements predictions of variability. For all of these estimates, it should be noted that future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted, and estimates require regular review and adjustment. Pension Assumptions For the companys defined benefit pension plans, the measurement of the benefit obligation to employees and net periodic pension (income)/cost requires the use of certain assumptions, including, among others, estimates of discount rates and expected return on plan assets. Changes in the discount rate assumptions would impact the (gain)/loss amortization and interest cost components of the net periodic pension (income)/cost calculation and the projected benefit obligation (PBO). The company increased the discount rate assumption for the IBM Personal Pension Plan (PPP), a U.S.-based defined benefit plan, by 30 basis points to 4.00 percent on December 31, 2015. This change will decrease pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2016 by an estimated $100 million. If the discount rate assumption for the PPP had decreased by 30 basis points on December 31, 2015, pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2016 would have increased by an estimated $98 million. Changes in the discount rate assumptions would impact the PBO which, in turn, may impact the companys funding decisions if the PBO exceeds plan assets. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the discount rate would cause a corresponding decrease or increase, respectively, in the PPPs PBO of an estimated $1.3 billion based upon December 31, 2015 data. 64 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The expected long-term return on plan assets assumption is used in calculating the net periodic pension (income)/cost. Expected returns on plan assets are calculated based on the market-related value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets systematically over a five-year period in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension (income)/cost. The differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected long-term return on plan assets are recognized over five years in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension (income)/cost and also as a component of actuarial (gains)/losses, which are recognized over the service lives or life expectancy of the participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets, as provided by accounting standards. To the extent the outlook for long-term returns changes such that management changes its expected long-term return on plan assets assumption, each 50 basis point increase or decrease in the expected long-term return on PPP plan assets assumption would have an estimated decrease or increase, respectively, of $263 million on the following years pre-tax net periodic pension (income)/cost (based upon the PPPs plan assets at December 31, 2015 and assuming no contributions are made in 2016). The company may voluntarily make contributions or be required, by law, to make contributions to its pension plans. Actual results that differ from the estimates may result in more or less future company funding into the pension plans than is planned by management. Impacts of these types of changes on the companys pension plans in other countries worldwide would vary depending upon the status of each respective plan. In addition to the above, the company evaluates other pension assumptions involving demographic factors, such as retirement age and mortality, and updates these assumptions to reflect experience and expectations for the future. Actual results in any given year can differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other factors. For additional information on the companys pension plans and the development of these assumptions, see Note S, Retirement-Related Benefits, on pages 133 and 134. Revenue Recognition Application of the various accounting principles in GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires the company to make judgments and estimates. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple-deliverable arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting. Other significant judgments include determining whether IBM or a reseller is acting as the principal in a transaction and whether separate contracts are considered part of one arrangement. Revenue recognition is also impacted by the companys ability to estimate sales incentives, expected returns and collectibility. The company considers various factors, including a review of specific transactions, the creditworthiness of the customers, historical experience and market and economic conditions when calculating these provisions and allowances. Evaluations are conducted each quarter to assess the adequacy of the estimates. If these estimates were changed by 10 percent in 2015, net income would have been impacted by $77 million (excluding Global Financing receivables). Costs to Complete Service Contracts The company enters into numerous service contracts through its Global Services business. During the contractual period, revenue, cost and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each contract, especially contracts for which the company uses the percentage-of-completion (POC) method of accounting. If at any time these estimates indicate the POC contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately in cost. The company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its POC-based services contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates require updating. Key factors reviewed by the company to estimate the future costs to complete each contract are future labor costs, future product costs and expected productivity efficiencies. Contract loss provisions recorded as a component of other accrued expenses and liabilities were $12 million and $13 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Income Taxes The company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the company recognizes tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite the companys belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. The company believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its assessment of many factors, including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions, and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that new information becomes available which causes the company to change its judgment regarding the adequacy of existing tax liabilities, such changes to tax liabilities will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. 65 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. In the event that the company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the company will adjust its valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. The consolidated provision for income taxes will change period to period based on nonrecurring events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, the timing and amount of foreign dividend repatriation, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies. To the extent that the provision for income taxes increases/ decreases by 1 percent of income from continuing operations before income taxes, consolidated net income would have decreased/improved by $159 million in 2015. Valuation of Assets The application of business combination and impairment accounting requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires the company to estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated and amortized from goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. The companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. Valuation of Goodwill The company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. In 2015, the company elected to perform the first step of the quantitative test to compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value instead of first conducting a qualitative assessment. The company determines the fair value of its reporting units based on the income approach. Under the income approach, the company calculates the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired. The second step of the impairment test is only required if the first step results in a carrying value in excess of fair value. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, discount rates and future economic and market conditions. The companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. The annual goodwill impairment analysis, which the company performed during the fourth quarter of 2015, did not result in an impairment charge. All of the companys reporting units had fair values that substantially exceeded their carrying values. Loss Contingencies The company is currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. At least quarterly, the company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, the company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the company reassesses the potential liability related to its pending claims and litigation, and may revise its estimates. These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the companys results of operations and financial position. Global Financing Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses The Global Financing business reviews its financing receivables portfolio at least quarterly in order to assess collectibility. A description of the methods used by management to estimate the amount of uncollectible receivables is included in note A, Significant Accounting Policies, on page 91. Factors that could result in actual receivable losses that are materially different from the estimated reserve include sharp changes in the economy, or a significant change in the economic health of a particular client that represents a concentration in Global Financings receivables portfolio. To the extent that actual collectibility differs from managements estimates currently provided for by 10 percent, Global Financings segment pre-tax income and the companys income from continuing operations before income taxes would be higher or lower by an estimated $61 million depending upon whether the actual collectibility was better or worse, respectively, than the estimates. 66 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Residual Value Residual value represents the estimated fair value of equipment under lease as of the end of the lease. Residual value estimates impact the determination of whether a lease is classified as operating or capital. Global Financing estimates the future fair value of leased equipment by using historical models, analyzing the current market for new and used equipment, and obtaining forward-looking product information such as marketing plans and technological innovations. Residual value estimates are periodically reviewed and other than temporary declines in estimated future residual values are recognized upon identification. Anticipated increases in future residual values are not recognized until the equipment is remarketed. Factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from the estimates include significant changes in the used-equipment market brought on by unforeseen changes in technology innovations and any resulting changes in the useful lives of used equipment. To the extent that actual residual value recovery is lower than managements estimates by 10 percent, Global Financings segment pre-tax income and the companys income from continuing operations before income taxes for 2015 would have been lower by an estimated $79 million. If the actual residual value recovery is higher than managements estimates, the increase in income will be realized at the end of lease when the equipment is remarketed. Currency Rate Fluctuations Changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar affect the companys financial results and financial position. At December 31, 2015, currency changes resulted in assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into fewer dollars than at year-end 2014. The company uses financial hedging instruments to limit specific currency risks related to financing transactions and other foreign currency-based transactions. During periods of sustained movements in currency, the marketplace and competition adjust to the changing rates. For example, when pricing offerings in the marketplace, the company may use some of the advantage from a weakening U.S. dollar to improve its position competitively, and price more aggressively to win the business, essentially passing on a portion of the currency advantage to its customers. Competition will frequently take the same action. Consequently, the company believes that some of the currency-based changes in cost impact the prices charged to clients. The company also maintains currency hedging programs for cash management purposes which temporarily mitigate, but do not eliminate, the volatility of currency impacts on the companys financial results. The company translates revenue, cost and expense in its non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period. References to adjusted for currency or constant currency reflect adjustments based upon a simple constant currency mathematical translation of local currency results using the comparable prior periods currency conversion rate. However, this constant currency methodology that the company utilizes to disclose this information does not incorporate any operational actions that management may take in reaction to fluctuating currency rates. Currency movements impacted the companys year-to-year revenue and earnings per share growth in 2015. Based on the currency rate movements in 2015, total revenue decreased 11.9 percent as reported and 4.1 percent at constant currency versus 2014. On an income from continuing operations before income taxes basis, these translation impacts offset by the net impact of hedging activities resulted in a theoretical maximum (assuming no pricing or sourcing actions) decrease of approximately $900 million in 2015, on an as-reported basis and a decrease of approximately $1,000 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The same mathematical exercise resulted in a decrease of approximately $400 million in 2014 on both an as-reported and operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company views these amounts as a theoretical maximum impact to its as-reported financial results. Considering the operational responses mentioned above, movements of exchange rates, and the nature and timing of hedging instruments, it is difficult to predict future currency impacts on any particular period, but the company believes it could be substantially less than the theoretical maximum given the competitive pressure in the marketplace. For non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, translation adjustments are reflected in results of operations. Generally, the company manages currency risk in these entities by linking prices and contracts to U.S. dollars. The company continues to monitor the economic conditions in Venezuela. At the December 31, 2015 SICAD rate of 13.5 Bolivar per USD, the companys net asset position in Venezuela was $29 million reflecting $7 million of currency losses in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in 2015. In mid-February 2016, changes to the currency exchange systems were announced. The company will continue to monitor transactions from the various exchange systems in Venezuela in 2016. The companys operations in Venezuela comprised less than 1 percent of total 2015, 2014 and 2013 revenue, respectively. In January 2014, the Argentinian government devalued its currency from 6 pesos per USD to 8 pesos per USD. On December 16, 2015, the Argentinian government announced an end to the official controls on the foreign exchange market. At December 31,2015 the Argentinian currency was devalued from 9.7 pesos per USD to 12.9 pesos per USD. These devaluations did not have a material impact given the size of the companys operations in Argentina (less than 1 percent of total 2015, 2014 and 2013 revenue, respectively). 67 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Market Risk In the normal course of business, the financial position of the company is routinely subject to a variety of risks. In addition to the market risk associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, other examples of risk include collectibility of accounts receivable and recoverability of residual values on leased assets. The company regularly assesses these risks and has established policies and business practices to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. As a result, the company does not anticipate any material losses from these risks. The companys debt, in support of the Global Financing business and the geographic breadth of the companys operations, contains an element of market risk from changes in interest and currency rates. The company manages this risk, in part, through the use of a variety of financial instruments including derivatives, as described in note D, Financial InstrumentsDerivative Financial Instruments, on pages 101 through 105. To meet disclosure requirements, the company performs a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair values of the companys debt and other financial instruments. The financial instruments that are included in the sensitivity analysis are comprised of the companys cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, short-term and long-term loans, commercial financing and installment payment receivables, investments, long-term and short-term debt and derivative financial instruments. The companys derivative financial instruments generally include interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. To perform the sensitivity analysis, the company assesses the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates on market-sensitive instruments. The market values for interest and foreign currency exchange risk are computed based on the present value of future cash flows as affected by the changes in rates that are attributable to the market risk being measured. The discount rates used for the present value computations were selected based on market interest and foreign currency exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2015 and 2014. The differences in this comparison are the hypothetical gains or losses associated with each type of risk. Information provided by the sensitivity analysis does not necessarily represent the actual changes in fair value that the company would incur under normal market conditions because, due to practical limitations, all variables other than the specific market risk factor are held constant. In addition, the results of the model are constrained by the fact that certain items are specifically excluded from the analysis, while the financial instruments relating to the financing or hedging of those items are included by definition. Excluded items include short-term and long-term receivables from sales-type and direct financing leases, forecasted foreign currency cash flows and the companys net investment in foreign operations. As a consequence, reported changes in the values of some of the financial instruments impacting the results of the sensitivity analysis are not matched with the offsetting changes in the values of the items that those instruments are designed to finance or hedge. The results of the sensitivity analysis at December 31, 2015 and 2014, are as follows: Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2015, a 10 percent decrease in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in a decrease in the fair value of the companys financial instruments of $69 million as compared with a decrease of $123 million at December 31, 2014. A 10 percent increase in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in an increase in the fair value of the companys financial instruments of $66 million as compared to an increase of $119 million at December 31, 2014. Changes in the relative sensitivity of the fair value of the companys financial instrument portfolio for these theoretical changes in the level of interest rates are primarily driven by changes in the companys debt maturities, interest rate profile and amount. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk At December 31, 2015, a 10 percent weaker U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other variables held constant, would result in a decrease in the fair value of the companys financial instruments of $74 million as compared with an increase of $872 million at December 31, 2014. Conversely, a 10 percent stronger U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase in the fair value of the companys financial instruments of $74 million compared with a decrease of $872 million at December 31, 2014. Financing Risks See the Description of Business on page 27 for a discussion of the financing risks associated with the Global Financing business and managements actions to mitigate such risks. Cybersecurity The companys approach to cybersecurity draws on the depth and breadth of its global capabilities, both in terms of its offerings to clients and its internal approaches to risk management. The company has commercial solutions that deliver identity and access management, data security, application security, network security and endpoint security. IBMs solutions include security intelligence, analytics and forensic tools that can collect 68 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies information on customer IT security events and vulnerabilities and provide detailed information to customers about potential threats and security posture. The companys services businesses offer professional solutions for security from assessment to deployment and resource augmentation. In addition, the company offers managed and outsourced security solutions from multiple security operations centers around the world. Finally, security is embedded in a multitude of IBM offerings through secure engineering processes and by critical functions (encryption, access control, etc.) in servers, storage, software, service, and other solutions. From an enterprise perspective, IBM implements a multi-faceted risk-management approach to identify and address cybersecurity risks. The company has established policies and procedures that provide the foundation by which IBMs infrastructure and data are managed. IBM performs ongoing assessments regarding its technical controls and its methods for identifying emerging risks related to cybersecurity. The company uses a layered approach with overlapping controls to defend against cybersecurity attacks and threats on networks, end-user devices, servers, applications and cloud solutions. The company also has a global incident response process to respond to cybersecurity threats. In addition, the company utilizes a combination of online training, educational tools, social media and other awareness initiatives to foster a culture of security awareness and responsibility among its workforce. Employees and Related Workforce Yr.-to-Yr. Percent Change For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 201514 201413 IBM/wholly owned subsidiaries 377,757 379,592 * 431,212 (0.5 )% (12.0 )%* Less-than-wholly owned subsidiaries 9,577 8,862 9,018 8.1 (1.7 ) Complementary 24,464 24,321 23,555 0.6 3.3 * Reflects reduction of approximately 35,000 employees (approximately 8 percent) due to divestitures. As a globally integrated enterprise, the company operates in more than 175 countries and is continuing to shift its business to the higher value segments of enterprise IT. The company continues to remix its skills and people needs to match the best opportunities in the marketplace. The complementary workforce is an approximation of equivalent full-time employees hired under temporary, part-time and limited-term employment arrangements to meet specific business needs in a flexible and cost-effective manner. GLOBAL FINANCING Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as a stand-alone entity. In 2015, the Global Financing business remained focused on its core competenciesproviding IT financing to the companys clients and business partners. For the year, Global Financing delivered external revenue of $1,840 million and total revenue of $4,477 million, maintaining constant gross margins. Total pre-tax income of $2,364 million increased 8.0 percent compared to 2014 and return on equity was 41.5 percent. In addition to the overall health of the economy and its impact on corporate IT budgets, key drivers of Global Financings results are interest rates and originations. Interest rates directly impact Global Financings business by increasing or decreasing both financing revenue and the associated borrowing costs. Originations, which determine the asset base of Global Financings annuity-like business, are impacted by IBMs non-Global Financing sales and services volumes and Global Financings participation rates. Participation rates are the propensity of IBMs clients to finance their transactions through Global Financing in lieu of paying IBM up-front cash or financing through a third party. Results of Operations ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 External revenue $ 1,840 $ 2,034 $ 2,022 Internal revenue 2,637 2,488 2,282 Total revenue 4,477 4,522 4,304 Cost 1,412 1,428 1,417 Gross profit $ 3,065 $ 3,094 $ 2,888 Gross profit margin 68.5 % 68.4 % 67.1 % Pre-tax income $ 2,364 $ 2,189 $ 2,171 After-tax income* $ 1,572 $ 1,462 $ 1,456 Return on equity* 41.5 % 36.8 % 40.6 % * See page 73 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculation. 69 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Total revenue in 2015 decreased $45 million versus 2014 as a result of: A decrease in external revenue of 9.5 percent (up 1.5 percent adjusted for currency) driven by decreases in financing revenue (down 10.2 percent to $1,386 million) and used equipment sales revenue (down 7.6 percent to $454 million); partially offset by An increase in internal revenue of 6.0 percent driven by an increase in used equipment sales revenue (up 10.7 percent to $2,303 million); partially offset by a decrease in financing revenue (down 18.3 percent to $334 million). The decrease in internal and external financing revenue was primarily due to decreases in the average asset balance and yields, as well as a decrease in remarketing lease revenue. Global Financing gross profit decreased 0.9 percent compared to 2014 due to a decrease in financing gross profit, partially offset by an increase in used equipment sales gross profit. The gross profit margin was flat compared to 2014 due to an increase in the equipment sales margin, offset by a shift in mix away from higher margin financing and a decrease in the financing margin. Total revenue in 2014 increased $218 million versus 2013 as a result of: An increase in internal revenue of 9.0 percent driven by an increase in used equipment sales revenue (up 11.1 percent to $2,080 million); partially offset by a decrease in financing revenue (down 0.7 percent to $408 million); and An increase in external revenue of 0.6 percent (up 3 percent adjusted for currency) driven by an increase in financing revenue (up 3.4 percent to $1,543 million), partially offset by a decrease in used equipment sales revenue (down 7.2 percent to $491 million). The decrease in internal financing revenue was primarily due to lower asset yields, partially offset by an increase in the average asset balance. The increase in external financing revenue was due to a higher average asset balance, partially offset by lower asset yields and a decrease in remarketing lease revenue. Global Financing gross profit increased 7.2 percent compared to 2013 due to an increase in used equipment sales gross profit, partially offset by a decrease in financing gross profit. The gross profit margin increased 1.3 points due to an increase in the equipment sales margin, partially offset by a decrease in the financing margin. Global Financing pre-tax income increased 8.0 percent in 2015 versus 2014, following an increase of 0.8 percent in 2014 versus 2013. The increase in 2015 was driven by decreases in SG&A expenses ($107 million) and financing receivables provisions ($96 million), partially offset by the decrease in gross profit ($29 million). The increase in 2014 was driven by the increase in gross profit ($207 million), partially offset by increases in financing receivables provisions ($155 million) and SG&A expenses ($32 million). The decrease in financing receivable provisions in 2015 was due to lower specific reserve requirements, primarily in China and Latin America. At December 31, 2015, the overall allowance for credit losses coverage rate was 2.1 percent, an increase of 23 basis points year over year. The increase in return on equity from the period 2014 to 2015 was driven by the increase in net income and a lower average equity balance. The decrease in return on equity from the period 2013 to 2014 was driven by a higher average equity balance. Financial Condition Balance Sheet ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,555 $ 1,538 Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases 7,594 8,263 Equipment under operating leases external clients (1) 605 774 Client loans 12,525 14,290 Total client financing assets 20,725 23,327 Commercial financing receivables 8,948 8,424 Intercompany financing receivables (2) (3) 4,245 4,611 Other receivables 308 368 Other assets 378 577 Total assets $ 36,157 $ 38,845 Intercompany payables (2) $ 3,089 $ 3,631 Debt (4) 27,205 29,103 Other liabilities 2,134 2,094 Total liabilities 32,428 34,828 Total equity 3,729 4,017 Total liabilities and equity $ 36,157 $ 38,845 (1) Includes intercompany mark-up, priced on an arms-length basis, on products purchased from the companys product divisions, which is eliminated in IBMs consolidated results. (2) Entire amount eliminated for purposes of IBMs consolidated results and therefore does not appear on page 78. (3) These assets, along with all other financing assets in this table, are leveraged at the value in the table using Global Financing debt. (4) Global Financing debt is comprised of intercompany loans and external debt. A portion of Global Financing debt is in support of the companys internal business, or related to intercompany mark-up embedded in the Global Financing assets. 70 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Sources and Uses of Funds The primary use of funds in Global Financing is to originate client and commercial financing assets. Client financing assets for end users consist primarily of IBM systems, software and services, but also include OEM equipment, software and services to meet IBM clients total solutions requirements. Client financing assets are primarily sales-type, direct financing and operating leases for systems products, as well as loans and installment plans for systems, software and services with terms up to seven years. Global Financings client loans and installment payment plans are primarily for software and services and are unsecured. These agreements are subjected to credit analysis to evaluate the associated risk and, when deemed necessary, actions are taken to mitigate risks, which include covenants to protect against credit deterioration during the life of the obligation. Commercial financing receivables arise primarily from inventory and accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. Payment terms for inventory financing and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30 to 90 days. These short-term receivables are primarily unsecured and are also subjected to additional credit analysis in order to evaluate the associated risk. In addition to the actions previously described, in certain circumstances, the company may take mitigation actions to transfer credit risk to third parties, including credit insurance, financial guarantees, nonrecourse borrowings, transfer of receivables recorded as true sale in accordance with accounting guidance or sale of equipment under operating lease. At December 31, 2015, substantially all financing assets were IT related assets, and approximately 55 percent of the total external portfolio was with investment grade clients with no direct exposure to consumers. The reduction in investment grade year to year (5 points) was driven primarily by rating changes within the existing portfolio, not by changing the companys approach to the market. Originations The following are total financing originations: ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 Client financing $ 14,444 $ 15,099 $ 15,792 Commercial financing 40,571 43,664 41,027 Total $ 55,015 $ 58,762 $ 56,819 In 2015, cash collection of client financing assets exceeded new financing originations while new financing originations of commercial financing exceeded collections. This resulted in a net decline in financing assets from December 2014. The decrease in originations in 2015 versus 2014 was due to declining volumes, and the increase in 2014 versus 2013 was due to improving volumes. Internal loan financing with Global Services is executed under a loan facility and is not considered originations. Cash generated by Global Financing in 2015 was deployed to pay intercompany payables and dividends to IBM as well as business partners and OEM suppliers. Global Financing Receivables and Allowances The following table presents external financing receivables excluding residual values, and the allowance for credit losses: ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Gross financing receivables $ 29,086 $ 31,007 Specific allowance for credit losses 517 484 Unallocated allowance for credit losses 93 96 Total allowance for credit losses 610 580 Net financing receivables $ 28,475 $ 30,427 Allowance for credit losses coverage 2.1 % 1.9 % Roll Forward of Global Financing Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses ($ in millions) Allowance Additions/ December 31, January 1, 2015 Used* (Reductions) Other** 2015 $ 580 $ (63 ) $ 144 $ (50 ) $ 610 * Represents reserved receivables, net of recoveries, that were written off during the period. ** Primarily represents translation adjustments. The percentage of Global Financing receivables reserved was 2.1 percent at December 31, 2015, and 1.9 percent at December 31, 2014. Specific reserves increased 7 percent from $484 million at December 31, 2014, to $517 million at December 31, 2015. Unallocated reserves decreased 3 percent from $96 million at December 31, 2014, to $93 million at December 31, 2015, due to the decrease in gross financing receivables, partially offset by higher general reserve requirements in Latin America due to lower credit ratings. Global Financings bad debt expense was $144 million for 2015, compared to $240 million for 2014. The year-to-year decrease in bad debt expense was due to lower specific reserve requirements, primarily in China and Latin America, in the current year. Residual Value Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio. 71 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Global Financing optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment, or used equipment purchased externally. These sales represented 61.6 percent and 56.9 percent of Global Financings revenue in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase was due to a higher volume of used equipment sales for internal transactions. The gross profit margins on these sales were 66.0 percent and 64.9 percent in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in the gross profit margin was driven by a shift in mix toward higher margin internal equipment sales, partially offset by decreases in internal and external equipment sales margins. The table below presents the recorded amount of unguaranteed residual value for sales-type, direct financing and operating leases at December 31, 2015 and 2014. In addition, the table presents the residual value as a percentage of the related original amount financed and a run out of when the unguaranteed residual value assigned to equipment on leases at December 31, 2015 is expected to be returned to the company. In addition to the unguaranteed residual value, on a limited basis, Global Financing will obtain guarantees of the future value of the equipment to be returned at end of lease. While primarily focused on IBM products, guarantees are also obtained for certain OEM products. These third-party guarantees are included in minimum lease payments as provided for by accounting standards in the determination of lease classifications for the covered equipment and provide protection against risk of loss arising from declines in equipment values for these assets. The residual value guarantee increases the minimum lease payments that are utilized in determining the classification of a lease as a sales-type lease, direct financing lease or operating lease. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of sales-type leases were $811 million and $503 million for the financing transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. In 2015, the residual value guarantee program resulted in the company recognizing $608 million of revenue that would otherwise have been recognized in future periods as operating lease revenue. If the company had chosen to not participate in a residual value guarantee program in 2015 and prior years, the 2015 impact would be substantially mitigated by the effect of prior year asset values being recognized as operating lease revenue in the current year. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of direct financing leases were $185 million and $204 million for the financing transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The associated aggregate guaranteed future values at the scheduled end of lease were $54 million and $25 million for the financing transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The cost of guarantees was $5 million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Unguaranteed Residual Value ($ in millions) Total Estimated Run Out of 2015 Balance 2019 and At December 31: 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Beyond Sales-type and direct financing leases $ 671 $ 645 $ 144 $ 172 $ 202 $ 128 Operating leases 166 144 61 46 26 11 Total unguaranteed residual value $ 837 $ 789 $ 205 $ 218 $ 228 $ 139 Related original amount financed $ 15,636 $ 14,223 Percentage 5.4 % 5.6 % Debt At December 31: 2015 2014 Debt-to-equity ratio 7.3 x 7.2 x The debt used to fund Global Financing assets is composed of intercompany loans and external debt. Total debt changes generally correspond with the level of client and commercial financing receivables, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in intercompany and external payables and the change in intercompany investment from IBM. The terms of the intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term and currency underlying the financing receivable and are based on arms-length pricing. Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the companys external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. As previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as a stand-alone entity, and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting Global Financings external client and internal business is included in the Global Financing Results of Operations on page 69 and in note T, Segment Information, on pages 141 to 146. In the companys Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global Financings internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense. 72 Management Discussion International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The following table provides additional information on total company debt. In this table, intercompany activity includes internal loans and leases at arms-length pricing in support of Global Services long-term contracts and other internal activity. The company believes these assets should be appropriately leveraged in line with the overall Global Financing business model. ($ in millions) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Global Financing Segment $ 27,205 $ 29,103 Debt to support external clients $ 23,934 $ 25,531 Debt to support internal clients 3,271 3,572 Non-Global Financing Segments 12,684 11,619 * Debt supporting operations 15,955 15,191 * Intercompany activity (3,271 ) (3,572 ) Total company debt $ 39,890 $ 40,722 * * Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on debt issuance costs in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. Liquidity and Capital Resources Global Financing is a segment of the company, and therefore is supported by the companys overall liquidity position and access to capital markets. Cash generated by Global Financing was deployed to pay dividends to the company in order to maintain an appropriate debt-to-equity ratio. Return on Equity ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Numerator Global Financing after-tax income (1) * $ 1,572 $ 1,462 Denominator Average Global Financing equity (2) ** $ 3,785 $ 3,973 Global Financing return on equity (1)/(2) 41.5 % 36.8 % * Calculated based upon an estimated tax rate principally based on Global Financings geographic mix of earnings as IBMs provision for income taxes is determined on a consolidated basis. ** Average of the ending equity for Global Financing for the last five quarters. Looking Forward Global Financings financial position provides flexibility and funding capacity which enables the company to be well positioned in the current environment. Global Financings assets and new financing volumes are IBM and OEM products and services financed to the companys clients and business partners, and substantially all financing assets are IT related assets which provide a stable base of business for future growth. Global Financings offerings are competitive and available to clients as a result of the companys borrowing cost and access to the capital markets. Overall, Global Financings originations will be dependent upon the demand for IT products and services as well as client participation rates. IBM continues to access both the short-term commercial paper market and the medium- and long-term debt markets. A protracted period where IBM could not access the capital markets would likely lead to a slowdown in originations. Interest rates and the overall economy (including currency fluctuations) will have an effect on both revenue and gross profit. The companys interest rate risk management policy, however, combined with the Global Financing pricing strategy should mitigate gross margin erosion due to changes in interest rates. The economy could impact the credit quality of the Global Financing receivables portfolio and therefore the level of provision for credit losses. Global Financing will continue to apply rigorous credit policies in both the origination of new business and the evaluation of the existing portfolio. Global Financing has historically been able to manage residual value risk both through insight into the companys product cycles, as well as through its remarketing business. Global Financing has policies in place to manage each of the key risks involved in financing. These policies, combined with product and client knowledge, should allow for the prudent management of the business going forward, even during periods of uncertainty with respect to the global economy. 73 Report of Management International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Management Responsibility for Financial Information Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the financial information presented in this Annual Report rests with IBM management. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, applying certain estimates and judgments as required. IBM maintains an effective internal control structure. It consists, in part, of organizational arrangements with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority, and comprehensive systems and control procedures. An important element of the control environment is an ongoing internal audit program. Our system also contains self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies as they are identified. To assure the effective administration of internal controls, we carefully select and train our employees, develop and disseminate written policies and procedures, provide appropriate communication channels and foster an environment conducive to the effective functioning of controls. We believe that it is essential for the company to conduct its business affairs in accordance with the highest ethical standards, as set forth in the IBM Business Conduct Guidelines. These guidelines, translated into numerous languages, are distributed to employees throughout the world, and reemphasized through internal programs to assure that they are understood and followed. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed solely of independent, non-management directors, and is responsible for recommending to the Board the independent registered public accounting firm to be retained for the coming year, subject to stockholder ratification. The Audit Committee meets periodically and privately with the independent registered public accounting firm, with the companys internal auditors, as well as with IBM management, to review accounting, auditing, internal control structure and financial reporting matters. Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting of the company. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the companys internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2015. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, is retained to audit IBMs Consolidated Financial Statements and the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. Its accompanying report is based on audits conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). /s/ Virginia M. Rometty Virginia M. Rometty Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer February 23, 2016 /s/ Martin J. Schroeter Martin J. Schroeter Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer February 23, 2016 74 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of International Business Machines Corporation: In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on pages 76 through 146 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of International Business Machines Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2015 and 2014 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Companys management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing on page 74. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conductced our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material mis-statement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP New York, New York February 23, 2016 75 Consolidated Statement of Earnings International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions except per share amounts) For the year ended December 31: Notes 2015 2014 2013 Revenue Services $ 49,911 $ 55,673 $ 57,655 Sales 29,967 35,063 38,666 Financing 1,864 2,057 2,047 Total revenue T 81,741 92,793 98,367 Cost Services 33,126 36,034 37,564 Sales 6,920 9,312 11,009 Financing 1,011 1,040 1,110 Total cost 41,057 46,386 49,683 Gross profit 40,684 46,407 48,684 Expense and other (income) Selling, general and administrative 20,430 23,180 23,451 Research, development and engineering O 5,247 5,437 5,743 Intellectual property and custom development income (682 ) (742 ) (822 ) Other (income) and expense (724 ) (1,938 ) (333 ) Interest expense D&J 468 484 402 Total expense and other (income) 24,740 26,421 28,440 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 15,945 19,986 20,244 Provision for income taxes N 2,581 4,234 3,363 Income from continuing operations 13,364 15,751 16,881 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax C (174 ) (3,729 ) (398 ) Net income $ 13,190 $ 12,022 $ 16,483 Earnings/(loss) per share of common stock Assuming dilution Continuing operations P $ 13.60 $ 15.59 $ 15.30 Discontinued operations P (0.18 ) (3.69 ) (0.36 ) Total P $ 13.42 $ 11.90 $ 14.94 Basic Continuing operations P $ 13.66 $ 15.68 $ 15.42 Discontinued operations P (0.18 ) (3.71 ) (0.36 ) Total P $ 13.48 $ 11.97 $ 15.06 Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding Assuming dilution 982,700,267 1,010,000,480 1,103,042,156 Basic 978,744,523 1,004,272,584 1,094,486,604 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 82 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements. 76 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: Notes 2015 2014 2013 Net income $ 13,190 $ 12,022 $ 16,483 Other comprehensive income/(loss), before tax Foreign currency translation adjustments L (1,379 ) (1,636 ) (1,335 ) Net changes related to available-for-sale securities L Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period (54 ) (29 ) (4 ) Reclassification of (gains)/losses to net income 86 5 (8 ) Subsequent changes in previously impaired securities arising during the period 4 Total net changes related to available-for-sale securities 32 (24 ) (8 ) Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges L Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period 618 958 43 Reclassification of (gains)/losses to net income (1,072 ) (97 ) (166 ) Total unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges (454 ) 861 (123 ) Retirement-related benefit plans L Prior service costs/(credits) 6 1 16 Net (losses)/gains arising during the period (2,963 ) (9,799 ) 5,369 Curtailments and settlements 33 24 (3 ) Amortization of prior service (credits)/costs (100 ) (114 ) (114 ) Amortization of net (gains)/losses 3,304 2,531 3,499 Total retirement-related benefit plans 279 (7,357 ) 8,767 Other comprehensive income/(loss), before tax L (1,523 ) (8,156 ) 7,301 Income tax (expense)/benefit related to items of other comprehensive income L (208 ) 1,883 (3,144 ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) L (1,731 ) (6,274 ) 4,157 Total comprehensive income $ 11,459 $ 5,748 $ 20,641 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 82 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements. 77 Consolidated Statement of F inancial Position International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions except per share amounts) At December 31: Notes 2015 2014 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 7,686 $ 8,476 Marketable securities D 508 0 Notes and accounts receivabletrade (net of allowances of $367 in 2015 and $336 in 2014) 8,333 9,090 Short-term financing receivables (net of allowances of $490 in 2015 and $452 in 2014) F 19,020 19,835 Other accounts receivable (net of allowances of $51 in 2015 and $40 in 2014) 1,201 2,906 Inventories E 1,551 2,103 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 4,205 4,967 Total current assets 42,504 47,377 * Property, plant and equipment G 29,342 39,034 Less: Accumulated depreciation G 18,615 28,263 Property, plant and equipmentnet G 10,727 10,771 Long-term financing receivables (net of allowances of $118 in 2015 and $126 in 2014) F 10,013 11,109 Prepaid pension assets S 1,734 2,160 Deferred taxes N 4,822 6,675 * Goodwill I 32,021 30,556 Intangible assetsnet I 3,487 3,104 Investments and sundry assets H 5,187 5,520 ** Total assets $ 110,495 $ 117,271 * ** Liabilities and equity Current liabilities Taxes N $ 2,847 $ 5,084 Short-term debt D&J 6,461 5,731 ** Accounts payable 6,028 6,864 Compensation and benefits 3,560 4,031 Deferred income 11,021 11,877 Other accrued expenses and liabilities 4,353 5,994 * Total current liabilities 34,269 39,581 * ** Long-term debt D&J 33,428 34,991 ** Retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations S 16,504 18,261 Deferred income 3,771 3,691 Other liabilities K 8,099 8,733 * Total liabilities 96,071 105,257 * ** Contingencies and commitments M Equity L IBM stockholders equity Common stock, par value $.20 per share, and additional paid-in capital 53,262 52,666 Shares authorized: 4,687,500,000 Shares issued (20152,221,223,449; 20142,215,209,574) Retained earnings 146,124 137,793 Treasury stock, at cost (shares: 20151,255,494,724; 20141,224,685,815) (155,518 ) (150,715 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (29,607 ) (27,875 ) Total IBM stockholders equity 14,262 11,868 Noncontrolling interests A 162 146 Total equity 14,424 12,014 Total liabilities and equity $ 110,495 $ 117,271 * ** Amounts may not add due to rounding. * Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on deferred taxes in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. ** Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on debt issuance costs in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. The accompanying notes on pages 82 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements. 78 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 Cash flows from operating activities Net income $ 13,190 $ 12,022 $ 16,483 Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities Depreciation 2,662 3,145 3,327 Amortization of intangibles 1,193 1,347 1,351 Stock-based compensation 468 512 614 Deferred taxes 1,387 (237 ) (1,610 ) Net (gain)/loss on asset sales and other 481 (1,535 ) (236 ) Loss on microelectronics business disposal 71 3,381 Change in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions/divestitures Receivables (including financing receivables) 812 1,270 (1,407 ) Retirement related (22 ) (655 ) 294 Inventories 133 (39 ) (57 ) Other assets/other liabilities (3,448 ) (1,886 ) (747 ) Accounts payable 81 (456 ) (529 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 17,008 16,868 17,485 Cash flows from investing activities Payments for property, plant and equipment (3,579 ) (3,740 ) (3,623 ) Proceeds from disposition of property, plant and equipment 370 404 372 Investment in software (572 ) (443 ) (517 ) Purchases of marketable securities and other investments (3,073 ) (2,338 ) (4,608 ) Proceeds from disposition of marketable securities and other investments 2,842 2,493 4,873 Non-operating finance receivablesnet (398 ) (1,078 ) (1,063 ) Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (3,349 ) (656 ) (3,056 ) Divestiture of businesses, net of cash transferred (401 ) 2,357 297 Net cash used in investing activities (8,159 ) (3,001 ) (7,326 ) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from new debt 5,540 8,180 16,353 Payments to settle debt (5,622 ) (4,644 ) (10,013 ) Short-term borrowings/(repayments) less than 90 daysnet 101 (1,753 ) 621 Common stock repurchases (4,609 ) (13,679 ) (13,859 ) Common stock transactionsother 322 709 1,074 Cash dividends paid (4,897 ) (4,265 ) (4,058 ) Net cash used in financing activities (9,166 ) (15,452 ) (9,883 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (473 ) (655 ) 28 Net change in cash and cash equivalents (790 ) (2,240 ) 304 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 8,476 10,716 10,412 Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 $ 7,686 $ 8,476 $ 10,716 Supplemental data Income taxes paidnet of refunds received $ 2,657 $ 5,748 $ 4,024 Interest paid on debt $ 995 $ 1,061 $ 982 Capital lease obligations $ 4 $ 2 $ 14 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 82 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements. 79 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) Common Accumulated Stock and Other Total IBM Non- Additional Retained Treasury Comprehensive Stockholders Controlling Total Paid-In Capital Earnings Stock Income/(Loss) Equity Interests Equity 2013 Equity, January 1, 2013 $ 50,110 $ 117,641 $ (123,131 ) $ (25,759 ) $ 18,860 $ 124 $ 18,984 Net income plus other comprehensive income/(loss) Net income 16,483 16,483 16,483 Other comprehensive income/(loss) 4,157 4,157 4,157 Total comprehensive income/(loss) $ 20,641 $ 20,641 Cash dividends paidcommon stock (4,058 ) (4,058 ) (4,058 ) Common stock issued under employee plans (9,961,389 shares) 1,216 1,216 1,216 Purchases (1,666,069 shares) and sales (1,849,883 shares) of treasury stock under employee plansnet (25 ) (117 ) (142 ) (142 ) Other treasury shares purchased, not retired (73,121,942 shares) (13,993 ) (13,993 ) (13,993 ) Changes in other equity 268 268 268 Changes in noncontrolling interests 13 13 Equity, December 31, 2013 $ 51,594 $ 130,042 $ (137,242 ) $ (21,602 ) $ 22,792 $ 137 $ 22,929 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 82 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements. ($ in millions) Common Accumulated Stock and Other Total IBM Non- Additional Retained Treasury Comprehensive Stockholders Controlling Total Paid-In Capital Earnings Stock Income/(Loss) Equity Interests Equity 2014 Equity, January 1, 2014 $ 51,594 $ 130,042 $ (137,242 ) $ (21,602 ) $ 22,792 $ 137 $ 22,929 Net income plus other comprehensive income/(loss) Net income 12,022 12,022 12,022 Other comprehensive income/(loss) (6,274 ) (6,274 ) (6,274 ) Total comprehensive income/(loss) $ 5,748 $ 5,748 Cash dividends paidcommon stock (4,265 ) (4,265 ) (4,265 ) Common stock issued under employee plans (7,687,026 shares) 977 977 977 Purchases (1,313,569 shares) and sales (1,264,232 shares) of treasury stock under employee plansnet (6 ) (79 ) (85 ) (85 ) Other treasury shares purchased, not retired (71,504,867 shares) (13,395 ) (13,395 ) (13,395 ) Changes in other equity 95 95 95 Changes in noncontrolling interests 8 8 Equity, December 31, 2014 $ 52,666 $ 137,793 $ (150,715 ) $ (27,875 ) $ 11,868 $ 146 $ 12,014 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 82 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements. 80 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) Common Accumulated Stock and Other Total IBM Non- Additional Retained Treasury Comprehensive Stockholders Controlling Total Paid-In Capital Earnings Stock Income/(Loss) Equity Interests Equity 2015 Equity, January 1, 2015 $ 52,666 $ 137,793 $ (150,715 ) $ (27,875 ) $ 11,868 $ 146 $ 12,014 Net income plus other comprehensive income/(loss) Net income 13,190 13,190 13,190 Other comprehensive income/(loss) (1,731 ) (1,731 ) (1,731 ) Total comprehensive income/(loss) $ 11,459 $ 11,459 Cash dividends paidcommon stock (4,897 ) (4,897 ) (4,897 ) Common stock issued under employee plans (6,013,875 shares) 606 606 606 Purchases (1,625,820 shares) and sales (1,155,558 shares) of treasury stock under employee plansnet 39 (102 ) (63 ) (63 ) Other treasury shares purchased, not retired (30,338,647 shares) (4,701 ) (4,701 ) (4,701 ) Changes in other equity (10 ) (10 ) (10 ) Changes in noncontrolling interests 16 16 Equity, December 31, 2015 $ 53,262 $ 146,124 $ (155,518 ) $ (29,607 ) $ 14,262 $ 162 $ 14,424 Amounts may not add due to rounding. The accompanying notes on pages 82 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements. 81 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies NOTE A. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes of the International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Within the financial statements and tables presented, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes. Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. This is annotated where applicable. On October 20, 2014, the company announced a definitive agreement to divest its Microelectronics business and manufacturing operations to GLOBALFOUNDRIES. The assets and liabilities of the Microelectronics business were reported as held for sale at December 31, 2014 and the operating results of the Microelectronics business have been reported as discontinued operations. The transaction closed on July 1, 2015. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to this presentation to allow for a meaningful comparison of continuing operations. Refer to note C, Acquisitions/Divestitures, for additional information on the transaction. In addition, in 2015, the company renamed its Systems & Technology segment to Systems Hardware and its System z brand to z Systems. Noncontrolling interest amounts of $8 million, $6 million and $7 million, net of tax, for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, are included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings within the other (income) and expense line item. Principles of Consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of IBM and its controlled subsidiaries, which are primarily majority owned. Any noncontrolling interest in the equity of a subsidiary is reported in Equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Net income and losses attributable to the noncontrolling interest is reported as described above in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The accounts of variable interest entities (VIEs) are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, if required. Investments in business entities in which the company does not have control, but has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies, are accounted for using the equity method and the companys proportionate share of income or loss is recorded in other (income) and expense. The accounting policy for other investments in equity securities is on page 90 within Marketable Securities. Equity investments in non-publicly traded entities are primarily accounted for using the cost method. All intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, expenses and other comprehensive income/(loss) (OCI) that are reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. These estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events, historical experience, actions that the company may undertake in the future and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. As a result, actual results may be different from these estimates. See Critical Accounting Estimates on pages 64 to 67 for a discussion of the companys critical accounting estimates. Revenue The company recognizes revenue when it is realized or realizable and earned. The company considers revenue realized or realizable and earned when it has persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery does not occur until products have been shipped or services have been provided to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the client, and either client acceptance has been obtained, client acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the company has objective evidence that the criteria specified in the client acceptance provisions have been satisfied. The sales price is not considered to be fixed or determinable until all contingencies related to the sale have been resolved. The company recognizes revenue on sales to solution providers, resellers and distributors (herein referred to as resellers) when the reseller has: economic substance apart from the company, credit risk, title and risk of loss to the inventory; and, the fee to the company is not contingent upon resale or payment by the end user, the company has no further obligations related to bringing about resale or delivery and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. The company reduces revenue for estimated client returns, stock rotation, price protection, rebates and other similar allowances. (See Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves included in the companys Annual Report on Form 10-K). Revenue is recognized only if these estimates can be reasonably and reliably determined. The company bases its estimates on historical results taking into consideration the type of client, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. Payments made under cooperative marketing programs are recognized as an expense only if the company receives from the client an identifiable benefit sufficiently separable from the product sale whose fair value can be reasonably and reliably estimated. If the company does not receive an identifiable benefit sufficiently separable from the product sale whose fair value can be reasonably estimated, such payments are recorded as a reduction of revenue. Revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is a principal to the transaction. Several factors are considered 82 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies to determine whether the company is an agent or principal, most notably whether the company is the primary obligor to the client, or has inventory risk. Consideration is also given to whether the company adds meaningful value to the vendors product or service, was involved in the selection of the vendors product or service, has latitude in establishing the sales price or has credit risk. The company reports revenue net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions. In addition to the aforementioned general policies, the following are the specific revenue recognition policies for multiple-deliverable arrangements and for each major category of revenue. Multiple-Deliverable Arrangements The company enters into revenue arrangements that may consist of multiple deliverables of its products and services based on the needs of its clients. These arrangements may include any combination of services, software, hardware and/or financing. For example, a client may purchase a server that includes operating system software. In addition, the arrangement may include post-contract support for the software and a contract for post-warranty maintenance service for the hardware. These types of arrangements can also include financing provided by the company. These arrangements consist of multiple deliverables, with the hardware and software delivered in one reporting period and the software support and hardware maintenance services delivered across multiple reporting periods. In another example, a client may outsource the running of its datacenter operations to the company on a long-term, multiple-year basis and periodically purchase servers and/or software products from the company to upgrade or expand its facility. The outsourcing services are provided on a continuous basis across multiple reporting periods and the hardware and software products are delivered in one reporting period. To the extent that a deliverable in a multiple-deliverable arrangement is subject to specific accounting guidance that deliverable is accounted for in accordance with such specific guidance. Examples of such arrangements may include leased hardware which is subject to specific leasing guidance or software which is subject to specific software revenue recognition guidance on whether and/or how to separate multiple-deliverable arrangements into separate units of accounting (separability) and how to allocate the arrangement consideration among those separate units of accounting (allocation). For all other deliverables in multiple-deliverable arrangements, the guidance below is applied for separability and allocation. A multiple-deliverable arrangement is separated into more than one unit of accounting if the following criteria are met: The delivered item(s) has value to the client on a stand-alone basis; and If the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in the control of the company. If these criteria are not met, the arrangement is accounted for as one unit of accounting which would result in revenue being recognized ratably over the contract term or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria are met or when the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria are met for each element and there is a relative selling price for all units of accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate units of accounting based on each units relative selling price. The following revenue policies are then applied to each unit of accounting, as applicable. Revenue from the companys cloud, analytics, mobile, security, and cognitive offerings follow the specific revenue recognition policies for multiple deliverable arrangements and for each major category of revenue depending on the type of offering which can be comprised of services, hardware and/or software. Services The companys primary services offerings include information technology (IT) datacenter and business process outsourcing, application management services, consulting and systems integration, technology infrastructure and system maintenance, hosting and the design and development of complex IT systems to a clients specifications (design and build). Many of these services can be delivered entirely or partially through the cloud. These services are provided on a time-and-material basis, as a fixed-price contract or as a fixed-price per measure of output contract and the contract terms range from less than one year to over 10 years. Revenue from IT datacenter and business process outsourcing contracts is recognized in the period the services are provided using either an objective measure of output or on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Under the output method, the amount of revenue recognized is based on the services delivered in the period. Revenue from application management services, technology infrastructure and system maintenance and hosting contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the contracts. Revenue from time-and-material contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered and direct expenses are incurred. Revenue related to extended warranty and product maintenance contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period. Revenue from fixed-price design and build contracts is recognized under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method. Under the POC method, revenue is recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs, and such revisions are reflected in income in the period in which the circumstances that gave rise to the revision become known by the company. 83 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its services contracts accounted for under the POC method in order to determine whether the latest estimates of revenues, costs and profits require updating. If at any time these estimates indicate that the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately. For non-POC method services contracts, any losses are recorded as incurred. In some services contracts, the company bills the client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the services. Deferred income of $6,039 million and $6,352 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, is included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In other services contracts, the company performs the services prior to billing the client. Unbilled accounts receivable of $1,630 million and $1,833 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, is included in notes and accounts receivable-trade in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Billings usually occur in the month after the company performs the services or in accordance with specific contractual provisions. Unbilled receivables are expected to be billed within four months. Hardware The companys hardware offerings include the sale or lease of system servers, storage solutions and the sale of semiconductors. The company also offers installation services for its more complex hardware products. Revenue from hardware sales and sales-type leases is recognized when risk of loss has transferred to the client and there are no unfulfilled company obligations that affect the clients final acceptance of the arrangement. Any cost of standard warranties and remaining obligations that are inconsequential or perfunctory are accrued when the corresponding revenue is recognized. Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the rental or lease. Software Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the inception of the license term if all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Revenue from term (recurring license charge) license software is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period that the client is entitled to use the license. Revenue from post-contract support, which may include unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if-available basis, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period such items are delivered. Revenue from software hosting or Software-as-a-Service arrangements is recognized as the service is delivered, generally on a straight-line basis, over the longer of the term of the arrangement or the expected period of the customer relationship. In software hosting arrangements, the rights provided to the customer (e.g., ownership of a license, contract termination provisions and the feasibility of the customer to operate the software) are considered in determining whether the arrangement includes a license. In arrangements which include a software license, the associated revenue is recognized according to whether the license is perpetual or term, subject to the guidance above. In multiple-deliverable arrangements that include software that is more than incidental to the products or services as a whole (software multiple-deliverable arrangements), software and software-related elements are accounted for in accordance with software revenue recognition guidance. Software-related elements include software products and services for which a software deliverable is essential to its functionality. Tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the tangible products essential functionality are not within the scope of software revenue recognition guidance and are accounted for based on other applicable revenue recognition guidance. A software multiple-deliverable arrangement is separated into more than one unit of accounting if all of the following criteria are met: The functionality of the delivered element(s) is not dependent on the undelivered element(s); There is vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value of the undelivered element(s). VSOE of fair value is based on the price charged when the deliverable is sold separately by the company on a regular basis and not as part of the multiple-deliverable arrangement; and Delivery of the delivered element(s) represents the culmination of the earnings process for that element(s). If any one of these criteria is not met, the arrangement is accounted for as one unit of accounting which would result in revenue being recognized ratably over the contract term or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria are met or when the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria are met for each element and there is VSOE of fair value for all units of accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate units of accounting based on each units relative VSOE of fair value. There may be cases, however, in which there is VSOE of fair value of the undelivered item(s) but no such evidence for the delivered item(s). In these cases, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated to the delivered item(s) equals the total arrangement consideration less the aggregate VSOE of fair value of the undelivered elements. The companys multiple-deliverable arrangements may have a stand-alone software deliverable that is subject to the existing software revenue recognition guidance. The revenue for these multiple-deliverable arrangements is allocated to the software deliverable and the non-software deliverables based on the relative selling prices of all of the deliverables in the arrangement using the hierarchy: VSOE, third-party evidence (TPE) or best estimate of selling price (BESP). In circumstances where the company cannot determine VSOE or TPE of the selling price for all of the deliverables in the arrangement, including the software deliverable, BESP is used for the purpose of performing this allocation. 84 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Financing Financing income attributable to sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans is recognized on the accrual basis using the effective interest method. Operating lease income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Best Estimate of Selling Price In certain instances, the company is not able to establish VSOE for all elements in a multiple-deliverable arrangement. When VSOE cannot be established, the company attempts to establish the selling price of each element based on TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. When the company is unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, the company uses BESP in its allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which the company would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. BESP may be used, for example, if a product is not sold on a stand-alone basis or when the company sells a new product, for which VSOE and TPE does not yet exist, in a multiple-deliverable arrangement prior to selling the new product on a stand-alone basis. The company determines BESP by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, overall market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, competitor actions, internal costs, profit objectives and pricing practices. The determination of BESP is a formal process that includes review and approval by the companys management. In addition, the company regularly reviews VSOE and TPE for its products and services, in addition to BESP. Services Costs Recurring operating costs for services contracts, including costs related to bid and proposal activities, are recognized as incurred. For fixed-price design and build contracts, the costs of external hardware and software accounted for under the POC method are deferred and recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date, as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. Certain eligible, nonrecurring costs incurred in the initial phases of outsourcing contracts are deferred and subsequently amortized. These costs consist of transition and setup costs related to the installation of systems and processes and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, not to exceed the term of the contract. Additionally, fixed assets associated with outsourcing contracts are capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the asset. If an asset is contract specific, then the depreciation period is the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the contract term. Amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis as a reduction of revenue over the expected period of benefit not to exceed the term of the contract. The company performs periodic reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs. This review is done by comparing the estimated minimum remaining undiscounted cash flows of a contract to the unamortized contract costs. If such minimum undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the unamortized costs, an impairment loss is recognized. Deferred services transition and setup costs were $2,144 million and $2,230 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Amortization of deferred services transition and setup costs was estimated at December 31, 2015 to be $653 million in 2016, $522 million in 2017, $366 million in 2018, $254 million in 2019 and $349 million thereafter. Deferred amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements were $184 million and $64 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Amortization of deferred amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets is recorded as an offset of revenue and was estimated at December 31, 2015 to be $53 million in 2016, $41 million in 2017, $39 million in 2018, $21 million in 2019 and $30 million thereafter. In situations in which an outsourcing contract is terminated, the terms of the contract may require the client to reimburse the company for the recovery of unbilled accounts receivable, unamortized deferred costs incurred to purchase specific assets utilized in the delivery of services and to pay any additional costs incurred by the company to transition the services. Software Costs Costs that are related to the conceptual formulation and design of licensed software programs are expensed as incurred to research, development and engineering expense; costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological feasibility has been established are capitalized as an intangible asset. Capitalized amounts are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to three years and are recorded in software cost within cost of sales. The company performs periodic reviews to ensure that unamortized program costs remain recoverable from future revenue. Costs to support or service licensed programs are charged to software cost within cost of sales as incurred. The company capitalizes certain costs that are incurred to purchase or to create and implement internal-use software programs, including software coding, installation, testing and certain data conversions. These capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to two years and are recorded in selling, general and administrative expense. Product Warranties The company offers warranties for its hardware products that generally range up to three years, with the majority being either one or three years. Estimated costs for warranty terms standard to the deliverable are recognized when revenue is recorded for the related deliverable. The company estimates its warranty costs standard to the deliverable based on historical warranty claim experience and estimates of future spending, and applies this estimate to the revenue stream for products under warranty. Estimated future costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the current period are charged to cost of sales. The warranty 85 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies liability is reviewed quarterly to verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on the anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period. Adjustments are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from estimates. Costs from fixed-price support or maintenance contracts, including extended warranty contracts, are recognized as incurred. Revenue from extended warranty contracts is initially recorded as deferred income and subsequently recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period. Changes in deferred income for extended warranty contracts, and in the warranty liability for standard warranties, which are included in other accrued expenses and liabilities and other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, are presented in the following tables: Standard Warranty Liability ($ in millions) 2015 2014 Balance at January 1 $ 197 $ 376 Current period accruals 173 240 Accrual adjustments to reflect experience* 7 (120 ) Charges incurred (196 ) (298 ) Balance at December 31 $ 181 $ 197 * Includes an adjustment of $(125 million) in 2014 related to the System x business divestiture. Extended Warranty Liability (Deferred Income) ($ in millions) 2015 2014 Balance at January 1 $ 536 $ 579 Revenue deferred for new extended warranty contracts 286 298 Amortization of deferred revenue* (253 ) (316 ) Other** (31 ) (24 ) Balance at December 31 $ 538 $ 536 Current portion $ 238 $ 254 Noncurrent portion $ 300 $ 282 * Includes an adjustment of $(21 million) in 2014 related to the System x business divestiture. ** Other consists primarily of foreign currency translation adjustments. Shipping and Handling Costs related to shipping and handling are recognized as incurred and included in cost in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Expense and Other Income Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense is charged to income as incurred. Expenses of promoting and selling products and services are classified as selling expense and include such items as compensation, advertising, sales commissions and travel. General and administrative expense includes such items as compensation, legal costs, office supplies, non-income taxes, insurance and office rental. In addition, general and administrative expense includes other operating items such as an allowance for credit losses, workforce rebalancing charges for contractually obligated payments to employees terminated in the ongoing course of business, acquisition costs related to business combinations, amortization of certain intangible assets and environmental remediation costs. Advertising and Promotional Expense The company expenses advertising and promotional costs as incurred. Cooperative advertising reimbursements from vendors are recorded net of advertising and promotional expense in the period in which the related advertising and promotional expense is incurred. Advertising and promotional expense, which includes media, agency and promotional expense, was $1,290 million, $1,307 million and $1,294 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and is recorded in SG&A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Research, Development and Engineering Research, development and engineering (RD&E) costs are expensed as incurred. Software costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological feasibility has been established are capitalized as an intangible asset. Intellectual Property and Custom Development Income The company licenses and sells the rights to certain of its intellectual property (IP) including internally developed patents, trade secrets and technological know-how. Certain IP transactions to third parties are licensing/royalty-based and others are transaction-based sales and other transfers. Licensing/royalty-based fees involve transfers in which the company earns the income over time, or the amount of income is not fixed or determinable until the licensee sells future related products (i.e., variable royalty, based upon licensees revenue). Sales and other transfers typically include transfers of IP whereby the company has fulfilled its obligations and the fee received is fixed or determinable at the transfer date. The company also enters into cross-licensing arrangements of patents, and income from these arrangements is recorded when earned. In addition, the company earns income from certain custom development projects for strategic technology partners and specific clients. The company records the income from these projects when the fee is realized and earned, is not refundable and is not dependent upon the success of the project. Other (Income) and Expense Other (income) and expense includes interest income (other than from Global Financing external transactions), gains and losses on certain derivative instruments, gains and losses from securities and other investments, gains and losses from certain real estate transactions, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, gains and losses from the sale of businesses, other than reported as discontinued operations, and amounts related to accretion of asset retirement obligations. 86 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Business Combinations and Intangible Assets Including Goodwill The company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree are recorded at their acquisition date fair values. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets, including the amount assigned to identifiable intangible assets. The primary drivers that generate goodwill are the value of synergies between the acquired entities and the company and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualifies as a separately identifiable intangible asset. Goodwill recorded in an acquisition is assigned to applicable reporting units based on expected revenues. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives. Amortization of completed technology is recorded in Cost, and amortization of all other intangible assets is recorded in SG&A expense. Acquisition-related costs, including advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other costs, are expensed in the periods in which the costs are incurred. The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the acquisition date. Impairment Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The impairment test is based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, the asset is written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually, in the fourth quarter, for impairment and whenever changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level which is the operating segment, or a business, which is one level below that operating segment (the component level) if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at the segment level. Components are aggregated as a single reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics. Depreciation and Amortization Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives of certain depreciable assets are as follows: buildings, 30 to 50 years; building equipment, 10 to 20 years; land improvements, 20 years; plant, laboratory and office equipment, 2 to 20 years; and computer equipment, 1.5 to 5 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the related lease term, rarely exceeding 25 years. Capitalized software costs incurred or acquired after technological feasibility has been established are amortized over periods ranging up to 3 years. Capitalized costs for internal-use software are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to 2 years. Other intangible assets are amortized over periods between 1 and 7 years. Environmental The cost of internal environmental protection programs that are preventative in nature are expensed as incurred. When a cleanup program becomes likely, and it is probable that the company will incur cleanup costs and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the company accrues remediation costs for known environmental liabilities. The companys maximum exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts are recorded for environmental liabilities that are not probable or estimable. Asset Retirement Obligations Asset retirement obligations (ARO) are legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets. These liabilities are initially recorded at fair value and the related asset retirement costs are capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related assets by the same amount as the liability. Asset retirement costs are subsequently depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets. Subsequent to initial recognition, the company records period-to-period changes in the ARO liability resulting from the passage of time in interest expense and revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original expected cash flows to the related assets. Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans The funded status of the companys defined benefit pension plans and nonpension postretirement benefit plans (retirement-related benefit plans) is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation at December 31, the measurement date. For defined benefit pension plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation (PBO), which represents the actuarial present value of benefits expected to be paid upon retirement based on employee services already rendered and estimated future compensation levels. For the nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO), which represents the actuarial present value of postretirement benefits attributed to employee services already rendered. The fair value of plan assets represents the current market value of assets held in an irrevocable trust fund, held for the sole benefit of participants, which are invested by the trust fund. Overfunded plans, with the fair value of plan assets exceeding the benefit obligation, are aggregated and recorded as a prepaid pension asset equal to this excess. Underfunded plans, with the benefit obligation exceeding the fair value of plan assets, are aggregated and recorded as a retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligation equal to this excess. The current portion of the retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations represents the actuarial present value of benefits payable in the next 12 months exceeding the fair value of plan assets, measured on a plan-by-plan basis. This obligation is recorded in compensation and benefits in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 87 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Net periodic pension and nonpension postretirement benefit cost/(income) is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and includes service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service costs/(credits) and (gains)/losses previously recognized as a component of OCI and amortization of the net transition asset remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (AOCI). Service cost represents the actuarial present value of participant benefits earned in the current year. Interest cost represents the time value of money cost associated with the passage of time. Certain events, such as changes in the employee base, plan amendments and changes in actuarial assumptions, result in a change in the benefit obligation and the corresponding change in OCI. The result of these events is amortized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) over the service lives or life expectancy of the participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets. Net periodic cost/(income) is recorded in Cost, SG&A and RD&E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees respective functions. (Gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) not recognized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings as they arise are recognized as a component of OCI in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Those (gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) are subsequently recognized as a component of net periodic cost/ (income) pursuant to the recognition and amortization provisions of applicable accounting guidance. (Gains)/losses arise as a result of differences between actual experience and assumptions or as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions. Prior service costs/ (credits) represent the cost of benefit changes attributable to prior service granted in plan amendments. The measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic cost/ (income) is based on estimates and assumptions approved by the companys management. These valuations reflect the terms of the plans and use participant-specific information such as compensation, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, including estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates. Defined Contribution Plans The companys contribution for defined contribution plans is recorded when the employee renders service to the company. The charge is recorded in Cost, SG&A and RD&E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees respective functions. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation represents the cost related to stock-based awards granted to employees. The company measures stock-based compensation cost at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award and recognizes the cost on a straight-line basis (net of estimated forfeitures) over the employee requisite service period. The company grants its employees Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), including Retention Restricted Stock Units (RRSUs) and Performance Share Units (PSUs). RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests, typically over a one- to five-year period. The fair value of the awards is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the companys stock price, adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents. The company estimates the fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes valuation model. Stock-based compensation cost is recorded in Cost, SG&A, and RD&E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees respective functions. The company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in deductions on the companys income tax returns, based on the amount of compensation cost recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a deduction. Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the income tax return are recorded in additional paid-in capital (if the tax deduction exceeds the deferred tax asset) or in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings (if the deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction and no additional paid-in capital exists from previous awards). Income Taxes Income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between asset and liability amounts that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. These deferred taxes are measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. When the company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the valuation allowance is adjusted with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. The company recognizes tax liabilities when, despite the companys belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. Benefits from tax positions are measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The current portion of tax liabilities is included in taxes and the noncurrent portion of tax liabilities is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. To the extent that new information becomes available which causes the company to change its judgment regarding the adequacy of existing tax liabilities, such changes to tax liabilities will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. Interest and penalties, if any, related to accrued liabilities for potential tax assessments are included in income tax expense. 88 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Translation of Non-U.S. Currency Amounts Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that have a local functional currency are translated to United States (U.S.) dollars at year-end exchange rates. Translation adjustments are recorded in OCI. Income and expense items are translated at weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Inventories, property, plant and equipmentnet and other non-monetary assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars are translated at the approximate exchange rates prevailing when the company acquired the assets or liabilities. All other assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars are translated at year-end exchange rates with the transaction gain or loss recognized in other (income) and expense. Income and expense items are translated at the weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. These translation gains and losses are included in net income for the period in which exchange rates change. Derivative Financial Instruments Derivatives are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at fair value and are reported in prepaid expenses and other current assets, investments and sundry assets, other accrued expenses and liabilities or other liabilities. Classification of each derivative as current or noncurrent is based upon whether the maturity of the instrument is less than or greater than 12 months. To qualify for hedge accounting, the company requires that the instruments be effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designated to hedge. For instruments that hedge cash flows, hedge designation criteria also require that it be probable that the underlying transaction will occur. Instruments that meet established accounting criteria are formally designated as hedges. These criteria demonstrate that the derivative is expected to be highly effective at offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of the underlying exposure both at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. The method of assessing hedge effectiveness and measuring hedge ineffectiveness is formally documented at hedge inception. The company assesses hedge effectiveness and measures hedge ineffectiveness at least quarterly throughout the designated hedge period. Where the company applies hedge accounting, the company designates each derivative as a hedge of: (1) the fair value of a recognized financial asset or liability, or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge attributable to interest rate or foreign currency risk); (2) the variability of anticipated cash flows of a forecasted transaction, or the cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized financial asset or liability (cash flow hedge attributable to interest rate or foreign currency risk); or (3) a hedge of a long-term investment (net investment hedge) in a foreign operation. In addition, the company may enter into derivative contracts that economically hedge certain of its risks, even though hedge accounting does not apply or the company elects not to apply hedge accounting. In these cases, there exists a natural hedging relationship in which changes in the fair value of the derivative, which are recognized currently in net income, act as an economic offset to changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item(s). Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge, along with offsetting changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged exposure, are recorded in earnings each period. For hedges of interest rate risk, the fair value adjustments are recorded as adjustments to interest expense and cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For hedges of currency risk associated with recorded financial assets or liabilities, derivative fair value adjustments are recognized in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge are recorded, net of applicable taxes, in OCI, in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. When net income is affected by the variability of the underlying cash flow, the applicable offsetting amount of the gain or loss from the derivative that is deferred in AOCI is released to net income and reported in interest expense, Cost, SG&A expense or other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the nature of the underlying cash flow hedged. Effectiveness for net investment hedging derivatives is measured on a spot-to-spot basis. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of net investment hedging derivatives and other non-derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in OCI. Changes in the fair value of the portion of a net investment hedging derivative excluded from the effectiveness assessment are recorded in interest expense. If the underlying hedged item in a fair value hedge ceases to exist, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are included in net income each period until the instrument matures. When the derivative transaction ceases to exist, a hedged asset or liability is no longer adjusted for changes in its fair value except as required under other relevant accounting standards. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges, as well as changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not effectively offset changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item throughout the designated hedge period (collectively, ineffectiveness), are recorded in net income for each period and are primarily reported in other (income) and expense. When a cash flow hedging relationship is discontinued, the net gain or loss in AOCI must generally remain in AOCI until the item that was hedged affects earnings. However, when it is probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period thereafter, the net gain or loss in AOCI must be reclassified into earnings immediately. The company reports cash flows arising from derivative financial instruments designated as fair value or cash flow hedges consistent with the classification of cash flows from the underlying hedged items that these derivatives are hedging. Accordingly, the cash flows associated with derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges are classified in cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Cash flows from derivatives designated as net investment hedges and derivatives that do not qualify as hedges are reported in cash flows from investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. For currency swaps designated as hedges of foreign 89 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies currency denominated debt (included in the companys debt risk management program as addressed in note D, Financial Instruments, on pages 101 through 105), cash flows directly associated with the settlement of the principal element of these swaps are reported in payments to settle debt in cash flows from financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Financial Instruments In determining the fair value of its financial instruments, the company uses a variety of methods and assumptions that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each balance sheet date. See note D, Financial Instruments, on pages 100 to 101 for further information. All methods of assessing fair value result in a general approximation of value, and such value may never actually be realized. Fair Value Measurement Accounting guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Under this guidance, the company is required to classify certain assets and liabilities based on the following fair value hierarchy: Level 1Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that can be accessed at the measurement date; Level 2Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and Level 3Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. The guidance requires the use of observable market data if such data is available without undue cost and effort. When available, the company uses unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets to measure the fair value and classifies such items within Level 1. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that use current market-based or independently sourced market parameters such as interest rates and currency rates. Items valued using internally generated models are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation. The determination of fair value considers various factors including interest rate yield curves and time value underlying the financial instruments. For derivatives and debt securities, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis using discount rates commensurate with the duration of the instrument. In determining the fair value of financial instruments, the company considers certain market valuation adjustments to the base valuations calculated using the methodologies described below for several parameters that market participants would consider in determining fair value: Counterparty credit risk adjustments are applied to financial instruments, taking into account the actual credit risk of a counterparty as observed in the credit default swap market to determine the true fair value of such an instrument. Credit risk adjustments are applied to reflect the companys own credit risk when valuing all liabilities measured at fair value. The methodology is consistent with that applied in developing counterparty credit risk adjustments, but incorporates the companys own credit risk as observed in the credit default swap market. As an example, the fair value of derivatives is derived utilizing a discounted cash flow model that uses observable market inputs such as known notional value amounts, yield curves, spot and forward exchange rates as well as discount rates. These inputs relate to liquid, heavily traded currencies with active markets which are available for the full term of the derivative. Certain financial assets are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets include equity method investments that are recognized at fair value at the measurement date to the extent that they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Certain assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis can be subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements. These assets include available-for-sale equity investments that are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. In the event of an other-than-temporary impairment of a financial instrument, fair value is measured using a model described above. Accounting guidance permits the measurement of eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards. This election is irrevocable. The company has not applied the fair value option to any eligible assets or liabilities. Cash Equivalents All highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents. Marketable Securities Debt securities included in current assets represent securities that are expected to be realized in cash within one year of the balance sheet date. Long-term debt securities that are not expected to be realized in cash within one year and alliance equity securities are included in investments and sundry assets. Debt and marketable equity securities are considered available for sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable taxes, in OCI. The realized gains and losses for available-for-sale securities are included in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Realized gains and losses are calculated based on the specific identification method. In determining whether an other-than-temporary decline in market value has occurred, the company considers the duration that, and extent to which, the fair value of the investment is below its cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; and the companys intent and ability to retain the security in order to allow for an anticipated recovery in fair value. Other-than-temporary declines in fair value from amortized cost for available-for-sale equity and debt 90 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies securities that the company intends to sell or would more likely than not be required to sell before the expected recovery of the amortized cost basis are charged to other (income) and expense in the period in which the loss occurs. For debt securities that the company has no intent to sell and believes that it more likely than not will not be required to sell prior to recovery, only the credit loss component of the impairment is recognized in other (income) and expense, while the remaining loss is recognized in OCI. The credit loss component recognized in other (income) and expense is identified as the amount of the principal cash flows not expected to be received over the remaining term of the debt security as projected using the companys cash flow projections. Inventories Raw materials, work in process and finished goods are stated at the lower of average cost or market. Cash flows related to the sale of inventories are reflected in net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Allowance for Credit Losses Receivables are recorded concurrent with billing and shipment of a product and/or delivery of a service to customers. A reasonable estimate of probable net losses on the value of customer receivables is recognized by establishing an allowance for credit losses. Notes and Accounts ReceivableTrade An allowance for uncollectible trade receivables is estimated based on a combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known troubled accounts. Financing Receivables Financing receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans. Leases are accounted for in accordance with lease accounting standards. Loan receivables are financial assets recorded at amortized cost which approximates fair value. The company determines its allowances for credit losses on financing receivables based on two portfolio segments: lease receivables and loan receivables. The company further segments the portfolio into two classes: major markets and growth markets. When calculating the allowances, the company considers its ability to mitigate a potential loss by repossessing leased equipment and by considering the current fair market value of any other collateral. The value of the equipment is the net realizable value. The allowance for credit losses for capital leases, installment sales and customer loans includes an assessment of the entire balance of the capital lease or loan, including amounts not yet due. The methodologies that the company uses to calculate its receivables reserves, which are applied consistently to its different portfolios, are as follows: Individually EvaluatedThe company reviews all financing receivables considered at risk on a quarterly basis. The review primarily consists of an analysis based upon current information available about the client, such as financial statements, news reports, published credit ratings, current market-implied credit analysis, as well as the current economic environment, collateral net of repossession cost and prior collection history. For loans that are collateral dependent, impairment is measured using the fair value of the collateral when foreclosure is probable. Using this information, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve. Collectively EvaluatedThe company records an unallocated reserve that is calculated by applying a reserve rate to its different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been specifically reserved. This reserve rate is based upon credit rating, probability of default, term, characteristics (lease/loan) and loss history. Factors that could result in actual receivable losses that are materially different from the estimated reserve include sharp changes in the economy, or a significant change in the economic health of a particular client that represents a concentration in the companys receivables portfolio. Other Credit-Related Policies Non-AccrualCertain receivables for which the company has recorded a specific reserve may also be placed on non-accrual status. Non-accrual assets are those receivables (impaired loans or nonperforming leases) with specific reserves and other accounts for which it is likely that the company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to original terms of the lease or loan agreement. Income recognition is discontinued on these receivables. Cash collections are first applied as a reduction to principal outstanding. Any cash received in excess of principal payments outstanding is recognized as interest income. Receivables may be removed from non-accrual status, if appropriate, based upon changes in client circumstances. Write OffReceivable losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectibility of the receivable is confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. Past DueThe company views receivables as past due when payment has not been received after 90 days, measured from the original billing date. Impaired LoansAs stated above, the company evaluates all financing receivables considered at-risk, including loans, for impairment on a quarterly basis. The company considers any loan with an individually evaluated reserve as an impaired loan. Depending on the level of impairment, loans will also be placed on non-accrual status as appropriate. Client loans are primarily for software and services and are unsecured. These loans are subjected to credit analysis to evaluate the associated risk and, when deemed necessary, actions are taken to mitigate risks in the loan agreements which include covenants to protect against credit deterioration during the life of the obligation. 91 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Estimated Residual Values of Lease Assets The recorded residual values of lease assets are estimated at the inception of the lease to be the expected fair value of the assets at the end of the lease term. The company periodically reassesses the realizable value of its lease residual values. Any anticipated increases in specific future residual values are not recognized before realization through remarketing efforts. Anticipated decreases in specific future residual values that are considered to be other-than-temporary are recognized immediately upon identification and are recorded as an adjustment to the residual value estimate. For sales-type and direct-financing leases, this reduction lowers the recorded net investment and is recognized as a loss charged to financing income in the period in which the estimate is changed, as well as an adjustment to unearned income to reduce future-period financing income. Common Stock Common stock refers to the $.20 par value per share capital stock as designated in the companys Certificate of Incorporation. Treasury stock is accounted for using the cost method. When treasury stock is reissued, the value is computed and recorded using a weighted-average basis. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Earnings per share (EPS) is computed using the two-class method. The two-class method determines EPS for each class of common stock and participating securities according to dividends and dividend equivalents and their respective participation rights in undistributed earnings. Basic EPS of common stock is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS of common stock is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock awards, convertible notes and stock options. NOTE B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES New Standards to be Implemented In January 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. Certain equity investments will be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. The amendment also simplifies the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value. The guidance is effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption is not permitted except for limited provisions. The guidance is not expected to have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. In September 2015, the FASB issued guidance eliminating the requirement that an acquirer in a business combination account for a measurement-period adjustment retrospectively. Instead, an acquirer will recognize a measurement-period adjustment during the period in which the amount of the adjustment is determined. In addition, the portion of the amount recorded in current-period earnings by line item that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to the provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date should be presented separately on the face of the income statement or disclosed in the notes. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 on a prospective basis. The guidance is not expected to have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. In July 2015, the FASB issued guidance which requires all inventories, except those using the last-in, first-out or retail methods, to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable cost of completion, disposal, and transportation. The guidance is effective January 1, 2017 with early adoption permitted. The guidance is not expected to have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. In May 2015, the FASB issued guidance which removed the requirement to categorize within the fair value hierarchy all investments for which fair value is measured using the net asset value per share practical expedient. The amendments also removed the requirement to make certain disclosures for all investments that are eligible to be measured at fair value using the net asset value per share practical expedient. Rather, those disclosures are limited to investments for which the entity has elected to measure the fair value using that practical expedient. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016. The guidance was a change in disclosure only and will not have an impact in the consolidated financial results. In April 2015, the FASB issued guidance about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a services contract. All software licenses recognized under this guidance will be accounted for consistent with other licenses of intangible assets. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 and the company will adopt it on a prospective basis. The guidance is not expected to have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. 92 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers. Revenue recognition will depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance also requires disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The guidance permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (the cumulative catch-up transition method). The guidance was initially effective January 1, 2017 and early adoption was not permitted. In August 2015, the FASB issued guidance which provides for a one-year deferral of the effective date to January 1, 2018, with an option of applying the standard on the original effective date. The company will adopt the guidance on January 1, 2018 and apply the cumulative catch-up transition method. The company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the new guidance in the consolidated financial results. Standards Implemented In November 2015, the FASB issued guidance which requires deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in the statement of financial position. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance in the fourth quarter of 2015 on a retrospective basis. The company reclassified current deferred tax assets of $2.0 billion at December 31, 2014 to deferred tax assets and current deferred tax liabilities of $19 million at December 31, 2014 to other liabilities from other accrued expenses and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In order to offset deferred tax assets and liabilities for presentation as a single noncurrent amount by tax jurisdiction, the company also reclassified $178 million at December 31, 2014 from deferred tax assets to other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In April 2015, the FASB issued guidance which requires debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance in the fourth quarter of 2015 on a retrospective basis. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the company had $74 million and $83 million, respectively, in debt issuance costs. Debt issuance costs were previously included in investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In April 2014, the FASB issued guidance that changed the criteria for reporting a discontinued operation. Only disposals of a component that represents a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on an entitys operations and financial results is a discontinued operation. The guidance also requires expanded disclosures about discontinued operations and disposals of a significant part of an entity that does not qualify for discontinued operations reporting. The guidance was effective January 1, 2015. The impact to the company will be dependent on any transaction that is within the scope of the new guidance. There were no such transactions in 2015. In July 2013, the FASB issued guidance regarding the presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. Under certain circumstances, unrecognized tax benefits should be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward. The guidance was effective January 1, 2014. The guidance was a change in financial statement presentation only and did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. In March 2013, the FASB issued guidance on when foreign currency translation adjustments should be released to net income. When a parent entity ceases to have a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets that is a business within a foreign entity, the parent is required to release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income. Accordingly, the cumulative translation adjustment should be released into net income only if the sale or transfer results in the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity in which the subsidiary or group of assets had resided. The guidance was effective January 1, 2014 and did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. In February 2013, the FASB issued guidance for the recognition, measurement and disclosure of obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements for which the total amount of the obligation within the scope of the guidance is fixed at the reporting date. Examples include debt arrangements, other contractual obligations and settled litigation matters. The guidance requires an entity to measure such obligations as the sum of the amount that the reporting entity agreed to pay on the basis of its arrangement among its co-obligors plus additional amounts the reporting entity expects to pay on behalf of its co-obligors. The guidance was effective January 1, 2014 and did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. NOTE C. ACQUISITIONS/DIVESTITURES Acquisitions Purchase price consideration for all acquisitions, as reflected in the tables in this note, is paid primarily in cash. All acquisitions are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of acquired cash and cash equivalents. 2015 In 2015, the company completed fourteen acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $3,555 million. Merge Healthcare, Inc. (Merge)On October 13, 2015, the company completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Merge, a publicly held company, for cash consideration of $1,036 million. Merge is a leading provider of medical image handling and processing, interoperability and clinical systems designed to advance healthcare quality and efficiency. Merge joined the companys Watson Health business unit, bolstering clients ability to analyze and 93 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies cross-reference medical images against billions of data points already in the Watson Health Cloud. Goodwill of $695 million has been assigned to the Software segment. At the acquisition date, it was expected that none of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired is 7.0 years. Cleversafe, Inc. (Cleversafe)On November 6, 2015, the company completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Cleversafe, a privately held company, for cash consideration of $1,309 millon. Cleversafe is a leading developer and manufacturer of object-based storage software and appliances. Cleversafe will be integrated into the companys Cloud business to give clients strategic data flexibility, simplified management and consistency with on-premise, cloud and hybrid cloud deployment options. Goodwill of $1,000 million has been assigned to the Global Technology Services ($590 million) and Systems Hardware ($410 million) segments. At the acquisition date, it was expected that none of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired is 6.9 years. Other AcquisitionsThe Software segment completed acquisitions of eight privately held businesses: in the first quarter, AlchemyAPI, Inc. (AlchemyAPI) and Blekko, Inc. (Blekko); in the second quarter, Explorys, Inc. (Explorys) and Phytel, Inc. (Phytel); in the third quarter, Compose, Inc. (Compose) and StrongLoop, Inc. (StrongLoop); and in the fourth quarter, Clearleap, Inc. (Clearleap) and IRIS Analytics. Global Technology Services (GTS) completed acquisitions of two privately held businesses: in the second quarter, Blue Box Group, Inc. (Blue Box); and in the fourth quarter, Gravitant, Inc. (Gravitant). Global Business Services (GBS) completed acquisitions of two privately held businesses in the fourth quarter, Advanced Application Corporation (AAC) and Meteorix, LLC. (Meteorix). Each acquisition is expected to enhance the companys portfolio of product and services capabilities. AlchemyAPI is a leading provider of scalable cognitive computing application program interface services and computing applications. Blekko technology provides advanced Web-crawling, categorization and intelligent filtering. Explorys provides secure cloud-based solutions for clinical integration, at-risk population management, cost of care measurement and pay-for-performance. Phytel is a leading provider of SaaS-based population health management offerings that help providers identify patients at risk for care gaps and engage the patient to begin appropriate preventative care. Blue Box provides hosted, managed, OpenStack-based production-grade private clouds for the enterprise and service provider markets. Compose offers auto-scaling, production-ready databases to help software development teams deploy data services efficiently. StrongLoop is a leading provider of application development software that enables software developers to build applications using application programming interfaces. AAC engages in system integration application development, software support and services. AAC was an affiliate of JBCC Holdings Inc. and IBM Japan Ltd. The company acquired all the shares of AAC which became a wholly owned subsidiary as of October 1, 2015. Gravitant develops cloud-based software to enable organizations to easily plan, buy and manage, or broker, software and computing services from multiple suppliers across hybrid clouds. Meteorix offers consulting, deployment, integration and on-going post production services for Workday Financial Management and Human Capital Management applications. Clearleap is a provider of cloud-based video services. IRIS Analytics provides technology and consultancy services to the payments industry to detect electronic payment fraud. All acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired companies with the exception of the AAC acquisition. The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2015. 2015 Acquisitions ($ in millions) Amortization Other Life (in Years) Merge Cleversafe Acquisitions Current assets $ 94 $ 23 $ 60 Fixed assets/noncurrent assets 128 63 82 Intangible assets Goodwill N/A 695 1,000 895 Completed technology 57 133 364 163 Client relationships 57 145 23 95 Patents/trademarks 27 54 11 23 Total assets acquired 1,248 1,484 1,318 Current liabilities (73 ) (15 ) (34 ) Noncurrent liabilities (139 ) (160 ) (73 ) Total liabilities assumed (212 ) (175 ) (107 ) Total purchase price $ 1,036 $ 1,309 $ 1,210 N/ANot applicable 94 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The acquisitions were accounted for as business combinations using the acquisition method, and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired entity were recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The primary items that generated the goodwill are the value of the synergies between the acquired businesses and IBM and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualify as an amortizable intangible asset. For the Other Acquisitions, the overall weighted-average life of the identified intangible assets acquired is 6.4 years. These identified intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Goodwill of $717 million was assigned to the Software segment, $104 million was assigned to the GTS segment, and $74 million was assigned to the GBS segment. It is expected that 7 percent of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes. On December 17, 2015, the company announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement with AT&T to acquire their application and hosting services business. The acquisition is expected to strengthen IBMs outsourcing portfolio and will align with IBMs cloud strategy. On January 21, 2016, the company announced that it had acquired Ustream, Inc. (Ustream), a privately held company based in San Francisco, California. Ustream provides cloud-based video streaming to enterprises and broadcasters. On January 29, 2016, the company announced that it had acquired The Weather Companys B2B, mobile and cloud-based web-properties, weather.com, Weather Underground, The Weather Company brand and WSI, its global business-to-business brand for cash consideration of approximately $2 billion. The cable television segment was not acquired by IBM, but will license weather forecast data and analytics from IBM under a long-term contract. On February 2, 2016, the company announced its intent to acquire Aperto, a digital agency with headquarters in Berlin, Germany. Aperto will join the IBM Interactive Experience (IBM iX) team. IBM iX provides clients a unique fusion of services spanning strategy, analytics and systems integration for scalable digital, commerce, mobile and wearable platforms. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2016. On February 3, 2016, the company announced its intent to acquire ecx.io, a digital agency headquartered in Dusseldorf, Germany. The proposed acquisition of ecx.io will enhance IBM iX with new digital marketing, commerce and platform skills to accelerate clients digital transformations. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2016. On February 18, 2016, the company announced that it had acquired Resource/Ammirati, a leading U.S. based digital marketing and creative agency, addressing the rising demand from businesses seeking to reinvent themselves for the digital economy. On February 18, 2016, the company announced its intent to acquire Truven Health Analytics (Truven), a leading provider of healthcare analytics solutions, for estimated cash consideration of $2.6 billion. Truven has developed proprietary analytic methods and assembled analytic content assets, creating extensive national healthcare utilization, performance, quality, and cost data. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2016. At the date of issuance of the financial statements, the initial purchase accounting for the Ustream, The Weather Company and Resource/Ammirati transactions was not complete. 2014 In 2014, the company completed six acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $608 million. The Software segment completed acquisitions of five privately held companies: in the first quarter, Aspera, Inc. (Aspera) and Cloudant, Inc. (Cloudant); in the second quarter, Silverpop Systems, Inc. (Silverpop) and Cognea Group Pty LTD (Cognea); and in the third quarter, CrossIdeas Srl (CrossIdeas). Global Technology Services completed one acquisition in the third quarter, Lighthouse Security Group, LLC (Lighthouse), a privately held company. Asperas technology helps make cloud computing faster, more predictable and more cost effective for big data transfers such as enterprise storage, sharing virtual images or accessing the cloud for increased computing capacity. Cloudant extends the companys mobile and cloud platform by enabling developers to easily and quickly create next-generation mobile and web-based applications. Silverpop is a provider of cloud-based capabilities that deliver personalized customer engagements in highly scalable environments. Cognea offers personalized artificial intelligence capabilities designed to serve as an intuitive interface between human users and data-driven information. CrossIdeas delivers next generation identity and access governance capabilities to help mitigate access risks and segregation of duty violations. Lighthouse is a provider of cloud-enabled managed identity and access management solutions. The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2014. 2014 Acquisitions ($ in millions) Amortization Total Life (in Years) Acquisitions Current assets $ 56 Fixed assets/noncurrent assets 39 Intangible assets Goodwill N/A 442 Completed technology 57 68 Client relationships 7 77 Patents/trademarks 17 18 Total assets acquired 701 Current liabilities (26 ) Noncurrent liabilities (67 ) Total liabilities assumed (93 ) Total purchase price $ 608 N/ANot applicable 95 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The overall weighted-average life of the identified amortizable intangible assets acquired is 6.8 years. These identified intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Goodwill of $442 million was assigned to the Software ($430 million) and GTS ($11 million) segments. It was expected that approximately 1 percent of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes. All acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired companies. 2013 In 2013, the company completed 10 acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $3,219 million. SoftLayer Technologies, Inc. (SoftLayer)On July 3, 2013, the company completed the acquisition of 100 percent of the privately held company, SoftLayer, a cloud computing infrastructure provider based in Dallas, Texas for cash consideration of $1,977 million. SoftLayer joined the companys Cloud business unit, which combined SoftLayer with IBM SmartCloud into a global platform. Goodwill of $1,285 million was assigned to the Global Technology Services ($1,246 million) and Software ($39 million) segments. At the acquisition date, it was expected that none of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired is 7.0 years. Other AcquisitionsThe Software segment completed acquisitions of eight privately held companies: in the first quarter, StoredIQ Inc. (StoredIQ) and Star Analytics, Inc. (Star Analytics); in the second quarter, UrbanCode Inc. (UrbanCode); in the third quarter, Trusteer, Ltd. (Trusteer) and Daeja Image Systems, Ltd. (Daeja); and in the fourth quarter, Xtify, Inc. (Xtify), The Now Factory and Fiberlink Communications (Fiberlink). Systems Hardware completed one acquisition in the third quarter, CSL International (CSL), a privately held company. All acquisitions in 2013 were for 100 percent of the acquired companies. The acquisition of StoredIQ advances the companys efforts to help clients derive value from big data. The combination of the companys and Star Analytics software advances the companys business analytics initiatives. UrbanCode automates the delivery of software, helping businesses quickly release and update mobile, social, big data and cloud applications. CSL deepens the consolidation cloud capabilities by offering simplified management of the virtualization environment. Trusteer extends the companys data security capabilities further into the cloud, mobile and endpoint security space. Daeja delivers software that helps employees across all industries, especially data intensive ones such as banking, insurance and healthcare, get faster access to critical business information, and complements the companys big data capabilities. Xtify is a leading provider of cloud-based mobile messaging tools that help organizations improve mobile sales, drive in-store traffic and engage customers with personalized offers. The Now Factory is a provider of analytics software that helps communications service providers (CSPs) deliver better customer experiences and drive new revenue opportunities. Fiberlink is a mobile management and security company, that supports the companys expanding vision for enterprise mobility management, which encompasses secure transactions between businesses, partners, and customers. The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2013. 2013 Acquisitions ($ in millions) Amortization Other Life (in Years) SoftLayer Acquisitions Current assets $ 80 $ 97 Fixed assets/noncurrent assets 300 41 Intangible assets Goodwill N/A 1,285 961 Completed technology 57 290 181 Client relationships 67 245 97 In-process R&D N/A 2 Patents/trademarks 27 75 32 Total assets acquired 2,277 1,408 Current liabilities (56 ) (61 ) Noncurrent liabilities (244 ) (105 ) Total liabilities assumed (300 ) (166 ) Total purchase price $ 1,977 $ 1,242 N/ANot applicable 96 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies For the Other Acquisitions, the overall weighted-average life of the identified amortizable intangible assets acquired is 6.6 years. These identified intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Goodwill of $961 million was assigned to the Software ($948 million) and Systems Hardware ($13 million) segments. At the acquisition dates, it was expected that approximately 2 percent of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. Divestitures MicroelectronicsOn October 20, 2014, IBM and GLOBALFOUNDRIES announced a definitive agreement in which GLOBALFOUNDRIES would acquire the companys Microelectronics business, including existing semiconductor manufacturing assets and operations in East Fishkill, NY and Essex Junction, VT. The commercial OEM business to be acquired by GLOBALFOUNDRIES included custom logic and specialty foundry, manufacturing and related operations. The transaction closed on July 1, 2015. The transaction included a 10-year exclusive manufacturing sourcing agreement in which GLOBALFOUNDRIES will provide server processor semiconductor technology for use in IBM Systems. The agreement provides the company with capacity and market-based pricing for current semiconductor nodes in production and progression to nodes in the future for both development and production needs. As part of the transaction, the company provides GLOBALFOUNDRIES with certain transition services, including IT, supply chain, packaging and test services and lab services. The initial term for these transition services is one to three years, with GLOBALFOUNDRIES having the ability to renew. In the third quarter of 2014, the company recorded a pre-tax charge of $4.7 billion related to the sale of the Microelectronics disposal group, which was part of the Systems Hardware reportable segment. The pre-tax charge reflected the fair value less the estimated cost of selling the disposal group including an impairment to the semiconductor long-lived assets of $2.4 billion, $1.5 billion representing the cash consideration expected to be transferred to GLOBALFOUNDRIES and $0.8 billion of other related costs. Additional pre-tax charges of $116 million were recorded during 2015 related to the disposal. The cumulative pre-tax charge was $4.8 billion as of December 31, 2015. Additional charges may be recorded in future periods. All assets and liabilities of the business, which were held for sale at June 30, 2015, were transferred at closing. The company transferred $515 million of net cash to GLOBALFOUNDRIES in the third quarter of 2015. This amount included $750 million of cash consideration, adjusted by the amount of working capital due from GLOBALFOUNDRIES and other miscellaneous items. The remaining cash consideration will be transferred over two years. Reporting the related assets and liabilities initially as held for sale at September 30, 2014 was based on meeting all of the criteria for such reporting in the applicable accounting guidance. While the company met certain criteria for held for sale reporting in prior periods, it did not meet all of the criteria until September 30, 2014. In addition, at September 30, 2014, the company concluded that the Microelectronics business met the criteria for discontinued operations reporting. The disposal group constitutes a component under accounting guidance. The continuing cash inflows and outflows with the discontinued component are related to the manufacturing sourcing arrangement and the transition, packaging and test services. These cash flows are not direct cash flows as they are not significant and the company will have no significant continuing involvement. Summarized financial information for discontinued operations is shown below. ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 Total revenue $ 720 $ 1,335 $ 1,384 Loss from discontinued operations, before tax (175 ) (619 ) (720 ) Loss on disposal, before tax (116 ) (4,726 ) Total loss from discontinued operations, before income taxes (291 ) (5,346 ) (720 ) Provision/(benefit) for income taxes (117 ) (1,617 ) (322 ) Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (174 ) $ (3,729 ) $ (398 ) The assets and liabilities at December 31, 2014 presented below were classified as held for sale. ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Assets: Accounts receivable $ $ 245 Inventory 380 Property, plant & equipment, net Other assets 92 Total assets $ $ 717 Liabilities: Accounts payable $ $ 177 Deferred income 87 Other liabilities 163 Total liabilities $ $ 427 Industry Standard ServerOn January 23, 2014, IBM and Lenovo Group Limited (Lenovo) announced a definitive agreement in which Lenovo would acquire the companys industry standard server portfolio (System x) for an adjusted purchase price of $2.1 billion, consisting of approximately $1.8 billion in cash, with the balance in Lenovo common stock. The stock represented less than 5 percent equity ownership in Lenovo. The company would sell to Lenovo its System x, BladeCenter and Flex System blade servers and switches, x86-based Flex integrated systems, NeXtScale and iDataPlex servers and associated software, blade networking and maintenance operations. 97 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies IBM and Lenovo entered into a strategic relationship which included a global OEM and reseller agreement for sales of IBMs industry-leading entry and midrange Storwize disk storage systems, tape storage systems, General Parallel File System software, SmartCloud Entry offering, and elements of IBMs system software, including Systems Director and Platform Computing solutions. Effective with the initial closing of the transaction, Lenovo assumed related customer service and maintenance operations. IBM will continue to provide maintenance delivery on Lenovos behalf for an extended period of time. In addition, as part of the transaction agreement, the company will provide Lenovo with certain transition services, including IT and supply chain services. The initial term for these transition services ranges from less than one year to three years. Lenovo can renew certain services for an additional year. The initial closing was completed on October 1, 2014. A subsequent closing occurred in most other countries in which there was a large business footprint on December 31, 2014. The remaining countries closed on March 31, 2015 resulting in a pre-tax gain of $16 million in the first quarter of 2015. In the second quarter of 2015, an additional pre-tax gain of $36 million was recorded attributed to certain adjustments resolved during the quarter. An assessment of the ongoing contractual terms of the transaction resulted in the recognition of a pre-tax gain of $11 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. A total pre-tax gain of $63 million was recognized in 2015. Overall, the company expects to recognize a total pre-tax gain on the sale of approximately $1.6 billion, which does not include associated costs related to transition and performance-based costs. Net of these charges, the pre-tax gain is approximately $1.2 billion, of which $1.1 billion was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2014. The balance of the gain is expected to be recognized in 2019 upon conclusion of the maintenance agreement. Customer CareOn September 10, 2013, IBM and SYNNEX announced a definitive agreement in which SYNNEX would acquire the companys worldwide customer care business process outsourcing services business for $501 million, consisting of approximately $430 million in cash, net of balance sheet adjustments, and $71 million in SYNNEX common stock, which represented less than 5 percent equity ownership in SYNNEX. As part of the transaction, SYNNEX entered into a multi-year agreement with the company, and Concentrix, SYNNEXs outsourcing business, became an IBM strategic business partner for global customer care business process outsourcing services. The initial closing was completed on January 31, 2014, with subsequent closings occurring in 2014. For the full year of 2014, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $202 million related to this transaction. In the second quarter of 2015, resolution of the final balance sheet adjustments was concluded. An assessment of the ongoing contractual terms of the transaction resulted in the recognition of a pre-tax gain of $7 million in 2015. Through December 31, 2015, the cumulative pre-tax gain attributed to this transaction was $209 million. Retail Store SolutionsOn April 17, 2012, the company announced that it had signed a definitive agreement with Toshiba TEC for the sale of its Retail Store Solutions business. As part of the transaction, the company agreed to transfer the maintenance business to Toshiba TEC within three years of the original closing of the transaction. The company completed the final phase of the transfer of the maintenance workforce to Toshiba in the second quarter of 2015. The parts and inventory transfer to Toshiba will commence in 2018. An assessment of the ongoing contractual terms of the transaction resulted in the recognition of a pre-tax gain of $8 million in 2015. Overall, the company has recognized a cumulative total pre-tax gain on the sale of $519 million. OthersIn addition to those above, the company completed the following divestitures: 2015In the fourth quarter of 2015, the company completed the divestiture of its Kenexa Compensation Portfolio business to SCMC Acquisition, LLC. and the divestiture of the Rational System Architect and SPSS Data Collections suite of products to UNICOM. In the second quarter of 2015, the company completed the divestiture of its Travel & Transportation kiosk business to Embross North America Ltd., and the divestiture of its Telecom Expense Management product to Tangoe, Inc. In the first quarter of 2015, the company completed the divestiture of the Algorithmics Collateral Management suite of products to SmartStream, Inc. and the divestiture of the Commerce ILOG Supply Chain Optimization Tools suite of products to Llamasoft, Inc. All of the above transactions closed in 2015 and the financial terms related to these transactions were not material. Overall, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $81 million related to these transactions in 2015. 2014In the second quarter of 2014, the company completed the divestitures of its solidDB suite of products to UNICOM Systems, Inc. and its Human Capital Management business line in France to Sopra Group. In the third quarter of 2014, the company completed the divestiture of its Cognos Finance product to UNICOM Systems, Inc., its IMS Tools Suite of products to Rocket Software, Inc., its Sterling Transportation Management System to Kewill Inc., and its ILOG JViews and Elixir Visualization products to Rogue Wave Software, Inc. In the fourth quarter of 2014, the company completed the divestiture of its Focal Point and PurifyPlus product suite to UNICOM Systems, Inc. All of the above transactions closed in 2014 and the financial terms related to these transactions were not material. Overall, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $132 million related to these transactions in 2014. 98 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 2013In the first quarter of 2013, the company completed the divestiture of its Showcase Reporting product set to Help/Systems. In the fourth quarter of 2013, the company completed two divestitures, the Applicazioni Contabili Gestionali (ACG) business to TeamSystem and the Cognos Application Development Tools (ADT) business to UNICOM Systems, Inc. Financial terms of these transactions did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. NOTE D. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Fair Value Measurements Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The following tables present the companys financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2015 and 2014. ($ in millions) At December 31, 2015: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash equivalents (1) Time deposits and certificates of deposit $ $ 2,856 $ $ 2,856 Money market funds 2,069 2,069 Other securities 18 18 Total 2,069 2,874 4,943 (6) Debt securitiescurrent (2) 506 506 (6) Debt securitiesnoncurrent (3) 1 6 8 Trading security investments (3) 28 28 Available-for-sale equity investments (3) 192 192 Derivative assets (4) Interest rate contracts 656 656 Foreign exchange contracts 332 332 Equity contracts 6 6 Total 994 994 (7) Total assets $ 2,290 $ 4,381 $ $ 6,671 (7) Liabilities Derivative liabilities (5) Foreign exchange contracts $ $ 164 $ $ 164 Equity contracts 19 19 Interest rate contracts 3 3 Total liabilities $ $ 186 $ $ 186 (7) (1) Included within cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. (2) Commercial paper and certificates of deposit reported as marketable securities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. (3) Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. (4) The gross balances of derivative assets contained within prepaid expenses and other current assets, and investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2015 were $292 million and $702 million, respectively. (5) The gross balances of derivative liabilities contained within other accrued expenses and liabilities, and other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2015 were $164 million and $22 million, respectively. (6) Available-for-sale securities with carrying values that approximate fair value. (7) If derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement had been netted in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the total derivative asset and liability positions would have been reduced by $139 million each. 99 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) At December 31, 2014: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash equivalents (1) Time deposits and certificates of deposit $ $ 3,517 $ $ 3,517 Commercial paper 764 764 Money market funds 662 662 U.S. government securities 410 410 Other securities 6 6 Total 662 4,697 5,359 (5) Debt securitiesnoncurrent (2) 1 8 9 Trading security investments (2) 74 74 Available-for-sale equity investments (2) 243 243 Derivative assets (3) Interest rate contracts 633 633 Foreign exchange contracts 775 775 Equity contracts 24 24 Total 1,432 1,432 (6) Total assets $ 980 $ 6,138 $ $ 7,118 (6) Liabilities Derivative liabilities (4) Foreign exchange contracts $ $ 177 $ $ 177 Equity contracts 19 19 Total liabilities $ $ 196 $ $ 196 (6) (1) Included within cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. (2) Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. (3) The gross balances of derivative assets contained within prepaid expenses and other current assets, and investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2014 were $751 million and $681 million, respectively. (4) The gross balances of derivative liabilities contained within other accrued expenses and liabilities, and other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2014 were $165 million and $31 million, respectively. (5) Available-for-sale securities with carrying values that approximate fair value. (6) If derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement had been netted in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the total derivative asset and liability positions would have been reduced by $97 million each. There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 for the year ended December 31, 2015. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the company transferred trading security investments valued at $74 million from Level 2 to Level 1 due to the expiration of certain regulatory restrictions. Financial Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value Short-Term Receivables and Payables Notes and other accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value. Accounts payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt (excluding the current portion of long-term debt) are financial liabilities with carrying values that approximate fair value. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Loans and Long-Term Receivables Fair values are based on discounted future cash flows using current interest rates offered for similar loans to clients with similar credit ratings for the same remaining maturities. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value for loans and long-term receivables was immaterial. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Long-Term Debt Fair value of publicly traded long-term debt is based on quoted market prices for the identical liability when traded as an asset in an active market. For other long-term debt for which a quoted 100 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value. The carrying amount of long-term debt is $33,428 million and $34,991 million and the estimated fair value is $35,220 million and $37,524 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, long-term debt (including the current portion) would be classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Debt and Marketable Equity Securities The companys cash equivalents and current debt securities are considered available-for-sale and recorded at fair value, which is not materially different from carrying value, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The following tables summarize the companys noncurrent debt and marketable equity securities which are also considered available-for-sale and recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. ($ in millions) Gross Gross Adjusted Unrealized Unrealized Fair At December 31, 2015: Cost Gains Losses Value Debt securitiesnoncurrent (1) $ 5 $ 3 $ $ 8 Available-for-sale equity investments (1) $ 186 $ 6 $ 0 $ 192 (1) Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. ($ in millions) Gross Gross Adjusted Unrealized Unrealized Fair At December 31, 2014: Cost Gains Losses Value Debt securitiesnoncurrent (1) $ 7 $ 3 $ $ 9 Available-for-sale equity investments (1) $ 272 $ 2 $ 31 $ 243 (1) Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. During the fourth quarter of 2014, the company acquired equity securities in conjunction with the sale of System x business which are classified as available-for-sale securities. Based on an evaluation of available evidence as of December 31, 2015, the company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment due to the duration and extent of the decline in fair value of these securities. The impairment charge of $86 million was recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The adjusted cost basis of these securities was $185 million as of December 31, 2015. Sales of debt and available-for-sale equity investments during the period were as follows: ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 Proceeds $ 8 $ 21 $ 41 Gross realized gains (before taxes) 1 0 13 Gross realized losses (before taxes) 1 5 5 The after-tax net unrealized gains/(losses) on available-for-sale debt and equity securities that have been included in other comprehensive income/(loss) and the after-tax net (gains)/losses reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) to net income were as follows: ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 Net unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ (33 ) $ (18 ) Net unrealized (gains)/losses reclassified to net income* 53 3 * Includes pre-tax writedowns of $86 million in 2015. There were no writedowns in 2014. The contractual maturities of substantially all available-for-sale debt securities are less than one year at December 31, 2015. Derivative Financial Instruments The company operates in multiple functional currencies and is a significant lender and borrower in the global markets. In the normal course of business, the company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, and to a lesser extent equity and commodity price changes and client credit risk. The company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives, and, where cost effective, financing with debt in the currencies in which assets are denominated. For interest rate exposures, derivatives are used to better align rate movements between the interest rates associated with the companys 101 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies lease and other financial assets and the interest rates associated with its financing debt. Derivatives are also used to manage the related cost of debt. For foreign currency exposures, derivatives are used to better manage the cash flow volatility arising from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. As a result of the use of derivative instruments, the company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based upon their overall credit profile. The companys established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk on principal transactions include reviewing and establishing limits for credit exposure and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties. The right of set-off that exists under certain of these arrangements enables the legal entities of the company subject to the arrangement to net amounts due to and from the counterparty reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default. The company is also a party to collateral security arrangements with most of its major derivative counterparties. These arrangements require the company to hold or post collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury securities) when the derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds. Posting thresholds can be fixed or can vary based on credit default swap pricing or credit ratings received from the major credit agencies. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability position at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $28 million and $21 million, respectively, for which no collateral was posted at either date. Full collateralization of these agreements would be required in the event that the companys credit rating falls below investment grade or if its credit default swap spread exceeds 250 basis points, as applicable, pursuant to the terms of the collateral security arrangements. The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in net asset positions as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $994 million and $1,432 million, respectively. This amount represents the maximum exposure to loss at the reporting date as a result of the counterparties failing to perform as contracted. This exposure was reduced by $139 million and $97 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, of liabilities included in master netting arrangements with those counterparties. Additionally, at December 31, 2015 and 2014, this exposure was reduced by $90 million and $487 million of cash collateral and $40 million and $31 million of non-cash collateral in U.S. Treasury securities, respectively, received by the company. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Statement of Financial Position was $726 million and $817 million, respectively. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the net amount related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Statement of Financial Position was $47 million and $99 million, respectively. In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments. No amount was recognized in other receivables at December 31, 2015 and 2014 for the right to reclaim cash collateral. The amount recognized in accounts payable for the obligation to return cash collateral totaled $90 million and $487 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The company restricts the use of cash collateral received to rehypothecation, and therefore reports it in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. No amount was rehypothecated at December 31, 2015 and 2014. The company may employ derivative instruments to hedge the volatility in stockholders equity resulting from changes in currency exchange rates of significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect to the U.S. dollar. These instruments, designated as net investment hedges, expose the company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not offset by a cash flow from the translation of the underlying hedged equity. The company monitors this cash loss potential on an ongoing basis, and may discontinue some of these hedging relationships by de-designating or terminating the derivative instrument in order to manage the liquidity risk. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to offset the changes in the fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity. In its hedging programs, the company uses forward contracts, futures contracts, interest-rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and options depending upon the underlying exposure. The company is not a party to leveraged derivative instruments. A brief description of the major hedging programs, categorized by underlying risk, follows. Interest Rate Risk Fixed and Variable Rate Borrowings The company issues debt in the global capital markets, principally to fund its financing lease and loan portfolio. Access to cost-effective financing can result in interest rate mismatches with the underlying assets. To manage these mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the company uses interest rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt issuances into variable-rate debt (i.e., fair value hedges) and to convert specific variable-rate debt issuances into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow hedges). At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the total notional amount of the companys interest rate swaps was $7.3 billion and $5.8 billion, respectively. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately 7.2 years and 8.7 years, respectively. 102 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Forecasted Debt Issuance The company is exposed to interest rate volatility on future debt issuances. To manage this risk, the company may use forward-starting interest rate swaps to lock in the rate on the interest payments related to the forecasted debt issuance. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at December 31, 2015 and 2014. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, net gains of less than $1 million (before taxes), respectively, were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) in connection with cash flow hedges of the companys borrowings. Within these amounts, less than $1 million of gains, respectively, are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying transactions. Foreign Exchange Risk Long-Term Investments in Foreign Subsidiaries (Net Investment) A large portion of the companys foreign currency denominated debt portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders equity caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the functional currency of major foreign subsidiaries with respect to the U.S. dollar. The company also uses cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts for this risk management purpose. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the total notional amount of derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges was $5.5 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately 0.2 years for both periods. Anticipated Royalties and Cost Transactions The companys operations generate significant nonfunctional currency, third-party vendor payments and intercompany payments for royalties and goods and services among the companys non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the parent company. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its currency risk. These forward contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company is hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is four years. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactions was $8.2 billion and $9.3 billion, respectively, with a weighted-average remaining maturity of 0.7 years for both periods. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, in connection with cash flow hedges of anticipated royalties and cost transactions, the company recorded net gains of $147 million and net gains of $602 million (before taxes), respectively, in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). Within these amounts $121 million of gains and $572 million of gains, respectively, are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions. Foreign Currency Denominated Borrowings The company is exposed to exchange rate volatility on foreign currency denominated debt. To manage this risk, the company employs cross-currency swaps to convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company hedges its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is approximately seven years. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, no amounts were outstanding under this program. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, in connection with cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated borrowings, the company recorded net losses of $2 million (before taxes), respectively, in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). Within these amounts, less than $1 million of losses, respectively, are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying exposure. Subsidiary Cash and Foreign Currency Asset/Liability Management The company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the companys nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year. The changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the underlying hedged exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of foreign currency exposure was $11.7 billion and $13.1 billion, respectively. Equity Risk Management The company is exposed to market price changes in certain broad market indices and in the companys own stock primarily related to certain obligations to employees. Changes in the overall value of these employee compensation obligations are recorded in SG&A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company utilizes derivatives, including equity swaps and futures, to economically hedge the exposures related to its employee compensation obligations. The derivatives are linked to the total return on certain broad market indices or the total return on the companys common stock. They are recorded at fair value with gains or losses also reported in SG&A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of these compensation obligations was $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. 103 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Other Risks The company may hold warrants to purchase shares of common stock in connection with various investments that are deemed derivatives because they contain net share or net cash settlement provisions. The company records the changes in the fair value of these warrants in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company did not have any warrants qualifying as derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2015 and 2014. The company is exposed to a potential loss if a client fails to pay amounts due under contractual terms. The company may utilize credit default swaps to economically hedge its credit exposures. These derivatives have terms of one year or less. The swaps are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at December 31, 2015 and 2014. The company is exposed to market volatility on certain investment securities. The company may utilize options or forwards to economically hedge its market exposure. The derivatives are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of investment securities was less than $0.1 billion for both periods. The following tables provide a quantitative summary of the derivative and non-derivative instrument-related risk management activity as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, as well as for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Fair Values of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position ($ in millions) Fair Value of Derivative Assets Fair Value of Derivative Liabilities Balance Sheet Balance Sheet At December 31: Classification 2015 2014 Classification 2015 2014 Designated as hedging instruments Interest rate contracts Prepaid expenses and other current assets $ $ 5 Other accrued expenses and liabilities $ $ 0 Investments and sundry assets 656 628 Other liabilities 3 Foreign exchange contracts Prepaid expenses and other current assets 197 632 Other accrued expenses and liabilities 70 50 Investments and sundry assets 5 17 Other liabilities 19 21 Fair value of derivative assets $ 858 $ 1,281 Fair value of derivative liabilities $ 92 $ 72 Not designated as hedging instruments Foreign exchange contracts Prepaid expenses and other current assets $ 90 $ 90 Other accrued expenses and liabilities $ 75 $ 101 Investments and sundry assets 40 37 Other liabilities 4 Equity contracts Prepaid expenses and other current assets 6 24 Other accrued expenses and liabilities 19 14 Investments and sundry assets 0 Other liabilities 5 Fair value of derivative assets $ 136 $ 151 Fair value of derivative liabilities $ 94 $ 125 Total debt designated as hedging instruments Short-term debt N/A N/A $ $ 0 Long-term debt N/A N/A $ 7,945 $ 7,747 * Total $ 994 $ 1,432 $ 8,131 $ 7,944 * * Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on debt issuance costs in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. N/ANot applicable 104 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The Effect of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings ($ in millions) Gain/(Loss) Recognized in Earnings Consolidated Statement of Recognized on Derivatives(1) Attributable to Risk Being Hedged(2) For the year ended December 31: Earnings Line Item 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Derivative instruments in fair value hedges(5) Interest rate contracts Cost of financing $ 108 $ 231 $ (109 ) $ (1 ) $ (127 ) $ 202 Interest expense 94 206 (74 ) (1 ) (114 ) 138 Derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments(1) Foreign exchange contracts Other (income) and expense 127 (776 ) (328 ) N/A N/A N/A Interest rate contracts Other (income) and expense (1 ) 34 N/A N/A N/A Equity contracts SG&A expense (27 ) 51 164 N/A N/A N/A Other (income) and expense (9 ) (9 ) N/A N/A N/A Total $ 291 $ (263 ) $ (347 ) $ (1 ) $ (241 ) $ 340 ($ in millions) Gain/(Loss) Recognized in Earnings and Other Comprehensive Income Effective Portion Recognized in OCI Consolidated Statement of Earnings Line Item Effective Portion Reclassified from AOCI Ineffectiveness and Amounts Excluded from Effectiveness Testing(3) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Derivative instruments in cash flow hedges Interest rate contracts $ $ $ Interest expense $ 0 $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ Foreign exchange contracts 618 958 43 Other (income) and expense 731 98 162 5 (1 ) 0 Cost of sales 192 (15 ) (34 ) SG&A expense 149 15 39 Instruments in net investment hedges(4) Foreign exchange contracts 889 1,136 173 Interest expense 13 0 3 Total $ 1,507 $ 2,095 $ 216 $ 1,072 $ 97 $ 167 $ 18 $ (1 ) $ 3 (1) The amount includes changes in clean fair values of the derivative instruments in fair value hedging relationships and the periodic accrual for coupon payments required under these derivative contracts. (2) The amount includes basis adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged item recorded during the period and amortization of basis adjustments recorded on de-designated hedging relationships during the period. (3) The amount of gain/(loss) recognized in income represents ineffectiveness on hedge relationships. (4) Instruments in net investment hedges include derivative and non-derivative instruments. (5) For the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, fair value hedges resulted in a loss of $2 million and a gain of $4 million in ineffectiveness, respectively. There were no amounts recorded as ineffectiveness on fair value hedges for the year ended December 31, 2013. N/ANot applicable For the 12 months ending December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, there were no significant gains or losses recognized in earnings representing hedge ineffectiveness or excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (for fair value hedges), or associated with an underlying exposure that did not or was not expected to occur (for cash flow hedges); nor are there any anticipated in the normal course of business. 105 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies NOTE E. INVENTORIES ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Finished goods $ 352 $ 430 Work in process and raw materials 1,199 1,674 Total $ 1,551 $ 2,103 NOTE F. FINANCING RECEIVABLES The following table presents financing receivables, net of allow-ances for credit losses, including residual values. ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Current Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases $ 3,057 $ 3,781 Commercial financing receivables 8,948 8,423 Client loan and installment payment receivables (loans) 7,015 7,631 Total $ 19,020 $ 19,835 Noncurrent Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases $ 4,501 $ 4,449 Client loan and installment payment receivables (loans) 5,512 6,660 Total $ 10,013 $ 11,109 Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases relates principally to the companys systems products and are for terms ranging generally from two to six years. Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases includes unguaranteed residual values of $645 million and $671 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and is reflected net of unearned income of $536 million and $517 million, and net of the allowance for credit losses of $213 million and $165 million at those dates, respectively. Scheduled maturities of minimum lease payments outstanding at December 31, 2015, expressed as a percentage of the total, are approximately: 2016, 44 percent; 2017, 27 percent; 2018, 18 percent; 2019, 8 percent; and 2020 and beyond, 3 percent. Commercial financing receivables, net of allowance for credit losses of $19 million and $17 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, relate primarily to inventory and accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. Payment terms for inventory and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30 to 90 days. Client loan and installment payment receivables (loans), net of allowance for credit losses of $377 million and $396 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, are loans that are provided primarily to clients to finance the purchase of hardware, software and services. Payment terms on these financing arrangements are generally for terms up to seven years. Client loan and installment payment financing contracts are priced independently at competitive market rates. The company has a history of enforcing these financing agreements. The company utilizes certain of its financing receivables as collateral for nonrecourse borrowings. Financing receivables pledged as collateral for borrowings were $545 million and $642 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These borrowings are included in note J, Borrowings, on pages 111 to 113. The company did not have any financing receivables held for sale as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. Financing Receivables by Portfolio Segment The following tables present financing receivables on a gross basis, excluding the allowance for credit losses and residual value, by portfolio segment and by class, excluding commercial financing receivables and other miscellaneous financing receivables at December 31, 2015 and 2014. The company determines its allowance for credit losses based on two portfolio segments: lease receivables and loan receivables, and further segments the portfolio into two classes: major markets and growth markets. ($ in millions) Major Growth At December 31, 2015: Markets Markets Total Financing receivables Lease receivables $ 5,517 $ 1,524 $ 7,041 Loan receivables 9,739 3,165 12,904 Ending balance $ 15,256 $ 4,689 $ 19,945 Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 15,180 $ 4,227 $ 19,406 Individually evaluated for impairment $ 76 $ 462 $ 539 Allowance for credit losses Beginning balance at January 1, 2015 Lease receivables $ 32 $ 133 $ 165 Loan receivables 79 317 396 Total $ 111 $ 450 $ 561 Write-offs (14 ) (48 ) (62 ) Provision 20 122 141 Other (8 ) (43 ) (51 ) Ending balance at December 31, 2015 $ 109 $ 481 $ 590 Lease receivables $ 25 $ 188 $ 213 Loan receivables $ 83 $ 293 $ 377 Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 43 $ 36 $ 79 Individually evaluated for impairment $ 65 $ 445 $ 511 106 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) Major Growth At December 31, 2014: Markets Markets Total Financing receivables Lease receivables $ 5,702 $ 1,943 $ 7,645 Loan receivables 10,049 4,639 14,687 Ending balance $ 15,751 $ 6,581 $ 22,332 Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 15,665 $ 6,156 $ 21,821 Individually evaluated for impairment $ 86 $ 425 $ 511 Allowance for credit losses Beginning balance at January 1, 2014 Lease receivables $ 42 $ 80 $ 123 Loan receivables 95 147 242 Total $ 137 $ 228 $ 365 Write-offs (18 ) (6 ) (24 ) Provision 3 240 243 Other (12 ) (11 ) (23 ) Ending balance at December 31, 2014 $ 111 $ 450 $ 561 Lease receivables $ 32 $ 133 $ 165 Loan receivables $ 79 $ 317 $ 396 Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 42 $ 39 $ 81 Individually evaluated for impairment $ 69 $ 411 $ 480 When determining the allowances, financing receivables are evaluated either on an individual or a collective basis. For individually evaluated receivables, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve. In addition, the company records an unallocated reserve that is calculated by applying a reserve rate to its different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been specifically reserved. This reserve rate is based upon credit rating, probability of default, term, characteristics (lease/loan) and loss history. Financing Receivables on Non-Accrual Status The following table presents the recorded investment in financing receivables which were on non-accrual status at December 31, 2015 and 2014. ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Major markets $ 2 $ 13 Growth markets 63 40 Total lease receivables $ 65 $ 53 Major markets $ 13 $ 27 Growth markets 91 151 Total loan receivables $ 104 $ 178 Total receivables $ 168 $ 231 Impaired Loans The company considers any loan with an individually evaluated reserve as an impaired loan. Depending on the level of impairment, loans will also be placed on a non-accrual status. The following tables present impaired client loan receivables at December 31, 2015 and 2014. ($ in millions) Recorded Related At December 31, 2015: Investment Allowance Major markets $ 50 $ 47 Growth markets 297 284 Total $ 347 $ 331 ($ in millions) Recorded Related At December 31, 2014: Investment Allowance Major markets $ 54 $ 47 Growth markets 299 293 Total $ 353 $ 340 ($ in millions) Interest Income Average Interest Recognized Recorded Income on Cash For the year ended December 31, 2015: Investment Recognized Basis Major markets $ 51 $ 0 $ Growth markets 315 0 Total $ 367 $ 0 $ ($ in millions) Interest Income Average Interest Recognized Recorded Income on Cash For the year ended December 31, 2014: Investment Recognized Basis Major markets $ 68 $ 0 $ Growth markets 208 0 Total $ 276 $ 0 $ 107 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Credit Quality Indicators The companys credit quality indicators, which are based on rating agency data, publicly available information and information provided by customers, are reviewed periodically based on the relative level of risk. The resulting indicators are a numerical rating system that maps to Moodys Investors Service credit ratings as shown below. The company uses information provided by Moodys, where available, as one of many inputs in its determination of customer credit rating. The tables present the gross recorded investment for each class of receivables, by credit quality indicator, at December 31, 2015 and 2014. Receivables with a credit quality indicator ranging from Aaa to Baa3 are considered investment grade. All others are considered non-investment grade. The credit quality indicators do not reflect mitigation actions that the company may take to transfer credit risk to third parties. Lease Receivables ($ in millions) Major Growth At December 31, 2015: Markets Markets Credit rating Aaa Aa3 $ 538 $ 39 A1 A3 1,324 162 Baa1 Baa3 1,493 392 Ba1 Ba2 1,214 352 Ba3 B1 513 277 B2 B3 403 215 Caa D 33 87 Total $ 5,517 $ 1,524 Loan Receivables ($ in millions) Major Growth At December 31, 2015: Markets Markets Credit rating Aaa Aa3 $ 949 $ 80 A1 A3 2,338 336 Baa1 Baa3 2,635 813 Ba1 Ba2 2,143 732 Ba3 B1 905 576 B2 B3 711 447 Caa D 59 181 Total $ 9,739 $ 3,165 At December 31, 2015, the industries which made up Global Financings receivables portfolio consisted of: Financial (36 percent), Manufacturing (14 percent), Government (11 percent), Services (11 percent), Retail (9 percent), Communications (7 percent), Healthcare (6 percent) and Other (6 percent). Lease Receivables ($ in millions) Major Growth At December 31, 2014: Markets Markets Credit rating Aaa Aa3 $ 563 $ 46 A1 A3 1,384 178 Baa1 Baa3 1,704 900 Ba1 Ba2 1,154 272 Ba3 B1 470 286 B2 B3 372 176 Caa D 55 85 Total $ 5,702 $ 1,943 Loan Receivables ($ in millions) Major Growth At December 31, 2014: Markets Markets Credit rating Aaa Aa3 $ 993 $ 110 A1 A3 2,438 425 Baa1 Baa3 3,003 2,148 Ba1 Ba2 2,034 649 Ba3 B1 827 683 B2 B3 655 420 Caa D 98 203 Total $ 10,049 $ 4,639 At December 31, 2014, the industries which made up Global Financings receivables portfolio consisted of: Financial (40 percent), Manufacturing (14 percent), Government (13 percent), Services (9 percent), Retail (8 percent), Communications (6 percent), Healthcare (5 percent) and Other (5 percent). 108 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Past Due Financing Receivables ($ in millions) Recorded Total Total Investment Past Due Financing > 90 Days At December 31, 2015: > 90 Days* Current Receivables and Accruing Major markets $ 5 $ 5,512 $ 5,517 $ 5 Growth markets 30 1,494 1,524 13 Total lease receivables $ 35 $ 7,006 $ 7,041 $ 19 Major markets $ 7 $ 9,732 $ 9,739 $ 7 Growth markets 31 3,134 3,165 14 Total loan receivables $ 38 $ 12,866 $ 12,904 $ 22 Total $ 73 $ 19,872 $ 19,945 $ 40 * Does not include accounts that are fully reserved. ($ in millions) Recorded Total Total Investment Past Due Financing > 90 Days At December 31, 2014: > 90 Days* Current Receivables and Accruing Major markets $ 6 $ 5,696 $ 5,702 $ 6 Growth markets 32 1,911 1,943 14 Total lease receivables $ 38 $ 7,607 $ 7,645 $ 20 Major markets $ 9 $ 10,040 $ 10,049 $ 9 Growth markets 35 4,603 4,639 18 Total loan receivables $ 44 $ 14,643 $ 14,687 $ 27 Total $ 82 $ 22,250 $ 22,332 $ 47 * Does not include accounts that are fully reserved. Troubled Debt Restructurings The company assessed all restructurings that occurred on or after January 1, 2014 and determined that there were no significant troubled debt restructurings for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2015. NOTE G. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Land and land improvements $ 558 $ 667 Buildings and building improvements 6,552 9,524 Plant, laboratory and office equipment 21,116 27,388 Plant and other propertygross 28,226 37,578 Less: Accumulated depreciation 18,051 27,500 Plant and other propertynet 10,176 10,078 Rental machines 1,115 1,456 Less: Accumulated depreciation 565 763 Rental machinesnet 551 693 Totalnet $ 10,727 $ 10,771 In 2015, the company retired the assets associated with the divestiture of the Microelectronics business impacting both plant and other propertygross and accumulated depreciation. 109 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies NOTE H. INVESTMENTS AND SUNDRY ASSETS ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Deferred transition and setup costs and other deferred arrangements* $ 1,624 $ 1,527 Derivativesnoncurrent 702 681 Alliance investments Equity method 82 98 Non-equity method 393 496 Prepaid software 273 332 Long-term deposits 256 300 Other receivables 516 509 Employee benefit-related 273 356 Prepaid income taxes 496 518 Other assets 571 705 ** Total $ 5,187 $ 5,520 ** * Deferred transition and setup costs and other deferred arrangements are related to Global Services client arrangements. Refer to note A, Significant Accounting Policies, on page 85 for additional information. ** Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on debt issuance costs in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. NOTE I. INTANGIBLE ASSETS INCLUDING GOODWILL Intangible Assets The following table details the companys intangible asset balances by major asset class. ($ in millions) Gross Net Carrying Accumulated Carrying At December 31, 2015: Amount Amortization Amount Intangible asset class Capitalized software $ 1,348 $ (581 ) $ 767 Client relationships 1,856 (927 ) 929 Completed technology 2,960 (1,397 ) 1,563 Patents/trademarks 335 (142 ) 193 Other* 44 (10 ) 35 Total $ 6,543 $ (3,057 ) $ 3,487 * Other intangibles are primarily acquired proprietary and nonproprietary business processes, methodologies and systems. ($ in millions) Gross Net Carrying Accumulated Carrying At December 31, 2014: Amount Amortization Amount Intangible asset class Capitalized software $ 1,375 $ (679 ) $ 696 Client relationships 2,208 (1,271 ) 937 Completed technology 2,831 (1,533 ) 1,298 Patents/trademarks 374 (214 ) 161 Other* 18 (6 ) 12 Total $ 6,806 $ (3,702 ) $ 3,104 * Other intangibles are primarily acquired proprietary and nonproprietary business processes, methodologies and systems. The net carrying amount of intangible assets increased $383 million during the year ended December 31, 2015, primarily due to intangible asset additions resulting from acquisitions, partially offset by amortization. There was no impairment of intangible assets recorded in 2015 and 2014. The aggregate intangible amortization expense was $1,193 million and $1,347 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. In addition, in 2015 and 2014, respectively, the company retired $1,809 million and $724 million of fully amortized intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by this amount. The amortization expense for each of the five succeeding years relating to intangible assets currently recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is estimated to be the following at December 31, 2015: ($ in millions) Capitalized Acquired Software Intangibles Total 2016 $ 426 $ 760 $ 1,185 2017 256 650 906 2018 85 492 577 2019 338 338 2020 240 240 110 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Goodwill The changes in the goodwill balances by reportable segment, for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, are as follows: ($ in millions) Foreign Currency Balance Purchase Translation Balance January 1, Goodwill Price and Other December 31, Segment 2015 Additions Adjustments Divestitures Adjustments* 2015 Global Business Services $ 4,555 $ 74 $ 0 $ (1 ) $ (232 ) $ 4,396 Global Technology Services 3,530 694 0 (90 ) 4,133 Software 21,000 1,413 (2 ) (25 ) (741 ) 21,644 Systems Hardware 1,472 410 0 (33 ) 1,848 Total $ 30,556 $ 2,590 $ (3 ) $ (26 ) $ (1,096 ) $ 32,021 * Primarily driven by foreign currency translation. ($ in millions) Foreign Currency Balance Purchase Translation Balance January 1, Goodwill Price and Other December 31, Segment 2014 Additions Adjustments Divestitures Adjustments** 2014 Global Business Services* $ 4,855 $ $ 0 $ (52 ) $ (248 ) $ 4,555 Global Technology Services* 3,608 11 21 (2 ) (108 ) 3,530 Software 21,121 430 $ (17 ) (19 ) (516 ) 21,000 Systems Hardware 1,601 (110 ) (19 ) 1,472 Total $ 31,184 $ 442 $ 4 $ (183 ) $ (891 ) $ 30,556 * Reclassified to conform with 2015 presentation with $469 million reclassified from GTS to GBS at December 31, 2014 for Global Process Services. ** Primarily driven by foreign currency translation. Purchase price adjustments recorded in 2015 and 2014 were related to acquisitions that were completed on or prior to December 31, 2014 or December 31, 2013, respectively, and were still subject to the measurement period that ends at the earlier of 12 months from the acquisition date or when information becomes available. There were no goodwill impairment losses recorded in 2015 or 2014 and the company has no accumulated goodwill impairment losses. NOTE J. BORROWINGS Short-Term Debt ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Commercial paper $ 600 $ 650 Short-term loans 590 480 Long-term debtcurrent maturities 5,271 4,601 * Total $ 6,461 $ 5,731 * * Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on debt issuance costs in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. The weighted-average interest rate for commercial paper at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was 0.4 percent and 0.1 percent, respectively. The weighted-average interest rates for short-term loans was 5.2 percent and 4.0 percent at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 111 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Long-Term Debt Pre-Swap Borrowing ($ in millions) At December 31: Maturities 2015 2014 U.S. dollar notes and debentures (average interest rate at December 31, 2015): 2.80% 20162017 $ 9,351 $ 9,254 3.34% 20182019 7,591 6,835 1.46% 20202021 3,717 6,555 2.35% 2022 1,900 1,000 3.38% 2023 1,500 1,500 3.63% 2024 2,000 2,000 7.00% 2025 600 600 6.22% 2027 469 469 6.50% 2028 313 313 5.88% 2032 600 600 8.00% 2038 83 83 5.60% 2039 745 745 4.00% 2042 1,107 1,107 7.00% 2045 27 27 7.13% 2096 316 316 30,319 31,404 Other currencies (average interest rate at December 31, 2015, in parentheses): Euros (1.8%) 20162025 4,892 5,463 Pound sterling (2.7%) 20172022 1,555 1,176 Japanese yen (0.4%) 20172022 1,180 733 Swiss francs (6.3%) 2020 9 162 Canadian (2.2%) 2017 360 432 Other (13.8%) 20162020 506 367 38,820 39,737 Less: net unamortized discount 838 853 Less: net unamortized debt issuance costs 74 83 ** Add: fair value adjustment* 790 792 38,699 39,593 ** Less: current maturities 5,271 4,601 ** Total $ 33,428 $ 34,991 ** * The portion of the companys fixed-rate debt obligations that is hedged is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as an amount equal to the sum of the debts carrying value plus a fair value adjustment representing changes in the fair value of the hedged debt obligations attributable to movements in benchmark interest rates. ** Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on debt issuance costs in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. 112 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The companys indenture governing its debt securities and its various credit facilities each contain significant covenants which obligate the company to promptly pay principal and interest, limit the aggregate amount of secured indebtedness and sale and leaseback transactions to 10 percent of the companys consolidated net tangible assets, and restrict the companys ability to merge or consolidate unless certain conditions are met. The credit facilities also include a covenant on the companys consolidated net interest expense ratio, which cannot be less than 2.20 to 1.0, as well as a cross default provision with respect to other defaulted indebtedness of at least $500 million. The company is in compliance with all of its significant debt covenants and provides periodic certifications to its lenders. The failure to comply with its debt covenants could constitute an event of default with respect to the debt to which such provisions apply. If certain events of default were to occur, the principal and interest on the debt to which such event of default applied would become immediately due and payable. Post-Swap Borrowing (Long-Term Debt, Including Current Portion) ($ in millions) 2015 2014** For the year ended December 31: Amount Average Rate Amount Average Rate Fixed-rate debt $ 25,499 3.41 % $ 27,180 3.09 % Floating-rate debt* 13,199 0.96 % 12,412 0.82 % Total $ 38,699 $ 39,593 * Includes $7,338 million in 2015 and $5,839 million in 2014 of notional interest rate swaps that effectively convert fixed-rate long-term debt into floating-rate debt. (See note D, Financial Instruments, on pages 101 through 105). ** Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on debt issuance costs in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. Pre-swap annual contractual maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2015, are as follows: ($ in millions) Total 2016 $ 5,273 2017 5,674 2018 4,691 2019 4,003 2020 4,505 2021 and beyond 14,675 Total $ 38,820 Interest on Debt ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 Cost of financing $ 540 $ 542 $ 587 Interest expense 481 484 405 Net investment derivative activity (13 ) 0 (3 ) Interest capitalized 0 4 22 Total interest paid and accrued $ 1,008 $ 1,030 $ 1,011 Refer to the related discussion on page 144 in note T, Segment Information, for total interest expense of the Global Financing segment. See note D, Financial Instruments, on pages 101 through 105 for a discussion of the use of currency and interest rate swaps in the companys debt risk management program. Lines of Credit In 2015, the company extended the term of its five-year, $10 billion Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) by one year to November 10, 2020. The total expense recorded by the company related to this global credit facility was $5.3 million in 2015, $5.4 million in 2014 and $5.4 million in 2013. The Credit Agreement permits the company and its Subsidiary Borrowers to borrow up to $10 billion on a revolving basis. Borrowings of the Subsidiary Borrowers will be unconditionally backed by the company. The company may also, upon the agreement of either existing lenders, or of the additional banks not currently party to the Credit Agreement, increase the commitments under the Credit Agreement up to an additional $2.0 billion. Subject to certain terms of the Credit Agreement, the company and Subsidiary Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow amounts under the Credit Agreement at any time during the Credit Agreement. Interest rates on borrowings under the Credit Agreement will be based on prevailing market interest rates, as further described in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnification provisions. The company believes that circumstances that might give rise to breach of these covenants or an event of default, as specified in the Credit Agreement, are remote. As of December 31, 2015, there were no borrowings by the company, or its subsidiaries, under the Credit Agreement. The company also has other committed lines of credit in some of the geographies which are not significant in the aggregate. Interest rates and other terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from country to country, depending on local market conditions. 113 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies NOTE K. OTHER LIABILITIES ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Income tax reserves $ 3,150 $ 3,146 Excess 401(k) Plus Plan 1,445 1,658 Disability benefits 590 675 Derivative liabilities 22 31 Special restructuring actions 362 431 Workforce reductions 407 469 Deferred taxes 253 129 ** Other taxes payable 89 17 Environmental accruals 270 240 Warranty accruals 83 91 Asset retirement obligations 134 136 Acquisition related 200 50 Divestiture related* 575 1,124 Other 519 536 Total $ 8,099 $ 8,733 ** * Primarily related to the divestiture of the Microelectronics business. ** Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on deferred taxes in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. In response to changing business needs, the company periodically takes workforce reduction actions to improve productivity, cost competitiveness and to rebalance skills. The noncurrent contractually obligated future payments associated with these activities are reflected in the workforce reductions caption in the previous table. In addition, the company executed certain special restructuring-related actions prior to 2006. The previous table provides the noncurrent liabilities associated with these special actions. Current liabilities are included in other accrued expenses and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and were immaterial at December 31, 2015. The noncurrent liabilities are workforce accruals related to terminated employees who are no longer working for the company who were granted annual payments to supplement their incomes in certain countries. Depending on the individual countrys legal requirements, these required payments will continue until the former employee begins receiving pension benefits or passes away. The company employs extensive internal environmental protection programs that primarily are preventive in nature. The company also participates in environmental assessments and cleanups at a number of locations, including operating facilities, previously owned facilities and Superfund sites. The companys maximum exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts have been recorded for non-ARO environmental liabilities that are not probable or estimable. The total amounts accrued for non-ARO environmental liabilities, including amounts classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, that do not reflect actual or anticipated insurance recoveries, were $283 million and $254 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to materially affect the consolidated financial position or consolidated results of the companys operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup periods and changing environmental remediation regulations. As of December 31, 2015, the company was unable to estimate the range of settlement dates and the related probabilities for certain asbestos remediation AROs. These conditional AROs are primarily related to the encapsulated structural fireproofing that is not subject to abatement unless the buildings are demolished and non-encapsulated asbestos that the company would remediate only if it performed major renovations of certain existing buildings. Because these conditional obligations have indeterminate settlement dates, the company could not develop a reasonable estimate of their fair values. The company will continue to assess its ability to estimate fair values at each future reporting date. The related liability will be recognized once sufficient additional information becomes available. The total amounts accrued for ARO liabilities, including amounts classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position were $166 million and $180 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. NOTE L. EQUITY ACTIVITY The authorized capital stock of IBM consists of 4,687,500,000 shares of common stock with a $.20 per share par value, of which 965,728,725 shares were outstanding at December 31, 2015 and 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock with a $.01 per share par value, none of which were outstanding at December 31, 2015. Stock Repurchases The Board of Directors authorizes the company to repurchase IBM common stock. The company repurchased 30,338,647 common shares at a cost of $4,701 million, 71,504,867 common shares at a cost of $13,395 million and 73,121,942 common shares at a cost of $13,993 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These amounts reflect transactions executed through December 31 of each year. Actual cash disbursements for repurchased shares may differ due to varying settlement dates for these transactions. At December 31, 2015, $5,563 million of Board common stock repurchase authorization was available. The company plans to purchase shares on the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. 114 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Other Stock Transactions The company issued the following shares of common stock as part of its stock-based compensation plans and employees stock purchase plan: 6,013,875 shares in 2015, 7,687,026 shares in 2014, and 9,961,389 shares in 2013. The company issued 1,155,558 treasury shares in 2015, 1,264,232 treasury shares in 2014 and 1,849,883 treasury shares in 2013, as a result of restricted stock unit releases and exercises of stock options by employees of certain acquired businesses and by non-U.S. employees. Also, as part of the companys stock-based compensation plans, 1,625,820 common shares at a cost of $248 million, 1,313,569 common shares at a cost of $236 million, and 1,666,069 common shares at a cost of $336 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, were remitted by employees to the company in order to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. These amounts are included in the treasury stock balance in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. Reclassifications and Taxes Related to Items of Other Comprehensive Income ($ in millions) Before Tax Tax (Expense)/ Net of Tax For the year ended December 31, 2015: Amount Benefit Amount Other comprehensive income/(loss) Foreign currency translation adjustments $ (1,379 ) $ (342 ) $ (1,721 ) Net changes related to available-for-sale securities Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ (54 ) $ 21 $ (33 ) Reclassification of (gains)/losses to other (income) and expense 86 (33 ) 53 Total net changes related to available-for-sale securities $ 32 $ (12 ) $ 20 Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ 618 $ (218 ) $ 399 Reclassification of (gains)/losses to: Cost of sales (192 ) 57 (135 ) SG&A expense (149 ) 43 (105 ) Other (income) and expense (731 ) 281 (451 ) Interest expense 0 0 0 Total unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges $ (454 ) $ 162 $ (292 ) Retirement-related benefit plans (1) Prior service costs/(credits) $ 6 $ (2 ) $ 4 Net (losses)/gains arising during the period (2,963 ) 1,039 (1,925 ) Curtailments and settlements 33 (9 ) 24 Amortization of prior service (credits)/costs (100 ) 36 (65 ) Amortization of net (gains)/losses 3,304 (1,080 ) 2,223 Total retirement-related benefit plans $ 279 $ (17 ) $ 262 Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ (1,523 ) $ (208 ) $ (1,731 ) (1) These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See note S, Retirement-Related Benefits, for additional information.) 115 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) Before Tax Tax (Expense)/ Net of Tax For the year ended December 31, 2014: Amount Benefit Amount Other comprehensive income/(loss) Foreign currency translation adjustments $ (1,636 ) $ (438 ) $ (2,074 ) Net changes related to available-for-sale securities Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ (29 ) $ 11 $ (18 ) Reclassification of (gains)/losses to other (income) and expense 5 (2 ) 3 Total net changes related to available-for-sale securities $ (24 ) $ 9 $ (15 ) Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ 958 $ (341 ) $ 618 Reclassification of (gains)/losses to: Cost of sales 15 (7 ) 9 SG&A expense (15 ) 6 (9 ) Other (income) and expense (98 ) 38 (60 ) Interest expense 1 0 0 Total unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges $ 861 $ (304 ) $ 557 Retirement-related benefit plans (1) Prior service costs/(credits) $ 1 $ 0 $ 1 Net (losses)/gains arising during the period (9,799 ) 3,433 (6,366 ) Curtailments and settlements 24 (7 ) 17 Amortization of prior service (credits)/costs (114 ) 41 (73 ) Amortization of net (gains)/losses 2,531 (852 ) 1,678 Total retirement-related benefit plans $ (7,357 ) $ 2,615 $ (4,742 ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ (8,156 ) $ 1,883 $ (6,274 ) (1) These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See note S, Retirement-Related Benefits, for additional information.) 116 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions) Before Tax Tax (Expense)/ Net of Tax For the year ended December 31, 2013: Amount Benefit Amount Other comprehensive income/(loss) Foreign currency translation adjustments $ (1,335 ) $ (66 ) $ (1,401 ) Net changes related to available-for-sale securities Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ (4 ) $ 2 $ (3 ) Reclassification of (gains)/losses to other (income) and expense (8 ) 2 (5 ) Subsequent changes in previously impaired securities arising during the period 4 (1 ) 3 Total net changes related to available-for-sale securities $ (8 ) $ 3 $ (5 ) Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges Unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $ 43 $ (15 ) $ 28 Reclassification of (gains)/losses to: Cost of sales 34 (14 ) 21 SG&A expense (39 ) 14 (25 ) Other (income) and expense (162 ) 62 (99 ) Interest expense 0 0 0 Total unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges $ (123 ) $ 47 $ (76 ) Retirement-related benefit plans (1) Prior service costs/(credits) $ 16 $ 0 $ 16 Net (losses)/gains arising during the period 5,369 (1,974 ) 3,395 Curtailments and settlements (3 ) 1 (2 ) Amortization of prior service (credits)/costs (114 ) 40 (75 ) Amortization of net (gains)/losses 3,499 (1,195 ) 2,304 Total retirement-related benefit plans $ 8,767 $ (3,128 ) $ 5,639 Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ 7,301 $ (3,144 ) $ 4,157 (1) These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See note S, Retirement-Related Benefits, for additional information.) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (net of tax) ($ in millions) Net Change Net Unrealized Net Unrealized Foreign Retirement- Gains/(Losses) Accumulated Gains/(Losses) Currency Related on Available- Other on Cash Flow Translation Benefit For-Sale Comprehensive Hedges Adjustments* Plans Securities Income/(Loss) December 31, 2012 $ (90 ) $ 1,733 $ (27,406 ) $ 4 $ (25,759 ) Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 28 (1,401 ) 3,409 0 2,036 Amount reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (103 ) 0 2,229 (5 ) 2,121 Total change for the period (76 ) (1,401 ) 5,639 (5 ) 4,157 December 31, 2013 (165 ) 332 (21,767 ) (1 ) (21,602 ) Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 618 (2,074 ) (6,348 ) $ (18 ) (7,822 ) Amount reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (60 ) 0 1,605 3 1,548 Total change for the period 557 (2,074 ) (4,742 ) (15 ) (6,274 ) December 31, 2014 392 (1,742 ) (26,509 ) (15 ) (27,875 ) Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 399 (1,721 ) (1,897 ) (33 ) (3,252 ) Amount reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (691 ) 0 2,158 53 1,520 Total change for the period (292 ) (1,721 ) 262 20 (1,731 ) December 31, 2015 $ 100 $ (3,463 ) $ (26,248 ) $ 5 $ (29,607 ) * Foreign currency translation adjustments are presented gross except for any associated hedges which are presented net of tax. 117 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies NOTE M. CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS Contingencies As a company with a substantial employee population and with clients in more than 175 countries, IBM is involved, either as plaintiff or defendant, in a variety of ongoing claims, demands, suits, investigations, tax matters and proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of its business. The company is a leader in the information technology industry and, as such, has been and will continue to be subject to claims challenging its IP rights and associated products and offerings, including claims of copyright and patent infringement and violations of trade secrets and other IP rights. In addition, the company enforces its own IP against infringement, through license negotiations, lawsuits or otherwise. Also, as is typical for companies of IBMs scope and scale, the company is party to actions and proceedings in various jurisdictions involving a wide range of labor and employment issues (including matters related to contested employment decisions, country-specific labor and employment laws, and the companys pension, retirement and other benefit plans), as well as actions with respect to contracts, product liability, securities, foreign operations, competition law and environmental matters. These actions may be commenced by a number of different parties, including competitors, clients, current or former employees, government and regulatory agencies, stockholders and representatives of the locations in which the company does business. Some of the actions to which the company is party may involve particularly complex technical issues, and some actions may raise novel questions under the laws of the various jurisdictions in which these matters arise. The company records a provision with respect to a claim, suit, investigation or proceeding when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Any recorded liabilities, including any changes to such liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with the relevant accounting guidance, the company provides disclosures of matters for which the likelihood of material loss is at least reasonably possible. In addition, the company also discloses matters based on its consideration of other matters and qualitative factors, including the experience of other companies in the industry, and investor, customer and employee relations considerations. With respect to certain of the claims, suits, investigations and proceedings discussed herein, the company believes at this time that the likelihood of any material loss is remote, given, for example, the procedural status, court rulings, and/or the strength of the companys defenses in those matters. With respect to the remaining claims, suits, investigations and proceedings discussed in this Note, except as specifically discussed herein, the company is unable to provide estimates of reasonably possible losses or range of losses, including losses in excess of amounts accrued, if any, for the following reasons. Claims, suits, investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain, and it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. It is the companys experience that damage amounts claimed in litigation against it are unreliable and unrelated to possible outcomes, and as such are not meaningful indicators of the companys potential liability. Further, the company is unable to provide such an estimate due to a number of other factors with respect to these claims, suits, investigations and proceedings, including considerations of the procedural status of the matter in question, the presence of complex or novel legal theories, and/or the ongoing discovery and development of information important to the matters. The company reviews claims, suits, investigations and proceedings at least quarterly, and decisions are made with respect to recording or adjusting provisions and disclosing reasonably possible losses or range of losses (individually or in the aggregate), to reflect the impact and status of settlement discussions, discovery, procedural and substantive rulings, reviews by counsel and other information pertinent to a particular matter. Whether any losses, damages or remedies finally determined in any claim, suit, investigation or proceeding could reasonably have a material effect on the companys business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows will depend on a number of variables, including: the timing and amount of such losses or damages; the structure and type of any such remedies; the significance of the impact any such losses, damages or remedies may have in the Consolidated Financial Statements; and the unique facts and circumstances of the particular matter that may give rise to additional factors. While the company will continue to defend itself vigorously, it is possible that the companys business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these matters. The following is a summary of the more significant legal matters involving the company. The company is a defendant in an action filed on March 6, 2003 in state court in Salt Lake City, Utah by the SCO Group (SCO v. IBM). The company removed the case to Federal Court in Utah. Plaintiff is an alleged successor in interest to some of AT&Ts UNIX IP rights, and alleges copyright infringement, unfair competition, interference with contract and breach of contract with regard to the companys distribution of AIX and Dynix and contribution of code to Linux and the company has asserted counterclaims. On September 14, 2007, plaintiff filed for bankruptcy protection, and all proceedings in this case were stayed. The court in another suit, the SCO Group, Inc. v. Novell, Inc., held a trial in March 2010. The jury found that Novell is the owner of UNIX and UnixWare copyrights; the judge subsequently ruled that SCO is obligated to recognize Novells waiver of SCOs claims against IBM and Sequent for breach of UNIX license agreements. On August 30, 2011, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the district courts ruling and denied SCOs appeal of this matter. In June 2013, the Federal Court in Utah granted SCOs motion to reopen the SCO v. IBM case, 118 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies and proceedings have resumed in that case. In February 2016, the Federal Court ruled in favor of IBM on all of SCOs remaining claims. On May 13, 2010, IBM and the State of Indiana (acting on behalf of the Indiana Family and Social Services Administration) sued one another in a dispute over a 2006 contract regarding the modernization of social service program processing in Indiana. The State terminated the contract, claiming that IBM was in breach, and the State is seeking damages. IBM believes the States claims against it are without merit and is seeking payment of termination amounts specified in the contract. After six weeks of trial, on July 18, 2012, the Indiana Superior Court in Marion County rejected the States claims in their entirety and awarded IBM $52 million plus interest and costs. On February 13, 2014, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed portions of the trial judges findings, found IBM in material breach, and ordered the case remanded to the trial judge to determine the States damages, if any. The Indiana Court of Appeals also affirmed approximately $50 million of the trial courts award of damages to IBM. This matter remains pending in the Indiana courts. On April 16, 2014, Iusacell SA de C.V. (Iusacell) sued IBM, claiming that IBM made fraudulent misrepresentations that induced Iusacell to enter into an agreement with IBM Mexico. Iusacell claims damages for lost profits. Iusacells complaint relates to a contractual dispute in Mexico, which is the subject of a pending arbitration proceeding in Mexico initiated by IBM Mexico against Iusacell for breach of the underlying agreement. On November 14, 2014, the District Court in the Southern District of New York granted IBMs motion to stay Iusacells action against the company pending the arbitration in Mexico between Iusacell and IBM Mexico. IBM United Kingdom Limited (IBM UK) initiated legal proceedings in May 2010 before the High Court in London against the IBM UK Pensions Trust (the UK Trust) and two representative beneficiaries of the UK Trust membership. IBM UK is seeking a declaration that it acted lawfully both in notifying the Trustee of the UK Trust that it was closing its UK defined benefit plans to future accruals for most participants and in implementing the companys new retirement policy. In April 2014, the High Court acknowledged that the changes made to its UK defined benefit plans were within IBMs discretion, but ruled that IBM breached its implied duty of good faith both in implementing these changes and in the manner in which it consulted with employees. Proceedings to determine remedies were held in July 2014, and in February 2015 the High Court held that for IBM to make changes to accruals under the plan would require a new consultation of the participants, but other changes (including to early retirement policy) would not require such consultation. IBM UK has appealed both the breach and remedies judgments. If the appeal is unsuccessful, the Courts rulings would require IBM to reverse the changes made to the UK defined benefit plans retroactive to their effective dates. This could result in an estimated non-operating one-time pre-tax charge of approximately $250 million, plus ongoing defined benefit related accruals. In addition, IBM UK is a defendant in approximately 290 individual actions brought since early 2010 by participants of the defined benefits plans who left IBM UK. These actions, which allege constructive dismissal and age discrimination, are pending before the Employment Tribunal in Southampton UK. On March 24, 2014, in a suit brought by local Works Councils, the Supreme Court of Spain held that IBM Spains Defined Contribution (DC) Plan implemented in 1993 based on the voluntary participation of its employees was null and void. The Supreme Court also held that current employees could reinstate their rights to a Defined Benefit (DB) Plan, although with an offset for DC contributions paid to date. The Court held that IBM Spain did not consult with the Works Councils in seeking to change the pension scheme, and recommended that IBM Spain and the Works Councils engage in discussions over how to carry out the offset. The Constitutional Court denied IBM Spains requested leave to appeal the decision. In March 2015, the National Audience Court ruled that the Works Council was not entitled to dictate the means by which IBM should carry out the offset of DC contributions, but also ruled that the Supreme Courts judgment could be executed without the need for individual lawsuits by employees, rejecting the position that the judgment was declaratory only. The National Audience Court also ruled that IBM should stop making DC contributions, and that the company should promptly reinstate the DB Plan. IBM Spain appealed that ruling and in May 2015, the National Audience Court dismissed the appeal. In February 2016, IBM Spain and the Works Councils agreed on a process to resolve their differences relating to calculating the offset for DC contributions paid to date and the form of a new alternative DC plan. They also agreed to a pay reduction for current employees who elect to remain in the DB plan and to close the DB plan to new hires. In March 2011, the company announced that it had agreed to settle a civil enforcement action with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) relating to alleged violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA). On July 25, 2013, the court approved that 2011 settlement and required that for a two-year period IBM make reports to the SEC and the court on certain matters, including those relating to compliance with the FCPA. The two-year period expired in July 2015. In early 2012, IBM notified the SEC of an investigation by the Polish Central Anti-Corruption Bureau involving allegations of illegal activity by a former IBM Poland employee in connection with sales to the Polish government. IBM is cooperating with the SEC and Polish authorities in this matter. In April 2013, IBM learned that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) is also investigating allegations related to the Poland matter, as well as allegations relating to transactions in Argentina, Bangladesh and Ukraine. The DOJ is also seeking information regarding the companys global FCPA compliance program and its public sector business. The company is cooperating with the DOJ in this matter. In March 2015, putative class action litigation was commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York related to the companys October 2014 announcement that it was divesting its global commercial semiconductor technology business. The company and three of its officers are named as 119 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies defendants. Plaintiffs allege that defendants violated Sections 20(a) and 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. In May 2015, a related putative class action was also commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York based on the same underlying facts, alleging violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. The company, managements Retirement Plans Committee, and three current or former IBM executives are named as defendants. In August 2015, IBM learned that the SEC is conducting an investigation relating to revenue recognition with respect to the accounting treatment of certain transactions in the U.S., UK and Ireland. The company is cooperating with the SEC in this matter. The company is a defendant in numerous actions filed after January 1, 2008 in the Supreme Court for the State of New York, county of Broome, on behalf of hundreds of plaintiffs. The complaints allege numerous and different causes of action, including for negligence and recklessness, private nuisance and trespass. Plaintiffs in these cases seek medical monitoring and claim damages in unspecified amounts for a variety of personal injuries and property damages allegedly arising out of the presence of groundwater contamination and vapor intrusion of groundwater contaminants into certain structures in which plaintiffs reside or resided, or conducted business, allegedly resulting from the release of chemicals into the environment by the company at its former manufacturing and development facility in Endicott. These complaints also seek punitive damages in an unspecified amount. The parties have settled substantially all of these cases. The company is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as Superfund, or laws similar to CERCLA. Such statutes require potentially responsible parties to participate in remediation activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites. The company is also conducting environmental investigations, assessments or remediations at or in the vicinity of several current or former operating sites globally pursuant to permits, administrative orders or agreements with country, state or local environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning certain current or former operating sites. The company is also subject to ongoing tax examinations and governmental assessments in various jurisdictions. Along with many other U.S. companies doing business in Brazil, the company is involved in various challenges with Brazilian tax authorities regarding non-income tax assessments and non-income tax litigation matters. The total potential amount related to these matters for all applicable years is approximately $460 million. The company believes it will prevail on these matters and that this amount is not a meaningful indicator of liability. Commitments The companys extended lines of credit to third-party entities include unused amounts of $5,477 million and $5,365 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. A portion of these amounts was available to the companys business partners to support their working capital needs. In addition, the company has committed to provide future financing to its clients in connection with client purchase agreements for $2,097 million and $1,816 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The company has applied the guidance requiring a guarantor to disclose certain types of guarantees, even if the likelihood of requiring the guarantors performance is remote. The following is a description of arrangements in which the company is the guarantor. The company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise in the context of contracts entered into by the company, under which the company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations and covenants related to such matters as title to assets sold, certain IP rights, specified environmental matters, third-party performance of non-financial contractual obligations and certain income taxes. In each of these circumstances, payment by the company is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, the procedures of which typically allow the company to challenge the other partys claims. While typically indemnification provisions do not include a contractual maximum on the companys payment, the companys obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time and/or nature of claim, and in some instances, the company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the company. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the companys obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the companys business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the company guarantees certain loans and financial commitments. The maximum potential future payment under these financial guarantees was $34 million and $46 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The fair value of the guarantees recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was immaterial. NOTE N. TAXES ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 Income from continuing operations before income taxes U.S. operations $ 5,915 $ 7,509 $ 7,577 Non-U.S. operations 10,030 12,477 12,667 Total income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 15,945 $ 19,986 $ 20,244 120 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The income from continuing operations provision for income taxes by geographic operations is as follows: ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 U.S. operations $ 849 $ 2,093 $ 1,315 Non-U.S. operations 1,732 2,141 2,048 Total continuing operations provision for income taxes $ 2,581 $ 4,234 $ 3,363 The components of the income from continuing operations provision for income taxes by taxing jurisdiction are as follows: ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 U.S. federal Current $ (321 ) $ 1,134 $ 1,694 Deferred 553 105 (708 ) 232 1,239 986 U.S. state and local Current 128 541 277 Deferred 116 (105 ) (330 ) 244 436 (53 ) Non-U.S. Current 2,101 2,825 3,067 Deferred 4 (266 ) (637 ) 2,105 2,559 2,430 Total continuing operations provision for income taxes 2,581 4,234 3,363 Discontinued operations provision for income taxes (117 ) (1,617 ) (322 ) Provision for social security, real estate, personal property and other taxes 3,497 4,068 4,198 Total taxes included in net income $ 5,961 $ 6,685 $ 7,238 A reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal tax rate to the companys effective tax rate from continuing operations is as follows: For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 Statutory rate 35 % 35 % 35 % Foreign tax differential (17 ) (14 ) (13 ) State and local 1 1 0 Domestic incentives (2 ) (2 ) (3 ) Other (1 ) 1 (2 ) Effective rate 16 % 21 % 17 % Percentages rounded for disclosure purposes. The significant components reflected within the tax rate reconciliation labeled Foreign tax differential include the effects of foreign subsidiaries earnings taxed at rates other than the U.S. statutory rate, foreign export incentives, the U.S. tax impacts of non-U.S. earnings repatriation and any net impacts of intercompany transactions. These items also reflect audit settlements or changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits associated with each of these items. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) concluded its examination of the companys income tax returns for 2011 and 2012 and issued a final Revenue Agents Report (RAR). The company has agreed with all of the adjustments in the RAR with the exception of the proposed adjustments related to the tax implications of an internal restructuring undertaken in 2011. The company disagrees with the IRS on this matter and intends to protest the proposed adjustments. The company has redetermined its unrecognized tax benefits for all open years, based on the RAR and associated information and analysis. The 2015 continuing operations effective tax rate decreased 5.0 points from 2014 as a result of: the completion of the 20112012 U.S. tax audit, including reserve redeterminations (3.9 points), a benefit due to the geographic mix of pre-tax income in 2015 (3.5 points) and a benefit due to the 2014 tax charge related to the divestiture of the System x business (0.9 points). These decreases were partially offset due to the following: a reduced benefit year to year in the utilization of foreign tax credits (2.5 points) and the year-to-year increase in tax charges related to intercompany payments made by foreign subsidiaries and the intercompany licensing of certain IP (0.8 points). The effect of tax law changes on deferred tax assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on the companys effective tax rate. The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position were: Deferred Tax Assets ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Retirement benefits $ 4,621 $ 4,795 Share-based and other compensation 963 1,328 Domestic tax loss/credit carryforwards 1,066 858 Deferred income 762 957 Foreign tax loss/credit carryforwards 825 686 Bad debt, inventory and warranty reserves 528 529 Depreciation 329 329 Accruals 904 1,176 Other 931 1,306 Gross deferred tax assets 10,929 11,964 Less: valuation allowance 740 646 Net deferred tax assets $ 10,189 $ 11,318 121 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Deferred Tax Liabilities ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 Depreciation $ 919 $ 487 Retirement benefits 252 205 Goodwill and intangible assets 1,407 1,263 Leases 916 912 Software development costs 554 421 Deferred transition costs 395 374 Other 1,177 1,111 Gross deferred tax liabilities $ 5,620 $ 4,773 For income tax return purposes, the company has foreign and domestic loss carryforwards, the tax effect of which is $742 million, as well as domestic and foreign credit carryforwards of $1,149 million. Substantially all of these carryforwards are available for at least two years or are available for 10 years or more. The valuation allowances as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $740 million, $646 million and $734 million, respectively. The amounts principally apply to certain foreign, state and local loss carryforwards and credits that, in the opinion of management, are more likely than not to expire unutilized. However, to the extent that tax benefits related to these carryforwards are realized in the future, the reduction in the valuation allowance will reduce income tax expense. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2015 decreased by $530 million in 2015 to $4,574 million. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: ($ in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Balance at January 1 $ 5,104 $ 4,458 $ 5,672 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year 464 697 829 Additions for tax positions of prior years 569 586 417 Reductions for tax positions of prior years (including impacts due to a lapse in statute) (1,348 ) (579 ) (2,201 ) Settlements (215 ) (58 ) (259 ) Balance at December 31 $ 4,574 $ 5,104 $ 4,458 The additions to unrecognized tax benefits related to the current and prior years are primarily attributable to non-U.S. issues, certain tax incentives and credits and state issues. The settlements and reductions to unrecognized tax benefits for tax positions of prior years are primarily attributable to the completion of the IRS examination for 2011 and 2012, currency, non-U.S. audits and impacts due to lapses in statutes of limitation. In April 2010, the company appealed the determination of the Japan Tax Authorities with respect to certain foreign tax losses. The unrecognized tax benefit of these losses totals $997 million as of December 31, 2015. In April 2011, the company received notification that the appeal was denied, and in June 2011, the company filed a lawsuit challenging this decision. In May 2014, the Tokyo District Court ruled in favor of the company. The Japanese government appealed the ruling to the Tokyo High Court. In March 2015, the Tokyo High Court ruled in favor of the company and, in April 2015, the Japanese government appealed the ruling to the Japan Supreme Court. See Note U, Subsequent Events, for an update on this matter. The liability at December 31, 2015 of $4,574 million can be reduced by $850 million of offsetting tax benefits associated with the correlative effects of potential transfer pricing adjustments, U.S. tax credits, state income taxes and timing adjustments. The net amount of $3,724 million, if recognized, would favorably affect the companys effective tax rate. The net amounts at December 31, 2014 and 2013 were $4,229 million and $3,902 million, respectively. Interest and penalties related to income tax liabilities are included in income tax expense. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the company recognized $141 million in interest expense and penalties; in 2014, the company recognized $216 million in interest expense and penalties; and, in 2013, the company recognized a benefit of $93 million in interest expense and penalties. The company has $613 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2015, and had $593 million accrued at December 31, 2014 excluding the Japan matter discussed above. Within the next 12 months, the company believes it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits associated with certain positions may be reduced as certain foreign issues may be concluded. The company estimates that the unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2015 could be reduced by approximately $413 million. The company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and various state and foreign jurisdictions. With respect to major U.S. state and foreign taxing jurisdictions, the company is generally no longer subject to tax examinations for years prior to 2011. With limited exception, the company is no longer subject to income tax examination of its U.S. federal tax return for years prior to 2013. The open years contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations related to the amount and/or timing of income, deductions and tax credits. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the company believes that adequate amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any significant adjustments that are expected to result for these years. In the fourth quarter of 2013, the company received a draft tax assessment notice for approximately $866 million (approximately $810 million at 2015 year-end currency rates) from the Indian Tax Authorities for 2009. The company believes it will prevail on these matters and that this amount is not a meaningful indicator 122 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies of liability. At December 31, 2015, the company has recorded $526 million as prepaid income taxes in India. A significant portion of this balance represents cash tax deposits paid over time to protect the companys right to appeal various income tax assessments made by the Indian Tax Authorities. In the first quarter of 2016, the IRS commenced its audit of the companys U.S. tax returns for 2013 and 2014. The company anticipates that this audit will be completed by the end of 2017. The company has not provided deferred taxes on $68.1 billion of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries at December 31, 2015, as it is the companys policy to indefinitely reinvest these earnings in non-U.S. operations. However, the company periodically repatriates a portion of these earnings to the extent that it does not incur an additional U.S. tax liability. Quantification of the deferred tax liability, if any, associated with indefinitely reinvested earnings is not practicable. NOTE O. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING RD&E expense was $5,247 million in 2015, $5,437 million in 2014 and $5,743 million in 2013. In addition, RD&E expense included in discontinued operations was $197 million in 2015, $368 million in 2014 and $483 million in 2013. The company incurred total expense of $5,178 million, $5,595 million and $5,959 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, for scientific research and the application of scientific advances to the development of new and improved products and their uses, as well as services and their application. Within these amounts, software-related expense was $3,064 million, $3,064 million and $3,077 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Expense for product-related engineering was $267 million, $211 million and $267 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. NOTE P. EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK The following table presents the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share of common stock. ($ in millions except per share amounts) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 Weighted-average number of shares on which earnings per share calculations are based Basic 978,744,523 1,004,272,584 1,094,486,604 Addincremental shares under stock-based compensation plans 3,037,001 4,332,155 6,751,240 Addincremental shares associated with contingently issuable shares 918,744 1,395,741 1,804,313 Assuming dilution 982,700,267 1,010,000,480 1,103,042,156 Income from continuing operations $ 13,364 $ 15,751 $ 16,881 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (174 ) (3,729 ) (398 ) Net income on which basic earnings per share is calculated $ 13,190 $ 12,022 $ 16,483 Income from continuing operations $ 13,364 $ 15,751 $ 16,881 Net income applicable to contingently issuable shares (1 ) (3 ) (1 ) Income from continuing operations on which diluted earnings per share is calculated $ 13,363 $ 15,749 $ 16,880 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, on which basic and diluted earnings per share is calculated (174 ) (3,729 ) (398 ) Net income on which diluted earnings per share is calculated $ 13,189 $ 12,020 $ 16,483 Earnings/(loss) per share of common stock Assuming dilution Continuing operations $ 13.60 $ 15.59 $ 15.30 Discontinued operations (0.18 ) (3.69 ) (0.36 ) Total $ 13.42 $ 11.90 $ 14.94 Basic Continuing operations $ 13.66 $ 15.68 $ 15.42 Discontinued operations (0.18 ) (3.71 ) (0.36 ) Total $ 13.48 $ 11.97 $ 15.06 123 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Weighted-average stock options to purchase 41,380 common shares in 2015, 17,420 common shares in 2014 and 8,797 common shares in 2013 were outstanding, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise price of the options was greater than the average market price of the common shares for the full year, and therefore, the effect would have been antidilutive. NOTE Q. RENTAL EXPENSE AND LEASE COMMITMENTS Rental expense, including amounts charged to inventories and fixed assets, and excluding amounts previously reserved, was $1,474 million in 2015, $1,592 million in 2014 and $1,759 million in 2013. Within these amounts, rental expense reflected in discontinued operations was $29 million, $95 million and $115 million, in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Rental expense in agreements with rent holidays and scheduled rent increases is recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent rentals are included in the determination of rental expense as accruable. The table below depicts gross minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases, amounts related to vacant space associated with infrastructure reductions, sublease income commitments and capital lease commitments. These amounts reflect activities primarily related to office space, as well as data centers. ($ in millions) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Beyond 2020 Operating lease commitments Gross minimum rental commitments (including vacant space below) $ 1,347 $ 1,231 $ 1,107 $ 985 $ 776 $ 988 Vacant space $ 14 $ 4 $ 1 $ $ $ Sublease income commitments $ 11 $ 7 $ 5 $ 4 $ 1 $ 1 Capital lease commitments $ 7 $ 2 $ 2 $ 2 $ 1 $ NOTE R. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION The following table presents total stock-based compensation cost included in income from continuing operations. ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 Cost $ 100 $ 121 $ 122 Selling, general and administrative 322 350 435 Research, development and engineering 51 54 57 Other (income) and expense* (6 ) (13 ) Pre-tax stock-based compensation cost 468 512 614 Income tax benefits (156 ) (174 ) (213 ) Net stock-based compensation cost $ 312 $ 338 $ 402 * Reflects the one-time effects related to divestitures. The amount of stock-based compensation cost included in discontinued operations, net of tax, was immaterial in all periods. Total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $871 million and $874 million, respectively. The amount at December 31, 2015 is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.7 years. There was no significant capitalized stock-based compensation cost at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. Incentive Awards Stock-based incentive awards are provided to employees under the terms of the companys long-term performance plans (the Plans). The Plans are administered by the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the Committee). Awards available under the Plans principally include restricted stock units, performance share units, stock options or any combination thereof. The amount of shares originally authorized to be issued under the companys existing Plans was 274 million at December 31, 2015. In addition, certain incentive awards granted under previous plans, if and when those awards were canceled, could be reissued under the companys existing Plans. As such, 66.2 million additional awards were considered authorized to be issued under the companys existing Plans as of December 31, 2015. There were 111.6 million unused shares available to be granted under the Plans as of December 31, 2015. Under the companys long-standing practices and policies, all awards are approved prior to or on the date of grant. The awards approval process specifies the individual receiving the grant, the number of options or the value of the award, the exercise price or formula for determining the exercise price and the date of grant. All awards for senior management are approved by the Committee. All awards for employees other than senior management are approved by senior management pursuant to a series of delegations that were approved by the Committee, and the grants made pursuant to these delegations are reviewed periodically with the 124 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Committee. Awards that are given as part of annual total compensation for senior management and other employees are made on specific cycle dates scheduled in advance. With respect to awards given in connection with promotions or new hires, the companys policy requires approval of such awards prior to the grant date, which is typically the date of the promotion or the date of hire. Stock Awards Stock awards are made in the form of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), including Retention Restricted Stock Units (RRSUs), or Performance Share Units (PSUs). The tables below summarize RSU and PSU activity under the Plans during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. RSUs 2015 2014 2013 Weighted- Weighted- Weighted- Average Number Average Number Average Number Grant Price of Units Grant Price of Units Grant Price of Units Balance at January 1 $ 171 7,734,277 $ 166 8,635,317 $ 148 9,841,461 RSUs granted 143 4,230,186 172 2,525,947 189 2,541,081 RSUs released 164 (3,567,495 ) 157 (2,401,761 ) 131 (2,952,363 ) RSUs canceled/forfeited 167 (869,627 ) 167 (1,025,226 ) 154 (794,862 ) Balance at December 31 $ 159 7,527,341 $ 171 7,734,277 $ 166 8,635,317 PSUs 2015 2014 2013 Weighted- Weighted- Weighted- Average Number Average Number Average Number Grant Price of Units Grant Price of Units Grant Price of Units Balance at January 1 $ 185 3,140,707 $ 178 2,824,294 $ 151 3,172,201 PSUs granted at target 153 1,137,242 180 1,430,098 195 869,875 Performance adjustments* 185 (168,055 ) 157 29,960 118 152,069 PSUs released 185 (840,552 ) 157 (1,027,181 ) 118 (1,321,784 ) PSUs canceled/forfeited 184 (340,410 ) 187 (116,464 ) 170 (48,067 ) Balance at December 31 ** $ 173 2,928,932 $ 185 3,140,707 $ 178 2,824,294 * Represents the change in shares issued to employees after vesting of PSUs because final performance metrics were above or below specified targets. ** Represents the number of shares expected to be issued based on achievement of grant date performance targets. The actual number of shares issued will depend on final performance against specified targets over the vesting period. RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests, typically over a one- to five-year period. For RSUs, dividend equivalents are not paid. The fair value of such RSUs is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the companys stock price adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents. The remaining weighted-average contractual term of RSUs at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 is the same as the period over which the remaining cost of the awards will be recognized, which is approximately three years. The fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $606 million, $434 million and $481 million, respectively. The total fair value of RSUs vested and released during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $583 million, $378 million and $386 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, there was $800 million, $754 million and $871 million, respectively, of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs. The company received no cash from employees as a result of employee vesting and release of RSUs for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. 125 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies PSUs are stock awards where the number of shares ultimately received by the employee depends on the companys performance against specified targets and typically vest over a three-year period. For PSUs, dividend equivalents are not paid. The fair value of each PSU is determined on the grant date, based on the companys stock price, adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents, and assumes that performance targets will be achieved. Over the performance period, the number of shares of stock that will be issued is adjusted upward or downward based upon the probability of achievement of performance targets. The ultimate number of shares issued and the related compensation cost recognized as expense will be based on a comparison of the final performance metrics to the specified targets. The fair value of PSUs granted at target during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $174 million, $257 million and $170 million, respectively. Total fair value of PSUs vested and released during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $156 million, $161 million and $156 million, respectively. In connection with vesting and release of RSUs and PSUs, the tax benefits realized by the company for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $228 million, $222 million and $312 million, respectively. Stock Options Stock options are awards which allow the employee to purchase shares of the companys stock at a fixed price. Stock options are granted at an exercise price equal to the companys average high and low stock price on the date of grant. These awards generally vest in four equal increments on the first four anniversaries of the grant date and have a contractual term of 10 years. The company estimates the fair value of stock options at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Key inputs and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options include the grant price of the award, the expected option term, volatility of the companys stock, the risk-free rate and the companys dividend yield. Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by the company. During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the company did not grant stock options. The following table summarizes option activity under the Plans during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. 2015 2014 2013 Weighted- Number of Weighted- Number of Weighted- Number of Average Shares Average Shares Average Shares Exercise Price Under Option Exercise Price Under Option Exercise Price Under Option Balance at January 1 $ 97 1,750,949 $ 97 5,622,951 $ 94 11,389,721 Options exercised 98 (1,214,109 ) 97 (3,740,252 ) 90 (5,585,127 ) Options canceled/expired 100 (57,066 ) 95 (131,750 ) 86 (181,643 ) Balance at December 31 $ 94 479,774 $ 97 1,750,949 $ 97 5,622,951 Exercisable at December 31 $ 94 479,774 $ 97 1,750,949 $ 97 5,622,951 The shares under option at December 31, 2015 were in the following exercise price ranges: Options Outstanding and Exercisable Weighted-Average Weighted- Number of Aggregate Remaining Average Shares Intrinsic Contractual Life Exercise Price Range Exercise Price Under Option Value (in Years) $85 and under $ 83 192,959 $ 10,597,402 0.3 $86 and over 101 286,815 10,376,342 1.2 $ 94 479,774 $ 20,973,745 0.9 Exercises of Employee Stock Options The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $74 million, $323 million and $614 million, respectively. The total cash received from employees as a result of employee stock option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was approximately $119 million, $364 million and $505 million, respectively. In connection with these exercises, the tax benefits realized by the company for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $26 million, $107 million and $199 million, respectively. The company settles employee stock option exercises primarily with newly issued common shares and, occasionally, with treasury shares. Total treasury shares held at December 31, 2015 and 2014 were approximately 1,255 million and 1,225 million shares, respectively. 126 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Acquisitions In connection with various acquisition transactions, there was an additional 0.4 million shares of stock-based awards, consisting of stock options and restricted stock units, outstanding at December 31, 2015, as a result of the companys conversion of stock-based awards previously granted by the acquired entities. The weighted-average exercise price of these awards was $50 per share. IBM Employees Stock Purchase Plan The company maintains a non-compensatory Employees Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The ESPP enables eligible participants to purchase full or fractional shares of IBM common stock at a 5 percent discount off the average market price on the day of purchase through payroll deductions of up to 10 percent of eligible compensation. Eligible compensation includes any compensation received by the employee during the year. The ESPP provides for offering periods during which shares may be purchased and continues as long as shares remain available under the ESPP, unless terminated earlier at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Individual ESPP participants are restricted from purchasing more than $25,000 of common stock in one calendar year or 1,000 shares in an offering period. Employees purchased 1.3 million, 1.3 million and 1.5 million shares under the ESPP during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Cash dividends declared and paid by the company on its common stock also include cash dividends on the company stock purchased through the ESPP. Dividends are paid on full and fractional shares and can be reinvested. The company stock purchased through the ESPP is considered outstanding and is included in the weighted-average outstanding shares for purposes of computing basic and diluted earnings per share. In July 2014, the 2014 ESPP Reserve became effective and 25 million additional shares of authorized common stock were reserved and approved for issuance. The 2014 ESPP provides for semi-annual offerings commencing July 1, 2014, and continuing as long as shares remain available under the ESPP, unless terminated earlier at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Approximately 23.1 million, 24.4 million and 2.3 million shares were available for purchase under the ESPP at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. NOTE S. RETIREMENT-RELATED BENEFITS Description of Plans IBM sponsors defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans that cover eligible regular employees, a supplemental retention plan that covers certain U.S. executives and nonpension postretirement benefit plans primarily consisting of retiree medical and dental benefits for eligible retirees and dependents. U.S. Plans Defined Benefit Pension Plans IBM Personal Pension Plan IBM provides U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees hired prior to January 1, 2005 with noncontributory defined benefit pension benefits via the IBM Personal Pension Plan. Prior to 2008, the IBM Personal Pension Plan consisted of a tax qualified (qualified) plan and a non-tax qualified (nonqualified) plan. Effective January 1, 2008, the nonqualified plan was renamed the Excess Personal Pension Plan (Excess PPP) and the qualified plan is now referred to as the Qualified PPP. The combined plan is now referred to as the PPP. The Qualified PPP is funded by company contributions to an irrevocable trust fund, which is held for the sole benefit of participants and beneficiaries. The Excess PPP, which is unfunded, provides benefits in excess of IRS limitations for qualified plans. Benefits provided to the PPP participants are calculated using benefit formulas that vary based on the participant. The first method uses a five-year, final pay formula that determines benefits based on salary, years of service, mortality and other participant-specific factors. The second method is a cash balance formula that calculates benefits using a percentage of employees annual salary, as well as an interest crediting rate. Benefit accruals under the IBM Personal Pension Plan ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants. U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention Plan The company also sponsors a nonqualified U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention Plan (Retention Plan). The Retention Plan, which is unfunded, provides benefits to eligible U.S. executives based on average earnings, years of service and age at termination of employment. Benefit accruals under the Retention Plan ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants. Defined Contribution Plans IBM 401(k) Plus Plan U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees are eligible to participate in the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, which is a qualified defined contribution plan under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, eligible employees receive a dollar-for-dollar match of their contributions generally up to 6 percent of eligible compensation for those hired prior to January 1, 2005, and, generally up to 5 percent of eligible compensation for those hired on or after January 1, 2005. In addition, eligible employees generally receive automatic contributions from the company equal to 1, 2 or 4 percent of eligible compensation based on their eligibility to participate in the PPP as of December 31, 2007. Employees generally receive automatic contributions and matching contributions after the completion of one year of service. 127 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The companys matching contributions vest immediately and participants are always fully vested in their own contributions. All contributions, including the company match, are made in cash and invested in accordance with participants investment elections. There are no minimum amounts that must be invested in company stock, and there are no restrictions on transferring amounts out of company stock to another investment choice, other than excessive trading rules applicable to such investments. Effective January 1, 2013, matching and automatic contributions are made once annually at the end of the year. In order to receive such contributions each year, a participant must be employed on December 15 of the plan year. However, if a participant separates from service prior to December 15, and has completed certain service and/or age requirements, then the participant will be eligible to receive such matching and automatic contributions following separation from service. IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan The IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan (Excess 401(k)) is an unfunded, nonqualified defined contribution plan. Employees whose eligible compensation is expected to exceed the IRS compensation limit for qualified plans are eligible to participate in the Excess 401(k). The purpose of the Excess 401(k) is to provide benefits that would be provided under the qualified IBM 401(k) Plus Plan if the compensation limits did not apply. Amounts deferred into the Excess 401(k) are record-keeping (notional) accounts and are not held in trust for the participants. Participants in the Excess 401(k) may invest their notional accounts in investments which mirror the primary investment options available under the 401(k) Plus Plan. Participants in the Excess 401(k) are also eligible to receive company match and automatic contributions (at the same rate as under the 401(k) Plus Plan) on eligible compensation deferred into the Excess 401(k) and on compensation earned in excess of the Internal Revenue Code pay limit once they have completed one year of service. Amounts deferred into the Excess 401(k), including company contributions are recorded as liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Effective January 1, 2013, matching and automatic contributions are recorded once annually at the end of the year. In order to receive such contributions each year, a participant must be employed on December 15 of the plan year. However, if a participant separates from service prior to December 15, and has completed certain service and/or age requirements, then the participant will be eligible to receive such matching and automatic contributions following separation from service. Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan U.S. Nonpension Postretirement Plan The company sponsors a defined benefit nonpension postretirement benefit plan that provides medical and dental benefits to eligible U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees. Effective July 1, 1999, the company established a Future Health Account (FHA) for employees who were more than five years from retirement eligibility. Employees who were within five years of retirement eligibility are covered under the companys prior retiree health benefits arrangements. Under either the FHA or the prior retiree health benefit arrangements, there is a maximum cost to the company for retiree health benefits. Effective January 1, 2014, the company amended the plan to establish a Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) for each Medicare-eligible plan retiree, surviving spouse and long-term disability plan participant who is eligible for company-subsidized coverage and who enrolls in an individual plan under the Medicare Exchange. The company also amended its life insurance plan. Employees retiring on or after January 1, 2015 are not eligible for life insurance. Since January 1, 2004, new hires, as of that date or later, are not eligible for company-subsidized nonpension postretirement benefits. Non-U.S. Plans Certain subsidiaries and branches outside the United States sponsor defined benefit and/or defined contribution plans that cover eligible regular employees. The company deposits funds under various fiduciary-type arrangements, purchases annuities under group contracts or provides reserves for these plans. Benefits under the defined benefit plans are typically based either on years of service and the employees compensation (generally during a fixed number of years immediately before retirement) or on annual credits. The range of assumptions that are used for the non-U.S. defined benefit plans reflect the different economic environments within the various countries. In addition, certain of the companys non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor nonpension postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and dental benefits to eligible non-U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance for certain eligible non-U.S. retirees. However, most non-U.S. retirees are covered by local government sponsored and administered programs. 128 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Plan Financial Information Summary of Financial Information The following table presents a summary of the total retirement-related benefits net periodic (income)/cost recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. ($ in millions) U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans Total For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Defined benefit pension plans $ (284 ) $ (833 ) $ (223 ) $ 1,421 $ 1,267 $ 1,396 $ 1,137 $ 434 $ 1,173 Retention Plan 23 15 21 23 15 21 Total defined benefit pension plans (income)/cost $ (261 ) $ (818 ) $ (202 ) $ 1,421 $ 1,267 $ 1,396 $ 1,160 $ 449 $ 1,195 IBM 401(k) Plus Plan and non-U.S. plans $ 676 $ 713 $ 785 $ 442 $ 526 $ 575 $ 1,117 $ 1,239 $ 1,361 Excess 401(k) 21 14 24 21 14 24 Total defined contribution plans cost $ 697 $ 727 $ 809 $ 442 $ 526 $ 575 $ 1,138 $ 1,253 $ 1,384 Nonpension postretirement benefit plans cost $ 218 $ 206 $ 218 $ 55 $ 66 $ 79 $ 273 $ 272 $ 298 Total retirement-related benefits net periodic cost $ 654 $ 115 $ 826 $ 1,918 $ 1,859 $ 2,051 $ 2,572 $ 1,974 $ 2,876 The following table presents a summary of the total PBO for defined benefit pension plans, APBO for nonpension postretirement benefit plans, fair value of plan assets and the associated funded status recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. ($ in millions) Benefit Obligations Fair Value of Plan Assets Funded Status* At December 31: 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 U.S. Plans Overfunded plans Qualified PPP $ 51,287 $ 54,708 $ 51,716 $ 55,772 $ 429 $ 1,065 Underfunded plans Excess PPP $ 1,522 $ 1,602 $ $ $ (1,522 ) $ (1,602 ) Retention Plan 312 334 (312 ) (334 ) Nonpension postretirement benefit plan 4,652 5,053 71 16 (4,582 ) (5,037 ) Total underfunded U.S. plans $ 6,486 $ 6,989 $ 71 $ 16 $ (6,415 ) $ (6,973 ) Non-U.S. Plans Overfunded plans Qualified defined benefit pension plans $ 16,766 $ 16,794 $ 18,070 $ 17,888 $ 1,304 $ 1,094 Nonpension postretirement benefit plans 0 11 0 11 0 0 Total overfunded non-U.S. plans $ 16,766 $ 16,804 $ 18,070 $ 17,898 $ 1,304 $ 1,094 Underfunded plans Qualified defined benefit pension plans $ 22,039 $ 26,278 $ 17,677 $ 21,655 $ (4,362 ) $ (4,623 ) Nonqualified defined benefit pension plans 5,911 6,762 (5,911 ) (6,762 ) Nonpension postretirement benefit plans 618 806 59 73 (558 ) (733 ) Total underfunded non-U.S. plans $ 28,568 $ 33,846 $ 17,737 $ 21,729 $ (10,832 ) $ (12,118 ) Total overfunded plans $ 68,053 $ 71,512 $ 69,786 $ 73,671 $ 1,734 $ 2,159 Total underfunded plans $ 35,054 $ 40,836 $ 17,807 $ 21,745 $ (17,247 ) $ (19,091 ) * Funded status is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as follows: Asset amounts as prepaid pension assets; (Liability) amounts as compensation and benefits (current liability) and retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations (noncurrent liability). At December 31, 2015, the companys qualified defined benefit pension plans worldwide were 97 percent funded compared to the benefit obligations, with the U.S. Qualified PPP 101 percent funded. Overall, including nonqualified plans, the companys defined benefit pension plans worldwide were 89 percent funded. 129 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan Financial Information The following tables through page 132 represent financial information for the companys retirement-related benefit plans, excluding defined contribution plans. The defined benefit pension plans under U.S. Plans consists of the Qualified PPP, the Excess PPP and the Retention Plan. The defined benefit pension plans and the nonpension postretirement benefit plans under non-U.S. Plans consists of all plans sponsored by the companys subsidiaries. The nonpension postretirement benefit plan under U.S. Plan consists of only the U.S. Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan. The tables below present the components of net periodic (income)/cost of the retirement-related benefit plans recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, excluding defined contribution plans. ($ in millions) Defined Benefit Pension Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Service cost $ $ $ $ 454 $ 449 $ 501 Interest cost 2,028 2,211 1,980 1,075 1,533 1,524 Expected return on plan assets (3,953 ) (4,096 ) (3,981 ) (1,919 ) (2,247 ) (2,195 ) Amortization of transition assets 0 0 0 Amortization of prior service costs/(credits) 10 10 10 (98 ) (111 ) (119 ) Recognized actuarial losses 1,654 1,056 1,790 1,581 1,400 1,600 Curtailments and settlements 35 26 0 Multi-employer plans/other costs* 293 217 85 Total net periodic (income)/cost $ (261 ) $ (818 ) $ (202 ) $ 1,421 $ 1,267 $ 1,396 ($ in millions) Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Service cost $ 24 $ 26 $ 35 $ 7 $ 7 $ 10 Interest cost 163 187 164 50 63 60 Expected return on plan assets 0 0 (1 ) (7 ) (9 ) (9 ) Amortization of transition assets 0 0 0 Amortization of prior service costs/(credits) (7 ) (7 ) (5 ) (5 ) (5 ) Recognized actuarial losses 39 0 21 10 11 23 Curtailments and settlements 0 0 0 Total net periodic cost $ 218 $ 206 $ 218 $ 55 $ 66 $ 79 * The non-U.S. plans amount includes $233 million and $148 million related to the IBM Spain pension litigation for 2015 and 2014, respectively. See page 132 for additional information. 130 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets of the companys retirement-related benefit plans, excluding defined contribution plans. ($ in millions) Defined Benefit Pension Plans Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Change in benefit obligation Benefit obligation at January 1 $ 56,643 $ 51,034 $ 49,834 $ 48,620 $ 5,053 $ 4,633 $ 817 $ 832 Service cost 454 449 24 26 7 7 Interest cost 2,028 2,211 1,075 1,533 163 187 50 63 Plan participants contributions 34 37 52 61 Acquisitions/divestitures, net 39 (90 ) (8 ) 0 0 0 Actuarial losses/(gains) (1,920 ) 6,968 (861 ) 6,662 (204 ) 548 (52 ) 38 Benefits paid from trust (3,514 ) (3,455 ) (1,784 ) (1,985 ) (406 ) (388 ) (5 ) (5 ) Direct benefit payments (117 ) (114 ) (402 ) (465 ) (23 ) (37 ) (26 ) (26 ) Foreign exchange impact (3,907 ) (5,073 ) (174 ) (91 ) Medicare/Government subsidies 1 23 Amendments/curtailments/settlements/other 235 146 0 0 0 (1 ) Benefit obligation at December 31 $ 53,120 $ 56,643 $ 44,717 $ 49,834 $ 4,652 $ 5,053 $ 618 $ 817 Change in plan assets Fair value of plan assets at January 1 $ 55,772 $ 53,954 $ 39,543 $ 39,464 $ 16 $ 177 $ 84 $ 92 Actual return on plan assets (542 ) 5,274 417 5,579 0 0 7 9 Employer contributions 474 465 409 166 0 0 Acquisitions/divestitures, net 53 (59 ) 0 0 0 0 Plan participants contributions 34 37 52 61 Benefits paid from trust (3,514 ) (3,455 ) (1,784 ) (1,985 ) (406 ) (388 ) (5 ) (5 ) Foreign exchange impact (3,004 ) (4,049 ) (26 ) (11 ) Amendments/curtailments/settlements/other 14 * 93 * (1 ) 0 Fair value of plan assets at December 31 $ 51,716 $ 55,772 $ 35,748 $ 39,543 $ 71 $ 16 $ 59 $ 84 Funded status at December 31 $ (1,405 ) $ (871 ) $ (8,969 ) $ (10,291 ) $ (4,582 ) $ (5,037 ) $ (558 ) $ (733 ) Accumulated benefit obligation** $ 53,120 $ 56,643 $ 44,071 $ 47,516 N/A N/A N/A N/A * Includes the reinstatement of certain plan assets in Brazil due to government rulings in 2011 and 2013 allowing certain previously restricted plan assets to be returned to IBM. Return of assets to IBM over a three-year period began June 2011 and September 2013 respectively, with approximately $33 million returned in 2015 and $122 million returned during 2014. The remaining surplus in Brazil at December 31, 2015 is excluded from total plan assets due to continued restrictions imposed by the government on the use of those plan assets. ** Represents the benefit obligation assuming no future participant compensation increases. N/ANot applicable The following table presents the net funded status recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. ($ in millions) Defined Benefit Pension Plans Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans At December 31: 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Prepaid pension assets $ 429 $ 1,065 $ 1,304 $ 1,095 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Current liabilitiescompensation and benefits (116 ) (111 ) (297 ) (326 ) (320 ) (381 ) (11 ) (13 ) Noncurrent liabilitiesretirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations (1,718 ) (1,825 ) (9,976 ) (11,060 ) (4,262 ) (4,656 ) (547 ) (720 ) Funded statusnet $ (1,405 ) $ (871 ) $ (8,969 ) $ (10,291 ) $ (4,582 ) $ (5,037 ) $ (558 ) $ (733 ) 131 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The following table presents the pre-tax net loss and prior service costs/(credits) and transition (assets)/liabilities recognized in OCI and the changes in the pre-tax net loss, prior service costs/(credits) and transition (assets)/liabilities recognized in AOCI for the retirement-related benefit plans. ($ in millions) Defined Benefit Pension Plans Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Net loss at January 1 $ 18,442 $ 13,709 $ 21,676 $ 19,777 $ 852 $ 304 $ 189 $ 161 Current period loss/(gain) 2,576 5,789 661 3,324 (204 ) 548 (51 ) 38 Curtailments and settlements (33 ) (25 ) 0 1 Amortization of net loss included in net periodic (income)/cost (1,654 ) (1,056 ) (1,581 ) (1,400 ) (39 ) 0 (10 ) (11 ) Net loss at December 31 $ 19,363 $ 18,442 $ 20,724 $ 21,676 $ 609 $ 852 $ 128 $ 189 Prior service costs/(credits) at January 1 $ 110 $ 120 $ (386 ) $ (496 ) $ 23 $ 15 $ (26 ) $ (32 ) Current period prior service costs/(credits) (6 ) (1 ) 0 0 Amortization of prior service (costs)/credits included in net periodic (income)/cost (10 ) (10 ) 98 111 7 7 5 5 Prior service costs/(credits) at December 31 $ 101 $ 110 $ (294 ) $ (386 ) $ 30 $ 23 $ (21 ) $ (26 ) Transition (assets)/liabilities at January 1 $ $ $ 0 $ 0 $ $ $ 0 $ 0 Amortization of transition assets/(liabilities) included in net periodic (income)/cost 0 0 0 0 Transition (assets)/liabilities at December 31 $ $ $ 0 $ 0 $ $ $ 0 $ 0 Total loss recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) * $ 19,464 $ 18,552 $ 20,429 $ 21,290 $ 639 $ 875 $ 106 $ 163 * See note L, Equity Activity, for the total change in AOCI, and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the components of net periodic (income)/cost, including the related tax effects, recognized in OCI for the retirement-related benefit plans. The following table presents the pre-tax estimated net loss, estimated prior service costs/(credits) and estimated transition (assets)/liabilities of the retirement-related benefit plans that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic (income)/cost in 2016. ($ in millions) Defined Benefit Nonpension Postretirement Pension Plans Benefit Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans Net loss $ 1,331 $ 1,361 $ 19 $ 8 Prior service costs/(credits) 10 (96 ) (7 ) (4 ) Transition (assets)/liabilities On March 24, 2014, the Supreme Court of Spain issued a ruling against IBM Spain in litigation involving its defined benefit and defined contribution plans. As a result of the ruling, the company recorded pre-tax retirement-related obligations of $233 million in 2015 and $148 million in 2014 in selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. These obligations are reflected in Non-U.S. PlansMulti-employer plans/other costs in the table on page 130. See note M, Contingencies and Commitments, on page 119 for additional information regarding pension plan litigation matters. 132 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Assumptions Used to Determine Plan Financial Information Underlying both the measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic (income)/cost are actuarial valuations. These valuations use participant-specific information such as salary, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, the most significant of which include estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates. The company evaluates these assumptions, at a minimum, annually, and makes changes as necessary. The table below presents the assumptions used to measure the net periodic (income)/cost and the year-end benefit obligations for retirement-related benefit plans. Defined Benefit Pension Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Weighted-average assumptions used to measure net periodic (income)/cost for the year ended December 31 Discount rate 3.70 % 4.50 % 3.60 % 2.34 % 3.32 % 3.23 % Expected long-term returns on plan assets 7.50 % 8.00 % 8.00 % 5.67 % 6.08 % 6.21 % Rate of compensation increase N/A N/A N/A 2.49 % 2.52 % 2.51 % Weighted-average assumptions used to measure benefit obligations at December 31 Discount rate 4.00 % 3.70 % 4.50 % 2.40 % 2.34 % 3.32 % Rate of compensation increase N/A N/A N/A 2.40 % 2.49 % 2.52 % N/ANot applicable Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Weighted-average assumptions used to measure net periodic cost for the year ended December 31 Discount rate 3.40 % 4.10 % 3.30 % 7.51 % 7.78 % 6.43 % Expected long-term returns on plan assets N/A N/A 0.35 % 10.17 % 10.22 % 9.01 % Weighted-average assumptions used to measure benefit obligations at December 31 Discount rate 3.70 % 3.40 % 4.10 % 7.06 % 7.51 % 7.78 % N/ANot applicable Discount Rate The discount rate assumptions used for retirement-related benefit plans accounting reflect the yields available on high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments at the measurement date. For the U.S. and certain non-U.S. countries, a portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds is used to construct a yield curve. The cash flows from the companys expected benefit obligation payments are then matched to the yield curve to derive the discount rates. In other non-U.S. countries, where the markets for high-quality long-term bonds are not generally as well developed, a portfolio of long-term government bonds is used as a base, to which a credit spread is added to simulate corporate bond yields at these maturities in the jurisdiction of each plan, as the benchmark for developing the respective discount rates. 133 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies For the U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the changes in the discount rate assumptions impacted the net periodic (income)/cost and the PBO. The changes in the discount rate assumptions resulted in a decrease in 2015 net periodic income of $286 million, an increase in 2014 net periodic income of $275 million and a decrease in 2013 net periodic income of $162 million. The changes in the discount rate assumptions resulted in a decrease in the PBO of $1,621 million and an increase of $4,437 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. For the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the changes in the discount rate assumptions had no material impact on net periodic cost for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, and resulted in a decrease in the APBO of $109 million and an increase of $256 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. For all of the companys retirement-related benefit plans, the change in the discount rate assumptions resulted in a decrease in the benefit obligation of approximately $2 billion at December 31, 2015 and an increase of approximately $11 billion at December 31, 2014. Expected Long-Term Returns on Plan Assets Expected returns on plan assets, a component of net periodic (income)/cost, represent the expected long-term returns on plan assets based on the calculated market-related value of plan assets. Expected long-term returns on plan assets take into account long-term expectations for future returns and the investment policies and strategies as described on page 135. These rates of return are developed by the company and are tested for reasonableness against historical returns. The use of expected long-term returns on plan assets may result in recognized pension income that is greater or less than the actual returns of those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the expected long-term returns are designed to approximate the actual long-term returns, and therefore result in a pattern of income and cost recognition that more closely matches the pattern of the services provided by the employees. Differences between actual and expected returns are recognized as a component of net loss or gain in AOCI, which is amortized as a component of net periodic (income)/cost over the service lives or life expectancy of the plan participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed certain thresholds provided by accounting standards. The market-related value of plan assets recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets systematically over a five-year period in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic (income)/cost. For the U.S. defined benefit pension plan, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was 7.5 percent, 8 percent and 8 percent, respectively. The change in the rate in 2015 resulted in a decrease in 2015 net periodic income of $264 million. For 2016, the projected long-term rate of return on plan assets is approximately 7.0 percent. For the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the company maintains a highly liquid trust fund balance to ensure timely payments are made. As a result, for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return on those assets were not material. Rate of Compensation Increases and Mortality Rate The rate of compensation increases is determined by the company, based upon its long-term plans for such increases. The rate of compensation increase is not applicable to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans as benefit accruals ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants. Mortality rate assumptions are based on life expectancy and death rates for different types of participants. Mortality rates are periodically updated based on actual experience. In the U.S., the Society of Actuaries released new mortality tables in 2014 and updated them in 2015. The company utilized these tables in its plan remeasurements at December 31, 2015 and 2014. For the U.S. retirement related plans, the change in mortality assumptions resulted in a decrease to the plan benefit obligations of $0.7 billion and an increase of $2.6 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Interest Crediting Rate Benefits for certain participants in the PPP are calculated using a cash balance formula. An assumption underlying this formula is an interest crediting rate, which impacts both net periodic (income)/ cost and the PBO. This assumption provides a basis for projecting the expected interest rate that participants will earn on the benefits that they are expected to receive in the following year and is based on the average from August to October of the one-year U.S. Treasury Constant Maturity yield plus one percent. For the PPP, the interest crediting rate of 1.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2015 was unchanged from 2014 and, therefore, had no impact on the decrease in 2015 net periodic income. The change in the interest crediting rate to 1.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2014, from 1.2 percent for the year ended December 31, 2013, resulted in an increase in 2014 net periodic income of $8 million. The change in the interest crediting rate to 1.2 percent for the year ended December 31, 2013, from 1.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2012, resulted in a decrease in 2013 net periodic income of $6 million. 134 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Healthcare Cost Trend Rate For nonpension postretirement benefit plan accounting, the company reviews external data and its own historical trends for healthcare costs to determine the healthcare cost trend rates. However, the healthcare cost trend rate has an insignificant effect on plan costs and obligations as a result of the terms of the plan which limit the companys obligation to the participants. The company assumes that the healthcare cost trend rate for 2016 will be 7 percent. In addition, the company assumes that the same trend rate will decrease to 5 percent over the next eight years. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would not have had a material effect on 2015, 2014 and 2013 net periodic cost or the benefit obligations as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. Plan Assets Retirement-related benefit plan assets are recognized and measured at fair value. Because of the inherent uncertainty of valuations, these fair value measurements may not necessarily reflect the amounts the company could realize in current market transactions. Investment Policies and Strategies The investment objectives of the Qualified PPP portfolio are designed to generate returns that will enable the plan to meet its future obligations. The precise amount for which these obligations will be settled depends on future events, including the retirement dates and life expectancy of the plans participants. The obligations are estimated using actuarial assumptions, based on the current economic environment and other pertinent factors described on pages 133 through 134. The Qualified PPP portfolios investment strategy balances the requirement to generate returns, using potentially higher yielding assets such as equity securities, with the need to control risk in the portfolio with less volatile assets, such as fixed-income securities. Risks include, among others, inflation, volatility in equity values and changes in interest rates that could cause the plan to become underfunded, thereby increasing its dependence on contributions from the company. To mitigate any potential concentration risk, careful consideration is given to balancing the portfolio among industry sectors, companies and geographies, taking into account interest rate sensitivity, dependence on economic growth, currency and other factors that affect investment returns. In 2014, the company changed its investment strategy, modifying the target asset allocation, primarily by reducing equity securities and increasing debt securities. This change was designed to reduce the potential negative impact that equity markets might have on the funded status of the plan. The Qualified PPP portfolios target allocation is 34 percent equity securities, 56 percent fixed-income securities, 5 percent real estate and 5 percent other investments. The assets are managed by professional investment firms and investment professionals who are employees of the company. They are bound by investment mandates determined by the companys management and are measured against specific benchmarks. Among these managers, consideration is given, but not limited to, balancing security concentration, issuer concentration, investment style and reliance on particular active and passive investment strategies. Market liquidity risks are tightly controlled, with $5,219 million of the Qualified PPP portfolio as of December 31, 2015 invested in private market assets consisting of private equities and private real estate investments, which are less liquid than publicly traded securities. In addition, the Qualified PPP portfolio had $2,547 million in commitments for future investments in private markets to be made over a number of years. These commitments are expected to be funded from plan assets. Derivatives are used as an effective means to achieve investment objectives and/or as a component of the plans risk management strategy. The primary reasons for the use of derivatives are fixed income management, including duration, interest rate management and credit exposure, cash equitization and to manage currency and commodity strategies. Outside the U.S., the investment objectives are similar to those described above, subject to local regulations. The weighted-average target allocation for the non-U.S. plans is 29 percent equity securities, 58 percent fixed-income securities, 2 percent real estate and 11 percent other investments, which is consistent with the allocation decisions made by the companys management. The table on page 136 details the actual equity, fixed income, real estate and other types of investments for non-U.S. plans. In some countries, a higher percentage allocation to fixed income is required to manage solvency and funding risks. In others, the responsibility for managing the investments typically lies with a board that may include up to 50 percent of members elected by employees and retirees. This can result in slight differences compared with the strategies previously described. Generally, these non-U.S. plans do not invest in illiquid assets and their use of derivatives is consistent with the U.S. plan and mainly for currency hedging, interest rate risk management, credit exposure and alternative investment strategies. The companys nonpension postretirement benefit plans are underfunded or unfunded. For some plans, the company maintains a nominal, highly liquid trust fund balance to ensure timely benefit payments. 135 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets The following table presents the companys defined benefit pension plans asset classes and their associated fair value at December 31, 2015. The U.S. Plan consists of the Qualified PPP and the non-U.S. Plans consist of all plans sponsored by the companys subsidiaries. ($ in millions) U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity Equity securities (1) $ 11,210 $ 1 $ $ 11,211 $ 4,631 $ 0 $ $ 4,631 Equity commingled/mutual funds (2) (3) 99 2,036 2,134 90 6,200 6,290 Fixed income Government and related (4) 9,854 9,854 7,482 16 7,499 Corporate bonds (5) 17,088 2 17,090 1,896 4 1,899 Mortgage and asset-backed securities 633 10 643 219 219 Fixed income commingled/mutual funds (2) (6) 313 192 401 907 38 9,082 9,120 Insurance contracts 1,079 1,079 Cash and short-term investments (7) 244 2,305 2,549 142 467 610 Hedge funds 1,419 912 2,331 659 659 Private equity (8) 2,790 2,790 582 582 Private real estate (8) 2,429 2,429 661 661 Derivatives (9) (82 ) 2 (80 ) (1 ) 481 480 Other commingled/mutual funds (2) (10) 115 1,637 317 2,069 Subtotal 11,784 33,531 6,544 51,859 5,016 29,202 1,580 35,798 Other (11) (143 ) (50 ) Fair value of plan assets $ 11,784 $ 33,531 $ 6,544 $ 51,716 $ 5,016 $ 29,202 $ 1,580 $ 35,748 (1) Represents U.S. and international securities. The U.S. Plan includes IBM common stock of $34 million, representing 0.1 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. Plans include IBM common stock of $14 million, representing 0.04 percent of the non-U.S. Plans assets. (2) Commingled funds represent pooled institutional investments. (3) Invests in predominantly equity securities. (4) Includes debt issued by national, state and local governments and agencies. (5) The U.S. Plan includes IBM corporate bonds of $23 million, representing 0.04 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. plans include IBM corporate bonds of $1 million representing 0.004 percent of the non-U.S. Plan assets. (6) Invests in predominantly fixed-income securities. (7) Includes cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities. (8) Primarily includes limited partnerships. (9) Includes interest rate derivatives, forwards, exchange traded and other over-the-counter derivatives. (10) Invests in both equity and fixed-income securities. (11) Represents net unsettled transactions, relating primarily to purchases and sales of plan assets. The U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $71 million were invested in cash, categorized as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. The non-U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $59 million, primarily in Brazil, and, to a lesser extent, in Mexico and South Africa, were invested primarily in government and related fixed-income securities and corporate bonds, categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. 136 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The following table presents the companys defined benefit pension plans asset classes and their associated fair value at December 31, 2014. The U.S. Plan consists of the Qualified PPP and the non-U.S. Plans consist of all plans sponsored by the companys subsidiaries. ($ in millions) U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity Equity securities (1) $ 11,527 $ 1 $ $ 11,528 $ 5,652 $ $ $ 5,652 Equity commingled/mutual funds (2) (3) 85 2,277 2,362 126 7,415 7,540 Fixed income Government and related (4) 7,883 7,883 8,159 32 8,191 Corporate bonds (5) 18,828 4 18,832 2,063 1 2,063 Mortgage and asset-backed securities 567 20 587 238 238 Fixed income commingled/mutual funds (2) (6) 312 3,118 295 3,725 87 9,715 9,802 Insurance contracts 1,053 1,053 Cash and short-term investments (7) 345 2,304 2,650 158 393 551 Hedge funds 1,474 889 2,362 745 745 Private equity (8) 3,287 3,287 513 513 Private real estate (8) 2,942 2,942 664 664 Derivatives (9) (55 ) 3 (53 ) 2 846 848 Other commingled/mutual funds (2) (10) 33 1,513 220 1,766 Subtotal 12,214 36,455 7,437 56,106 6,056 32,139 1,429 39,625 Other (11) (333 ) (82 ) Fair value of plan assets $ 12,214 $ 36,455 $ 7,437 $ 55,772 $ 6,056 $ 32,139 $ 1,429 $ 39,543 (1) Represents U.S. and international securities. The U.S. Plan includes IBM common stock of $55 million, representing 0.1 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. Plans include IBM common stock of $21 million, representing 0.1 percent of the non-U.S. Plans assets. (2) Commingled funds represent pooled institutional investments. (3) Invests in predominantly equity securities. (4) Includes debt issued by national, state and local governments and agencies. (5) The U.S. Plan includes IBM corporate bonds of $10 million, representing 0.02 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. plans include IBM corporate bonds of $4 million representing 0.01 percent of the non-U.S. Plan assets. (6) Invests in predominantly fixed-income securities. (7) Includes cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities. (8) Primarily includes limited partnerships. (9) Includes interest rate derivatives, forwards, exchange traded and other over-the-counter derivatives. (10) Invests in both equity and fixed-income securities. (11) Represents net unsettled transactions, relating primarily to purchases and sales of plan assets. The U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $16 million were invested in cash, categorized as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. The non-U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $84 million, primarily in Brazil, and, to a lesser extent, in Mexico and South Africa, were invested primarily in government and related fixed-income securities and corporate bonds, categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. 137 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The following tables present the reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of Level 3 assets for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 for the U.S. Plan. ($ in millions) Mortgage and Asset- Fixed Income Government Corporate Backed Commingled/ Hedge Private Private and Related Bonds Securities Mutual Funds Funds Equity Real Estate Total Balance at January 1, 2015 $ $ 4 $ 20 $ 295 $ 889 $ 3,287 $ 2,942 $ 7,437 Return on assets held at end of year 0 0 9 23 (199 ) (210 ) (377 ) Return on assets sold during the year 1 0 0 429 460 889 Purchases, sales and settlements, net (5 ) (2 ) 98 (727 ) (763 ) (1,399 ) Transfers, net 2 (8 ) 0 (6 ) Balance at December 31, 2015 $ $ 2 $ 10 $ 401 $ 912 $ 2,790 $ 2,429 $ 6,544 ($ in millions) Mortgage and Asset- Fixed Income Government Corporate Backed Commingled/ Hedge Private Private and Related Bonds Securities Mutual Funds Funds Equity Real Estate Total Balance at January 1, 2014 $ 1 $ 5 $ 19 $ 274 $ 860 $ 3,771 $ 3,038 $ 7,968 Return on assets held at end of year 0 0 21 28 (10 ) 197 238 Return on assets sold during the year 0 0 332 199 531 Purchases, sales and settlements, net 0 (3 ) (807 ) (492 ) (1,302 ) Transfers, net (1 ) (1 ) 4 2 Balance at December 31, 2014 $ $ 4 $ 20 $ 295 $ 889 $ 3,287 $ 2,942 $ 7,437 The following tables present the reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of Level 3 assets for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 for the non-U.S. Plans. ($ in millions) Other Government Corporate Private Private Commingled/ and Related Bonds Equity Real Estate Mutual Funds Total Balance at January 1, 2015 $ 32 $ 1 $ 513 $ 664 $ 220 $ 1,429 Return on assets held at end of year (2 ) 0 (25 ) 45 28 47 Return on assets sold during the year 0 0 62 46 107 Purchases, sales and settlements, net (10 ) 3 73 (62 ) 84 88 Transfers, net Foreign exchange impact (3 ) 0 (42 ) (31 ) (15 ) (91 ) Balance at December 31, 2015 $ 16 $ 4 $ 582 $ 661 $ 317 $ 1,580 ($ in millions) Other Government Corporate Private Private Commingled/ and Related Bonds Equity Real Estate Mutual Funds Total Balance at January 1, 2014 $ 42 $ 4 $ 410 $ 655 $ $ 1,110 Return on assets held at end of year 3 0 26 83 26 138 Return on assets sold during the year 0 0 46 (12 ) 34 Purchases, sales and settlements, net (8 ) (3 ) 75 (13 ) 104 155 Transfers, net 0 102 102 Foreign exchange impact (5 ) 0 (45 ) (49 ) (12 ) (110 ) Balance at December 31, 2014 $ 32 $ 1 $ 513 $ 664 $ 220 $ 1,429 138 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Valuation Techniques The following is a description of the valuation techniques used to measure plan assets at fair value. There were no changes in valuation techniques during 2015 and 2014. Equity securities are valued at the closing price reported on the stock exchange on which the individual securities are traded. IBM common stock is valued at the closing price reported on the New York Stock Exchange. Equity commingled/mutual funds are typically valued using the net asset value (NAV) provided by the administrator of the fund and reviewed by the company. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund, minus liabilities and divided by the number of shares or units outstanding. These assets are classified as Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 depending on availability of quoted market prices. The fair value of fixed-income securities is typically estimated using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows and are generally classified as Level 2. If available, they are valued using the closing price reported on the major market on which the individual securities are traded. Cash includes money market accounts that are valued at their cost plus interest on a daily basis, which approximates fair value. Short-term investments represent securities with original maturities of one year or less. These assets are classified as Level 1 or Level 2. Private equity and private real estate partnership valuations require significant judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. These assets are initially valued at cost and are reviewed periodically utilizing available and relevant market data to determine if the carrying value of these assets should be adjusted. These investments are classified as Level 3. The valuation methodology is applied consistently from period to period. Exchange traded derivatives are valued at the closing price reported on the exchange on which the individual securities are traded, while forward contracts are valued using a mid-close price. Over-the-counter derivatives are typically valued using pricing models. The models require a variety of inputs, including, for example, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility and foreign exchange rates. These assets are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 depending on availability of quoted market prices. Expected Contributions Defined Benefit Pension Plans It is the companys general practice to fund amounts for pensions sufficient to meet the minimum requirements set forth in applicable employee benefits laws and local tax laws. From time to time, the company contributes additional amounts as it deems appropriate. The company contributed $474 million in cash to non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $40 million in cash to multi-employer plans for the year ended December 31, 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the company contributed $465 million in cash to non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $54 million in cash to multi-employer plans. The cash contributions to multi-employer plans represent the annual cost included in net periodic (income)/cost recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The companys participation in multi-employer plans has no material impact on the companys financial statements. In 2016, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans. However, depending on market conditions, or other factors, the company may elect to make discretionary contributions to the Qualified PPP during the year. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act), enacted into law in 2006, is a comprehensive reform package that, among other provisions, increases pension funding requirements for certain U.S. defined benefit plans, provides guidelines for measuring pension plan assets and pension obligations for funding purposes and raises tax deduction limits for contributions to retirement-related benefit plans. The additional funding requirements by the Act apply to plan years beginning after December 31, 2007. The Act was updated by the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, which revised the funding requirements in the Act by clarifying that pension plans may smooth the value of pension plans over 24 months. At December 31, 2015, no mandatory contribution was required for 2016. In 2016, the company estimates contributions to its non-U.S. defined benefit and multi-employer plans to be approximately $500 million, the largest of which will be contributed to defined benefit pension plans in the UK, Japan and Spain. This amount represents the legally mandated minimum contributions. Financial market performance in 2016 could increase the legally mandated minimum contribution in certain countries which require monthly or daily remeasurement of the funded status. The company could also elect to contribute more than the legally mandated amount based on market conditions or other factors. 139 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Defined Contribution Plans The company contributed $1,117 million and $1,239 million in cash to the defined contribution plans during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. In 2016, the company estimates cash contributions to the defined contribution plans to be approximately $1.1 billion. Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans The company contributed $408 million and $144 million to the nonpension postretirement benefit plans during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The $408 million contribution consisted of $328 million in cash and $80 million in marketable securities in the form of U.S. Treasury securities. The contribution of marketable securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. These contribution amounts exclude the Medicare-related subsidy discussed on page 141. Expected Benefit Payments Defined Benefit Pension Plan Expected Payments The following table presents the total expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants. These payments have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the plans PBO at December 31, 2015 and include benefits attributable to estimated future compensation increases, where applicable. ($ in millions) Total Qualified Nonqualified Qualified Nonqualified Expected U.S. Plan U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans Benefit Payments Payments Payments Payments Payments 2016 $ 3,513 $ 118 $ 1,756 $ 311 $ 5,698 2017 3,501 118 1,751 306 5,675 2018 3,501 120 1,780 313 5,714 2019 3,496 121 1,814 326 5,757 2020 3,548 122 1,857 341 5,868 20212025 17,279 604 9,855 1,888 29,625 The 2016 expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants not covered by the respective plan assets (underfunded plans) represent a component of compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan Expected Payments The following table reflects the total expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit plan participants. These payments have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the plans APBO at December 31, 2015. ($ in millions) Total Qualified Nonqualified Expected U.S. Plan Non-U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans Benefit Payments Payments Payments Payments 2016 $ 393 $ 5 $ 26 $ 424 2017 399 6 30 434 2018 401 6 33 439 2019 406 7 35 448 2020 401 7 39 447 20212025 1,797 49 240 2,087 The 2016 expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit plan participants not covered by the respective plan assets represent a component of compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 140 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Medicare Prescription Drug Act In connection with the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, the company qualified to receive a federal subsidy through 2013. Due to benefit plan changes effective January 1, 2014, the company did not qualify for the subsidy as of that date. The company received total subsidies of $1 million and $23 million for prescription drug-related coverage during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, to true up the final subsidy amounts due to IBM under the Act. These subsidies were utilized to reduce the company contributions to the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan. Other Plan Information The following table presents information for defined benefit pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) in excess of plan assets. For a more detailed presentation of the funded status of the companys defined benefit pension plans, see the table on page 131. ($ in millions) 2015 2014 Benefit Plan Benefit Plan At December 31: Obligation Assets Obligation Assets Plans with PBO in excess of plan assets $ 29,784 $ 17,677 $ 34,976 $ 21,655 Plans with ABO in excess of plan assets 29,135 17,492 33,148 20,680 Plans with assets in excess of PBO 68,053 69,786 71,501 73,660 NOTE T. SEGMENT INFORMATION The companys major operations consist of five business segments: Global Technology Services, Global Business Services, Software, Systems Hardware and Global Financing. The segments represent components of the company for which separate financial information is available that is utilized on a regular basis by the chief executive officer in determining how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. The segments are determined based on several factors, including client base, homogeneity of products, technology, delivery channels and similar economic characteristics. Information about each segments business and the products and services that generate each segments revenue is located in the Description of Business section on pages 25 to 27, and in Segment Details, on pages 29 to 34 in the Management Discussion. Segment revenue and pre-tax income include transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arms-length, market-based transfer price. Systems and software that are used by Global Technology Services in outsourcing engagements are primarily sourced internally from Systems Hardware and Software. For providing IT services that are used internally, Global Technology Services and Global Business Services recover cost, as well as a reasonable fee, that is intended to reflect the arms-length value of providing the services. The Global Services segments enter into arms-length loans at prices equivalent to market rates with Global Financing to facilitate the acquisition of equipment used in services engagements. All internal transaction prices are reviewed annually, and reset if appropriate. The company utilizes globally integrated support organizations to realize economies of scale and efficient use of resources. As a result, a considerable amount of expense is shared by all of the segments. This shared expense includes sales coverage, certain marketing functions and support functions such as Accounting, Treasury, Procurement, Legal, Human Resources and Billing and Collections. Where practical, shared expenses are allocated based on measurable drivers of expense, e.g., headcount. When a clear and measurable driver cannot be identified, shared expenses are allocated on a financial basis that is consistent with the companys management system, e.g., advertising expense is allocated based on the gross profits of the segments. A portion of the shared expenses, which are recorded in net income, are not allocated to the segments. These expenses are associated with the elimination of internal transactions and other miscellaneous items. 141 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies The following tables reflect the results of continuing operations of the companys segments consistent with the management and measurement system utilized within the company. Performance measurement is based on pre-tax income from continuing operations. These results are used, in part, by senior management, both in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments. In January 2015, the companys business process outsourcing business, Global Process Services, which was previously managed within Global Technology Services, was integrated into Global Business Services, creating an end-to-end business transformation capability for clients and to better leverage the companys industry knowledge. The following tables reflect this reclassification for the prior-year periods. Management System Segment View ($ in millions) Global Services Segments Global Global Technology Business Systems Global Total For the year ended December 31: Services Services Software Hardware Financing Segments 2015 External revenue $ 32,017 $ 17,166 $ 22,932 $ 7,581 $ 1,840 $ 81,535 Internal revenue 823 499 3,267 451 2,637 7,676 Total revenue $ 32,840 $ 17,664 $ 26,199 $ 8,032 $ 4,477 $ 89,211 Pre-tax income from continuing operations $ 5,002 $ 2,634 $ 9,066 $ 604 $ 2,364 $ 19,670 Revenue year-to-year change (9.7 )% (11.9 )% (9.4 )% (24.5 )% (1.0 )% (11.3 )% Pre-tax income year-to-year change (15.7 )% (22.7 )% (15.3 )% NM 8.0 % (11.6 )% Pre-tax income margin 15.2 % 14.9 % 34.6 % 7.5 % 52.8 % 22.0 % 2014* External revenue $ 35,442 $ 19,512 $ 25,434 $ 9,996 $ 2,034 $ 92,418 Internal revenue 934 543 3,496 647 2,488 8,108 Total revenue $ 36,376 $ 20,055 $ 28,931 $ 10,643 $ 4,522 $ 100,527 Pre-tax income from continuing operations $ 5,931 $ 3,408 $ 10,699 $ 34 $ 2,189 $ 22,262 Revenue year-to-year change (1.2 )% (8.5 )% (0.7 )% (21.6 )% 5.1 % (4.9 )% Pre-tax income year-to-year change (10.8 )% (3.9 )% (3.7 )% (84.1 )% 0.8 % (6.0 )% Pre-tax income margin 16.3 % 17.0 % 37.0 % 0.3 % 48.4 % 22.1 % 2013* External revenue $ 35,737 $ 21,210 $ 25,932 $ 12,988 $ 2,022 $ 97,889 Internal revenue 1,063 714 3,191 593 2,282 7,843 Total revenue $ 36,800 $ 21,924 $ 29,123 $ 13,581 $ 4,304 $ 105,732 Pre-tax income from continuing operations $ 6,649 $ 3,548 $ 11,106 $ 213 $ 2,171 $ 23,687 Revenue year-to-year change (4.7 )% (0.8 )% 1.4 % (18.7 )% 5.7 % (4.0 )% Pre-tax income year-to-year change (0.3 )% 8.4 % 2.7 % (88.6 )% 6.8 % (3.9 )% Pre-tax income margin 18.1 % 16.2 % 38.1 % 1.6 % 50.4 % 22.4 % * Reclassified to conform with 2015 presentation. NMNot meaningful 142 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Reconciliations of IBM as Reported ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 Revenue Total reportable segments $ 89,211 $ 100,527 $ 105,732 Other revenue 206 374 478 Elimination of internal transactions (7,676 ) (8,108 ) (7,843 ) Total IBM consolidated revenue $ 81,741 $ 92,793 $ 98,367 ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 Pre-tax income from continuing operations: Total reportable segments $ 19,670 $ 22,262 $ 23,687 Amortization of acquired intangible assets (677 ) (791 ) (758 ) Acquisition-related charges (26 ) (12 ) (46 ) Non-operating retirement- related (costs)/income (1,050 ) (353 ) (1,062 ) Elimination of internal transactions (1,859 ) (1,914 ) (1,480 ) Unallocated corporate amounts* (114 ) 795 (98 ) Total pre-tax income from continuing operations $ 15,945 $ 19,986 $ 20,244 * The 2014 and 2013 amounts include the gain related to the Retail Store Solutions divestiture. The 2014 amount also includes the net gain related to the System x business divestiture. Immaterial Items Investment in Equity Alliances and Equity Alliances Gains/(Losses) The investments in equity alliances and the resulting gains and (losses) from these investments that are attributable to the segments did not have a material effect on the financial position or the financial results of the segments. Segment Assets and Other Items Global Technology Services assets are primarily plant, property and equipment, including the assets associated with the outsourcing business, goodwill, accounts receivable, deferred services arrangement transition costs, maintenance parts inventory and acquired intangible assets. Global Business Services assets are primarily goodwill and accounts receivable. Software assets are mainly goodwill, acquired intangible assets and accounts receivable. Systems Hardware assets are primarily plant, property and equipment, goodwill and manufacturing inventory. Global Financing assets are primarily financing receivables and fixed assets under operating leases. To ensure the efficient use of the companys space and equipment, several segments may share plant, property and equipment assets. Where assets are shared, landlord ownership of the assets is assigned to one segment and is not allocated to each user segment. This is consistent with the companys management system and is reflected accordingly in the table on page 144. In those cases, there will not be a precise correlation between segment pre-tax income and segment assets. Similarly, the depreciation amounts reported by each segment are based on the assigned landlord ownership and may not be consistent with the amounts that are included in the segments pre-tax income. The amounts that are included in pre-tax income reflect occupancy charges from the landlord segment and are not specifically identified by the management reporting system. Capital expenditures that are reported by each segment also are consistent with the landlord ownership basis of asset assignment. Global Financing amounts for interest income and interest expense reflect the interest income and interest expense associated with the Global Financing business, including the intercompany financing activities discussed on page 27, as well as the income from investment in cash and marketable securities. The explanation of the difference between cost of financing and interest expense for segment presentation versus presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings is included on page 72 of the Management Discussion. 143 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Management System Segment View ($ in millions) Global Services Segments Global Global Technology Business Systems Global Total For the year ended December 31: Services Services Software Hardware Financing Segments 2015 Assets $ 16,960 $ 8,327 $ 26,585 $ 3,969 $ 36,157 $ 91,999 Depreciation/amortization of intangibles* 1,811 81 1,071 304 343 3,610 Capital expenditures/investments in intangibles 2,514 86 583 291 356 3,830 Interest income 1,720 1,720 Interest expense 469 469 2014 ** Assets $ 16,209 $ 8,831 $ 25,813 $ 4,235 $ 38,845 $ 93,933 Depreciation/amortization of intangibles* 1,833 98 1,210 712 455 4,308 Capital expenditures/investments in intangibles 2,226 79 534 600 482 3,921 Interest income 1,951 1,951 Interest expense 518 518 2013 ** Assets $ 16,658 $ 9,701 $ 27,101 $ 4,901 $ 40,138 $ 98,499 Depreciation/amortization of intangibles* 1,625 117 1,211 435 574 3,963 Capital expenditures/investments in intangibles 1,889 118 540 395 467 3,410 Interest income 1,904 1,904 Interest expense 405 405 * Segment pre-tax income from continuing operations does not include the amortization of intangible assets. ** Reclassified to conform with 2015 presentation. 144 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Reconciliations of IBM as Reported ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 2013 Assets Total reportable segments $ 91,999 $ 93,933 $ 98,499 Elimination of internal transactions (4,709 ) (5,193 ) (4,740 ) Unallocated amounts Cash and marketable securities 6,634 7,182 9,697 Notes and accounts receivable 2,333 4,253 2,907 Deferred tax assets 4,693 6,465 * 4,030 * Plant, other property and equipment 2,650 2,169 4,827 Pension assets 1,734 2,160 5,551 Other 5,161 6,303 ** 4,869 ** Total IBM consolidated assets $ 110,495 $ 117,271 * ** $ 125,641 * ** * Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on deferred taxes in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. ** Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on debt issuance costs in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. Major Clients No single client represented 10 percent or more of the companys total revenue in 2015, 2014 or 2013. Geographic Information The following provides information for those countries that are 10 percent or more of the specific category. Revenue * ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 United States $ 30,514 $ 32,021 $ 33,427 Other countries 51,227 60,772 64,941 Total IBM consolidated revenue $ 81,741 $ 92,793 $ 98,367 * Revenues are attributed to countries based on the location of the client. Plant and Other PropertyNet ($ in millions) At December 31: 2015 2014 2013 United States $ 4,644 $ 4,388 $ 6,723 Other countries 5,532 5,690 6,257 Total $ 10,176 $ 10,078 $ 12,979 145 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Revenue by Classes of Similar Products or Services The following table presents external revenue for similar classes of products or services within the companys reportable segments. Within Global Technology Services and Global Business Services, client solutions often include IBM software and systems and other suppliers products if the client solution requires it. Within Software, product license charges and ongoing subscription and support are reported as Software; Software-as-a-Service, consulting, education, training and other product-related services are reported as Services; and appliances are reported as Systems. ($ in millions) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014* 2013* Global Technology Services Services $ 24,575 $ 27,130 $ 27,144 Maintenance 6,132 6,853 7,111 Systems 1,177 1,294 1,322 Software 132 164 158 Global Business Services Services $ 16,851 $ 19,202 $ 20,874 Software 164 186 227 Systems 151 124 109 Software Software $ 20,080 $ 22,722 $ 23,420 Services 2,718 2,657 2,500 Systems 134 55 12 Systems Hardware Servers $ 5,223 $ 7,320 $ 9,946 Storage 2,358 2,676 3,041 Global Financing Financing $ 1,386 $ 1,543 $ 1,493 Used equipment sales 454 491 529 * Reclassified to conform with 2015 presentation. NOTE U. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On January 26, 2016, the company announced that the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $1.30 per common share. The dividend is payable March 10, 2016 to shareholders of record on February 10, 2016. On February 16, 2016, the company issued $5.0 billion in bonds as follows: $900 million of 18-month floating-rate bonds priced at LIBOR plus 45 basis points, $1.2 billion of 3-year fixed-rate bonds with a 1.8 percent coupon, $900 million of 5-year fixed-rate bonds with a 2.25 percent coupon, $1.35 billion of 10-year fixed-rate bonds with a 3.45 percent coupon and $650 million of 30-year fixed-rate bonds with a 4.7 percent coupon. On February 18, 2016, the Japan Supreme Court declined to hear the appeal of the Tokyo High Court ruling related to the determination of certain foreign tax losses incurred by the company. The Tokyo High Court judgment, in favor of the company, is now final. See Note N, Taxes, on page 122 for additional information on this matter. The company will discuss the impact of this decision as part of its first quarter 2016 earnings in April 2016. 146 Five-Year Comparison of Selected Financial Data International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions except per share amounts) For the year ended December 31: 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Revenue $ 81,741 $ 92,793 $ 98,367 $ 102,874 $ 105,056 Income from continuing operations $ 13,364 $ 15,751 $ 16,881 $ 16,999 $ 16,108 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (174 ) $ (3,729 ) $ (398 ) $ (395 ) $ (253 ) Net income $ 13,190 $ 12,022 $ 16,483 $ 16,604 $ 15,855 Operating (non-GAAP) earnings* $ 14,659 $ 16,702 $ 18,356 $ 18,022 $ 16,571 Earnings/(loss) per share of common stock: Assuming dilution: Continuing operations $ 13.60 $ 15.59 $ 15.30 $ 14.71 $ 13.27 Discontinued operations $ (0.18 ) $ (3.69 ) $ (0.36 ) $ (0.34 ) $ (0.21 ) Total $ 13.42 $ 11.90 $ 14.94 $ 14.37 $ 13.06 Basic: Continuing operations $ 13.66 $ 15.68 $ 15.42 $ 14.88 $ 13.46 Discontinued operations $ (0.18 ) $ (3.71 ) $ (0.36 ) $ (0.35 ) $ (0.21 ) Total $ 13.48 $ 11.97 $ 15.06 $ 14.53 $ 13.25 Diluted operating (non-GAAP)* $ 14.92 $ 16.53 $ 16.64 $ 15.60 $ 13.65 Cash dividends paid on common stock $ 4,897 $ 4,265 $ 4,058 $ 3,773 $ 3,473 Per share of common stock 5.00 4.25 3.70 3.30 2.90 Investment in property, plant and equipment $ 3,579 $ 3,740 $ 3,623 $ 4,082 $ 4,108 Return on IBM stockholders equity 101.1 % 72.5 % 83.8 % 81.6 % 71.2 % At December 31: 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total assets $ 110,495 $ 117,271 ** + $ 125,641 ** + $ 118,965 ** + $ 116,128 ** + Net investment in property, plant and equipment $ 10,727 $ 10,771 $ 13,821 $ 13,996 $ 13,883 Working capital $ 8,235 $ 7,797 ** $ 9,610 ** $ 4,413 ** $ 7,347 ** Total debt $ 39,890 $ 40,722 + $ 39,637 + $ 33,209 + $ 31,265 + Total equity $ 14,424 $ 12,014 $ 22,929 $ 18,984 $ 20,236 * Refer to the GAAP Reconciliation, on pages 63 and 151 of the companys 2014 Annual Report for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Also see GAAP Reconciliation, on pages 41 and 59 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for 2015, 2014 and 2013. ** Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on deferred taxes in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. + Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on debt issuance costs in consolidated financial statements. Refer to note B, Accounting Changes, for additional information. 147 Selected Quarterly Data International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies ($ in millions except per share amounts and stock prices) 2015 First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Full Year Revenue $ 19,590 $ 20,813 $ 19,280 $ 22,059 $ 81,741 Gross profit $ 9,452 $ 10,390 $ 9,436 $ 11,407 $ 40,684 Income from continuing operations $ 2,415 $ 3,526 $ 2,962 $ 4,460 $ 13,364 Income/(loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (88 ) $ (77 ) $ (12 ) $ 3 $ (174 ) Net income $ 2,328 $ 3,449 $ 2,950 $ 4,463 $ 13,190 Operating (non-GAAP) earnings*** $ 2,890 $ 3,790 $ 3,272 $ 4,707 $ 14,659 Earnings per share of common stock* Assuming dilution: Continuing operations $ 2.44 $ 3.58 $ 3.02 $ 4.59 $ 13.60 Discontinued operations $ (0.09 ) $ (0.08 ) $ (0.01 ) $ 0.00 $ (0.18 ) Total $ 2.35 $ 3.50 $ 3.01 $ 4.59 $ 13.42 Basic: Continuing operations $ 2.45 $ 3.59 $ 3.04 $ 4.60 $ 13.66 Discontinued operations $ (0.09 ) $ (0.08 ) $ (0.01 ) $ 0.00 $ (0.18 ) Total $ 2.36 $ 3.51 $ 3.03 $ 4.60 $ 13.48 Diluted operating (non-GAAP)*** $ 2.91 $ 3.84 $ 3.34 $ 4.84 $ 14.92 Dividends per share of common stock $ 1.10 $ 1.30 $ 1.30 $ 1.30 $ 5.00 Stock prices ++ High $ 164.83 $ 174.40 $ 173.22 $ 152.39 Low $ 151.55 $ 159.18 $ 140.96 $ 131.75 ($ in millions except per share amounts and stock prices) 2014 First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Full Year Revenue $ 22,236 $ 24,047 $ 22,397 $ 24,113 $ 92,793 Gross profit $ 10,627 $ 12,044 $ 10,874 $ 12,862 $ 46,407 Income from continuing operations $ 2,530 $ 4,251 $ 3,455 $ 5,515 $ 15,751 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (146 ) $ (115 ) $ (3,437 ) $ (31 ) $ (3,729 ) Net income $ 2,384 $ 4,137 $ 18 $ 5,484 $ 12,022 Operating (non-GAAP) earnings*** $ 2,790 $ 4,456 $ 3,671 $ 5,785 $ 16,702 Earnings per share of common stock* Assuming dilution: Continuing operations $ 2.43 $ 4.23 $ 3.46 $ 5.54 $ 15.59 Discontinued operations $ (0.14 ) $ (0.11 ) $ (3.44 ) $ (0.03 ) $ (3.69 ) Total $ 2.29 $ 4.12 $ 0.02 $ 5.51 $ 11.90 Basic: Continuing operations $ 2.44 $ 4.25 $ 3.48 $ 5.57 $ 15.68 Discontinued operations $ (0.14 ) $ (0.11 ) $ (3.46 ) $ (0.03 ) $ (3.71 ) Total $ 2.30 $ 4.14 $ 0.02 $ 5.54 $ 11.97 Diluted operating (non-GAAP)*** $ 2.68 $ 4.43 $ 3.68 $ 5.81 $ 16.53 Dividends per share of common stock $ 0.95 $ 1.10 $ 1.10 $ 1.10 $ 4.25 Stock prices++ High $ 195.63 $ 199.21 $ 196.40 $ 190.89 Low $ 172.19 $ 179.27 $ 181.70 $ 150.50 * Earnings Per Share (EPS) in each quarter is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during that quarter while EPS for the full year is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year. Thus, the sum of the four quarters EPS does not equal the full-year EPS. ++ The stock prices reflect the high and low prices for IBMs common stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape for the periods presented. *** Refer to page 70 of the companys first-quarter 2015 Form 10-Q filed on April 28, 2015, page 85 of the companys second-quarter 2015 Form 10-Q filed on July 28, 2015, page 87 of the companys third-quarter 2015 Form 10-Q filed on October 27, 2015, and page 48 under the heading GAAP Reconciliation, for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for the quarterly periods of 2015 and 2014. Also see GAAP Reconciliation, on pages 41 and 42 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for full year 2015 and 2014. 148 Performance Graph International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN FOR IBM, S&P 500 STOCK INDEX AND S&P INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INDEX The following graph compares the five-year cumulative total returns for IBM common stock with the comparable cumulative return of certain Standard & Poors (S&P) indices. Due to the fact that IBM is a company included in the S&P 500 Stock Index, the SECs rules require the use of that index. Under those rules, the second index used for comparison may be a published industry or line-of-business index. The S&P Information Technology Index is such an index. IBM is also included in this index. The graph assumes $100 invested on December 31 (of the initial year shown in the graph) in IBM common stock and $100 invested on the same date in each of the S&P indices. The comparisons assume that all dividends are reinvested. (U.S. Dollar) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 IBM Common Stock $ 100.00 $ 127.42 $ 134.98 $ 134.73 $ 118.04 $ 104.57 S & P 500 Index 100.00 102.11 118.45 156.82 178.29 180.75 S & P Information Technology Index 100.00 102.41 117.59 151.03 181.40 192.15 149 Board of Directors and Senior Leadership International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies BOARD OF DIRECTORS Alain J.P. Belda* Mark Fields** James W. Owens Managing Director President and Chief Executive Officer Retired Chairman and Warburg Pincus LLC Ford Motor Company Chief Executive Officer Caterpillar Inc. William R. Brody* Alex Gorsky Retired President Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Virginia M. Rometty Salk Institute for Biological Studies Johnson & Johnson Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault Shirley Ann Jackson IBM Chairman and Chief Executive Officer President American Express Company Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Joan E. Spero Adjunct Senior Research Scholar Michael L. Eskew Andrew N. Liveris Columbia University School of Retired Chairman and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer International and Public Affairs Chief Executive Officer The Dow Chemical Company United Parcel Service, Inc. Sidney Taurel W. James McNerney, Jr. Chairman David N. Farr Chairman and Retired Chief Pearson plc Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Executive Officer Emerson Electric Co. The Boeing Company Peter R. Voser Chairman Hutham S. Olayan ABB Ltd. Principal, Director and Senior Executive The Olayan Group SENIOR LEADERSHIP Colleen F. Arnold*** Martin Jetter Robert J. Picciano Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President IBM Sales and Distribution IBM Global Technology Services IBM Data and Analytics Platforms Simon J. Beaumont James J. Kavanaugh Michael D. Rhodin Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Tax and Treasurer Transformation and Operations IBM Watson Business Development Michelle H. Browdy John E. Kelly III Virginia M. Rometty Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Chairman, President and Legal and Regulatory Affairs, IBM Cognitive Solutions and IBM Chief Executive Officer and General Counsel Research Thomas W. Rosamilia Erich Clementi Kenneth M. Keverian Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President IBM Systems IBM Sales and Distribution Corporate Strategy Martin J. Schroeter Bruno V. Di Leo Allen Arvind Krishna Senior Vice President and Senior Vice President Senior Vice President and Director Chief Financial Officer IBM Sales and Distribution IBM Research Stanley J. Sutula III Diane J. Gherson Robert J. LeBlanc Vice President and Controller Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Human Resources IBM Cloud Bridget A. van Kralingen Senior Vice President Jon C. Iwata Christina M. Montgomery IBM Global Business Services Senior Vice President Vice President Marketing and Communications Assistant General Counsel and Secretary * Term on the Board ends on April 26, 2016 **Effective on the Board on March 1, 2016 *** Retiring from the company on March 31, 2016 150 Stockholder Information International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies IBM Stockholder Services Stockholders with questions about their accounts should contact: Computershare Trust Company, N.A., P.O. Box 43078, Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3078 (888) IBM-6700 Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727. Stockholders can also reach Computershare Trust Company, N.A. via e-mail at: ibm@computershare.com Hearing-impaired stockholders with access to a telecommunications device (TDD) can communicate directly with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., by calling (800) 490-1493. Stockholders residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2694. IBM on the Internet Topics featured in this Annual Report can be found on the IBM home page on the Internet (www.ibm.com). Financial results, news on IBM products, services and other activities can also be found at that address. IBM files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any other filings required by the SEC. IBMs website (www.ibm.com) contains a significant amount of information about IBM, including the companys annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC (www.ibm.com/investor). These materials are available free of charge on or through our website. The public may read and copy any materials the company files with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. IBM Investor Services Program The Investor Services Program brochure outlines a number of services provided for IBM stockholders and potential IBM investors, including the reinvestment of dividends, direct purchase and the deposit of IBM stock certificates for safekeeping. Call (888) IBM-6700 for a copy of the brochure. Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727. Investors with other requests may write to: IBM Stockholder Relations, New Orchard Road, M/D 325, Armonk, New York 10504 IBM Stock IBM common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Chicago Stock Exchange, and outside the United States. Stockholder Communications Stockholders can get quarterly financial results, a summary of the Annual Meeting remarks, and voting results from the meeting by calling (914) 499-7777, by sending an e-mail to infoibm@us.ibm.com, or by writing to International Business Machines Corporation, New Orchard Road, M/D 325, Armonk, New York 10504. Annual Meeting The IBM Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on Tuesday, April 26, 2016, at 10 a.m. in the Savannah International Trade & Convention Center, Savannah, Georgia. Literature for IBM Stockholders The literature mentioned below on IBM is available without charge from: Computershare Trust Company, N.A., P.O. Box 43078, Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3078 (888) IBM-6700 Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727. The companys annual report on Form 10-K and the quarterly reports on Form 10-Q provide additional information on IBMs business. The 10-K report is released by the end of February; 10-Q reports are released by early May, August and November. An audio recording of the 2015 Annual Report will be available for sight-impaired stockholders in June 2016. The IBM Corporate Responsibility Report highlights IBMs values and its integrated approach to corporate responsibility, including its innovative strategies to transforming communities through global citizenship. The full Corporate Responsibility Report is available online at www.ibm.com/responsibility. It is also available in printed form by downloading the report at www.ibm.com/responsibility. General Information Stockholders of record can receive online account information and answers to frequently asked questions regarding stockholder accounts on the Internet (www.ibm.com/investor). Stockholders of record can also consent to receive future IBM Annual Reports and Proxy Statements online through this site. For answers to general questions about IBM from within the continental United States, call (800) IBM-4YOU. From outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico, call (914) 499-1900. 151 International Business Machines Corporation New Orchard Road, Armonk, New York 10504 (914) 499-1900 AlchemyAPI, Aspera, Blekko, Blue Box, Bluemix, Clearleap, Cloudant, Daeja, Explorys, Fiberlink, FlashSystem, Gravitant, IBM, IBM Watson, ILOG, Kenexa, OpenPOWER, Phytel, POWER, POWER8, Power Systems, Rational, Silverpop, Smarter Commerce, SoftLayer, Star Analytics, StoredIQ, StrongLoop, System z, Tivoli, Trusteer, UrbanCode, Ustream, Watson, WebSphere, Xtify, z13 and z Systems are trademarks or registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation or its wholly owned subsidiaries. Apple is a registered trademark of Apple, Inc. in the United States, other countries, or both. GLOBALFOUNDRIES is a registered trademark of GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. Jeopardy! is a registered trademark of Jeopardy Productions, Inc. Lenovo is a trademark of Lenovo Group Limited in the United States, other countries, or both. Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States, other countries, or both. SAP is a registered trademark of SAP SE in Germany and other countries. UNIX is a registered trademark of the Open Group in the United States and other countries. Other company, product and service names may be trademarks or service marks of others. The IBM Annual Report is printed on recycled paper and is recyclable. Printed in the U.S.A. COL03002-USEN-06 Design: VSA Partners, Inc. Printing: RR Donnelley EX-21 9 a2226548zex-21.htm EX-21 QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document EXHIBIT 21 INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES Subsidiariesas of December 31, 2015 IBM Argentina Sociedad de Responsabilidad Limitada Argentina 100 IBM Australia Limited Australia 100 IBM Global Financing Australia Limited Australia 100 IBM Oesterreich Internationale Bueromaschinen Gesellschaft m.b.H. Austria 100 IBM Bahamas Limited Bahamas 100 IBM Bahrain SPC Bahrain 100 IBM Bangladesh Private Limited Bangladesh 100 IBM Foreign Sales Corporation Barbados 100 International Business Machines of Belgium sprl/buba Belgium 100 WTC Insurance Corporation, Ltd. Bermuda 100 IBM BrasilIndustria, Maquinas e Servicos Limitada Brazil 100 Banco IBM S.A. Brazil 100 IBM Bulgaria Ltd. Bulgaria 100 IBM Burkina Faso SARL Burkina Faso 100 IBM Canada LimitedIBM Canada Limitee Canada 100 IBM Tchad SARLU Chad 100 IBM de Chile S.A.C. Chile 100 IBM (China) Investment Company Limited China (P.R.C.) 100 IBM (China) Co., Ltd. China (P.R.C.) 100 IBM de Colombia & C.I.A. S.C.A. Colombia 100 IBM Congo SARL Congo 100 IBM RDC Congo Republic 100 IBM Business Transformation Center, S.r.l. Costa Rica 100 IBM Croatia Ltd./IBM Hrvatska d.o.o. Croatia 100 IBM Ceska Republika spol. s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 IBM Danmark ApS Denmark 100 IBM del Ecuador, C.A. Ecuador 100 IBM Egypt Business Support Services Egypt 100 IBM Eesti Osauhing (IBM Estonia Ou) Estonia 100 Oy IBM Finland AB Finland 100 Compagnie IBM France, S.A.S. France 100 IBM France Financement, S.A. France 100 International Business Machines Gabon SARL Gabon 100 IBM Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 IBM Deutschland Kreditbank GmbH Germany 100 International Business Machines Ghana Limited Ghana 100 IBM Hellas Information Handling Systems S.A. Greece 100 IBM China/Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100 IBM Magyarorszagi Kft. Hungary 100 IBM India Private Limited India 100 PT IBM Indonesia Indonesia 100 IBM Ireland Limited Ireland 100 IBM Ireland Product Distribution Limited Ireland 100 IBM Israel Limited Israel 100 IBM Italia S.p.A. Italy 100 IBM Japan, Ltd. Japan 100 IBM East Africa Limited Kenya 100 IBM Korea, Inc. Korea (South) 100 IBM Kuwait SPC Kuwait 100 Sabiedriba ar irobezotu atbildibu IBM Latvija Latvia 100 IBM Lietuva Lithuania 100 IBM Services Financial Sector Luxembourg Sarl Luxembourg 100 International Business Machines Madagascar SARLU Madagascar 100 International Information Services Management Limited Malawi 100 IBM Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 IBM Malta Limited Malta 100 IBM Mauritius Mauritius 100 IBM de Mexico, S. de R.L. Mexico 100 IBM de Mexico, Comercializacion y Servicios S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico 100 IBM Maroc Morocco 100 IBM International Group B.V. Netherlands 100 IBM Nederland B.V. Netherlands 100 IBM New Zealand Limited New Zealand 100 IBM Niger SARLU Niger 100 International Business Machines West Africa Limited Nigeria 100 International Business Machines AS Norway 100 IBM del Peru, S.A. Peru 100 IBM Philippines, Incorporated Philippines 100 IBM Polska Sp.z.o.o. Poland 100 Companhia IBM Portuguesa, S.A. Portugal 100 IBM Qatar SSC Qatar 100 IBM Romania Srl Romania 100 IBM East Europe/Asia Ltd. Russia 100 International Business Machines Senegal Senegal 100 IBMInternational Business Machines d.o.o., Belgrade Serbia 100 International Information Services Management Limited Seychelles 100 IBM Limited Sierra Leone 100 IBM Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100 IBM Slovensko spol s.r.o. Slovak Republic 100 IBM Slovenija d.o.o. Slovenia 100 IBM South Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Africa 100 International Business Machines, S.A. Spain 100 IBM Svenska Aktiebolag Sweden 100 IBM Schweiz AGIBM Suisse SAIBM Suizzera SAIBM Switzerland Ltd. Switzerland 100 IBM Taiwan Corporation Taiwan 100 IBM Tanzania Limited Tanzania 100 IBM Thailand Company Limited Thailand 100 IBM Tunisie Tunisia 100 IBM (International Business Machines) Turk Limited Sirketi Turkey 100 Technology Products and Services Limited Uganda 100 IBM Ukraine Ukraine 100 IBM Middle East FZLLC United Arab Emirates 100 IBM United Kingdom Limited United Kingdom 100 IBM United Kingdom Asset Leasing Limited United Kingdom 100 IBM United Kingdom Financial Services Limited United Kingdom 100 IBM del Uruguay, S.A. Uruguay 100 IBM Capital Inc. USA (Delaware) 100 IBM Credit LLC USA (Delaware) 100 IBM International Group Capital LLC USA (Delaware) 100 IBM International Foundation USA (Delaware) 100 IBM World Trade Corporation USA (Delaware) 100 IBM de Venezuela, S.A. Venezuela 100 IBM Vietnam Company Vietnam 100 International Business Machines Zambia Limited Zambia 100 QuickLinks EXHIBIT 21 INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES EX-23.1 10 a2226548zex-23_1.htm EX-23.1 QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document Exhibit 23.1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 2-77235, 33-29022, 33-33458, 33-34406, 33-53777, 33-60225, 33-60227, 33-60237, 33-60815, 333-01411, 33-52931, 33-33590, 333-76914, 333-87708, 333-09055, 333-23315, 333-31305, 333-41813, 333-44981, 333-48435, 333-81157, 333-87751, 333-87859, 333-87925, 333-30424, 333-33692, 333-36510, 333-102872, 333-102870, 333-103471, 333-104806, 333-114190, 333-131934, 333-138326, 333-138327, 333-148964, 333-170559 and 333-171968, 333-76914 and 333-196722) and the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 33-49475(1), 33-31732, 333-03763, 333-27669, 333-32690, 333-101034, 333-190160 and 333-190160-01) of International Business Machines Corporation of our report dated February 23, 2016, relating to the consolidated financial statements and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2015 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 23, 2016, relating to the Financial Statement Schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K. /s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP New York, New York February 23, 2016 QuickLinks Exhibit 23.1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM EX-24.1 11 a2226548zex-24_1.htm EX-24.1 Exhibit 24.1 POWER OF ATTORNEY OF VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ Virginia M. Rometty Virginia M. Rometty Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer POWER OF ATTORNEY OF MARTIN J. SCHROETER KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ Martin J. Schroeter Martin J. Schroeter Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer POWER OF ATTORNEY OF STANLEY J. SUTULA, III KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Vice President and Controller of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ Stanley J. Sutula III Stanley J. Sutula III Vice President and Controller POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ Alain J.P. Belda Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ William R. Brody Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ Kenneth I. Chenault Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ Michael L. Eskew Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ David N. Farr Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ Alex Gorsky Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ Shirely Ann Jackson Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ Andrew N. Liveris Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ W. James McNerney, Jr. Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ Hutham S. Olayan Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ James W. Owens Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ Sidney Taurel Director POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2015 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, Martin J. Schroeter and Stanley J. Sutula III, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 23 rd day of February 2016. /s/ Peter R. Voser Director EX-24.2 12 a2226548zex-24_2.htm EX-24.2 Exhibit 24.2 RESOLUTION REGARDING FILING OF THE COMPANYS 2015 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K RESOLVED, that the Companys 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K be, and hereby is, approved and that the Officers of the Company be, and they hereby are, authorized and empowered to execute by powers of attorney the Form 10-K and to make such additions, supplements and changes thereto as in their opinion may be necessary or desirable and to cause such material to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and other appropriate regulatory agencies. EX-31.1 13 a2226548zex-31_1.htm EX-31.1 QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document Exhibit 31.1 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(a)/15D-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 I, Virginia M. Rometty, certify that: 1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Business Machines Corporation; 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 4. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure