Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment decision. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could materiallyadversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In such an event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and the market price of our Class A common stock. Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: We have a history of net losses, we anticipate increasing expenses in the future, and we may not be profitable. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected if we do not renew, maintain, and expand our relationships with existing publishers and add new publishers to the Ibotta Performance Network (IPN), or if our publishers experience (as they have previously) downturns, store closures, or failures of their own businesses, or fail to adopt our additional offerings or fulfillment methods. We are also dependent on our publishers to take steps to integrate with the IPN and to maximize and encourage offer redemption, including decisions relating to user experience and design, marketing, and proper maintenance of their technology. If we fail to maintain or grow offer supply and redemptions on our network, our revenues and business may be negatively affected. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected if we do not renew, maintain, and expand our relationships with CPG brands or add new CPG brands. We may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate. We provide content to publishers indirectly through technology partners and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected if we do not renew, maintain, and expand our relationships with those partners. We expect a number of factors to cause our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Macroeconomic conditions, including slower growth or a recession and supply chain disruptions, have previously affected and could continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Competition presents an ongoing threat to the success of our business. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected if we do not renew, maintain, and expand our relationships with retailers. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history and operate in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We are making substantial investments to capitalize on new and unproven business opportunities and expect to increase such investments in the future. These initiatives are risky, and we may never realize any expected benefits from them. We are making substantial investments in our technologies, and if we do not continue to innovate and further develop our platform, our platform developments do not perform, or we are not able to keep pace with technological developments, we may not remain competitive, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. If our security measures or information we collect and maintain are compromised or publicly exposed, publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers may curtail or stop using our platform, and we could be subject to claims, penalties, and fines. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting and if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls or if we identify additional material weaknesses in the future, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial condition or results of operations, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. The dual class stock structure of our common stock concentrates voting control with Bryan Leach, our Founder, Chief Executive Officer, President, and Chairman of our board of directors, which will generally preclude our stockholders ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, subject to limited exceptions. We have adopted a Share Repurchase Program to purchase up to an aggregate of $100 million of the Companys Class A common stock; however, any future decisions to reduce or discontinue repurchasing our Class A common stock pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Although we do not expect to rely on the controlled company exemption under the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, we expect to have the right to use such exemption, and therefore we could in the future avail ourselves of certain reduced corporate governance requirements. Risks Related to our Business We have a history of net losses, we anticipate increasing expenses in the future, and we may not be profitable. We have a history of net losses, and we may not be profitable. For example, we incurred a net loss of $54.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, and as of December 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $140.4 million. We expect our costs will increase over time as we expect to invest significant additional funds towards growing our business and operating as a public company. See the risk factor below titled, Operating and growing our business may require additional capital, and if capital is not available to us, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may suffer. We have expended and expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on developing our platform, including expanding our solutions, developing or acquiring new platform features and solutions, and increasing our sales and marketing efforts. These efforts may be more costly than we expect and may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. Any failure to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with our investments and other expenses could prevent us from achieving profitability or positive cash flow on a consistent basis. If we are unable to successfully address 21 Table of Contents these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to maintain profitability is impacted by growth in our network and our ability to drive operational efficiencies in our business. Our efforts to maintain profitability may not succeed due to factors such as evolving consumer behavior trends in shopping, consumer engagement, and retention; our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers; our ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel; unfavorable macroeconomic conditions (such as inflationary pressures); our ability to effectively scale our operations; and the continuing evolution of the industry. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our ability to maintain profitability also depends on our ability to manage our costs. We have expended and expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources to: increase the engagement of consumers and investment levels of publishers, CPG brands, and retailers; increase the number and variety of publishers that participate in the IPN; grow our sales force, which we expect will increase our sales and marketing expense in the foreseeable future; negotiate favorable revenue sharing terms or financial guarantees with publishers; drive adoption of Ibotta through marketing and incentives and increase awareness through brand campaigns; and invest in our operations to continue scaling our business to achieve and sustain long-term efficiencies. These investments may contribute to net losses in the near term. We may discover that these initiatives are more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these expenses or realize the benefits we anticipate. Certain initiatives will also require incremental investments or recurring expenses and may not be accretive to revenue growth, margin, or profitability for a longer time period, if at all. Many of our efforts to increase revenue and manage operating costs are new and unproven given the unique and evolving complexities of our business and the evolving nature of the industry. In addition, we may make concessions to publishers, CPG brands, and retailers that are designed to maximize profitability in the long term but may decrease profitability in the short term. As a result, the impact of concessions on our financial results may continue into future periods or have greater impacts than we anticipate. We may also incur higher operating expenses as we implement strategic initiatives, including in response to external pressures such as competition, retailer consolidation, and evolving consumer behavior trends in shopping. For example, we expect that sales operating expenses will increase for the foreseeable future, primarily stemming from increased headcount. Additionally, we may not realize, or there may be limits to, the efficiencies we expect to achieve through our efforts to scale the business, reduce friction in the direct-to-consumer (D2C) shopping experience, client support, and consumer acquisition and onboarding costs. Our efforts to encourage the growth of loyalty programs on publishers apps and websites may cause fewer consumers to use our D2C properties, leading to a loss of revenue and adversely affecting our financial position. We also expect to continue to face greater compliance costs associated with the increased scope of our business and being a public company. We may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other factors, including as we expand our business, execute on strategic initiatives, and navigate macroeconomic uncertainty, which may result in losses or a failure to generate profitable growth in future periods. 22 Table of Contents As such, due to these factors and others described in the Risk Factors section, including the risk factor titled, We may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate, we may not be able to maintain profitability or generate profitable growth in the future. If we are unable to maintain profitability, the value of our business and the trading price of our Class A common stock could be materially adversely affected. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected if we do not renew, maintain, and expand our relationships with existing publishers and add new publishers to the IPN, or if our publishers experience (as they have previously) downturns, store closures, or failures of their own businesses, or fail to adopt our additional offerings or fulfillment methods. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected if we do not renew, maintain, and expand our relationships with existing publishers and add new publishers to the IPN. We provide offers on a white-label basis to our publishers, including but not limited to, Walmart Inc. (Walmart), Dollar General Corporation (Dollar General), Family Dollar Stores LLC (Family Dollar), Maplebear Inc. (Instacart), and DoorDash, Inc. (announced in January 2025 but not yet launched). We have invested heavily in the IPN, which matches and distributes offers across a variety of publisher sites. Our contract negotiation process with publishers can be lengthy, which can contribute to variability in our revenue generation and makes our revenue difficult to forecast. As a result, it is difficult to predict our ability to form new partnerships with publishers, and our revenue could be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We match and distribute our digital offers through large retailer publishers, grocery retailers, and our D2C properties. If we do not renew, maintain, and expand these relationships or add new publishers, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We rely heavily on our publishers to match and distribute our digital promotions content, with a substantial portion of our white-label redemptions originating from offer selections on their websites and mobile applications. In particular, the Walmart Program Agreement we entered into with Walmart on May 17, 2021 (Walmart Program Agreement) is a multi-year arrangement and automatically renews for successive 24 month periods unless either party provides notice of termination at least 180 days prior to the expiration of the applicable period. The Walmart Program Agreement can be terminated by Walmart with at least 270 days notice to us (provided that Walmart cannot replace us during the then-remaining term of the Walmart Program Agreement with a digital offers program created by Walmart or a third party), and may be terminated under certain circumstances, including for material breach by either party. If Walmart terminated or elected not to renew the Walmart Program Agreement with us, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Publishers may also ask to modify their agreement terms in a cost-prohibitive or strategically detrimental manner when their agreements are up for renewal. Our inability to maintain our relationships with our publishers on terms consistent with or better than those already in place and that are otherwise favorable to us could increase competitive pressure and/or offering pricing, and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. For example, a publisher could ask Ibotta to develop new digital offer structures not covered in the initial agreement when negotiating a contract renewal. Ibotta may not otherwise have those new offer structures on its product roadmap but may need to prioritize that work in order to retain the business, which could result in increased costs if, for example, Ibotta increases its hiring to meet such publisher expectations or could result in trade-offs against other items on Ibottas product roadmap. Retailer consolidation may also result in a decrease in or cessation of engagement with Ibotta, or result in Ibotta receiving less favorable contract terms with the consolidated entity. Publishers have and could in the future experience downturns, store closures, or failures (including due to macroeconomic pressures) of their own businesses, fail to adopt our additional offerings or fulfillment methods, or cease using Ibotta altogether for many reasons. 23 Table of Contents We are also dependent on our publishers to take steps to integrate with the IPN and to maximize and encourage offer redemption, including decisions relating to user experience and design, marketing, and proper maintenance of their technology. We are dependent on publishers to integrate with the IPN since publishers have a significant amount of control over their integration to the IPN, including their user experience and marketing. We are also dependent on publishers timelines, and the amount of time, effort, and support they provide to implement the IPN and to maintain their technology to support the IPN after integration, all of which can vary for each publisher. Certain decisions by publishers could result in an unsuccessful integration of a publisher to the IPN, lower user experience, or delay the addition of a publisher to the IPN, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We are also highly dependent on our publishers efforts to promote their loyalty programs and decisions they make relating to their loyalty programs, and we have limited ability, if any, to control and predict such decisions by publishers. We cannot control, and in many cases cannot predict, the timing of various publisher initiatives, such as the marketing of their loyalty programs, which may have an outsized impact on the number of redemptions occurring on their properties and on our network. For example, a failure of publishers to increase awareness and usage of offers on their loyalty programs could result in a reduced number of redemptions on our network. If we fail to maintain or grow offer supply and redemptions on our network, our revenues and business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Both our redeemers and their level of redemptions are critical to our success. During the year ended December 31, 2024, total redeemers were approximately 14.7 million. For clarity, if one consumer were to redeem on more than one publisher, they would be counted as a redeemer on each publisher. We have in the past experienced fluctuations and declines in the pace of growth of redeemers and could in the future be unable to grow or increase the engagement of our redeemers, and as a result our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In 2024, we did not secure enough offer supply from CPG brands relative to the growth of redeemers across our network. As a result, our redemptions per redeemer were lower than anticipated. If we are unable to maintain and expand the use by consumers of digital promotions in our network or if we do not do so to a greater extent than our competitors, publishers, CPG brands, and retailers may find that offering digital promotions on our network does not reach consumers with the scale and effectiveness that is compelling to them. Any number of factors can negatively affect growth in the number of redeemers, redemptions per redeemer, and redemptions on our network, including if: our publishers, CPG brands, and retailers reduce, suspend, or terminate their relationship with us; we are unable to create a platform that is convenient, rewarding, trustworthy, personalized, and offers the most competitive offers; we are unable to convince consumers of the value of the IPN and publishers of the value of white-label retailer loyalty programs that leverage our offers and technology; our publishers, CPG brands, and retailers do not devote sufficient time, resources, or funds to the promotion of our network and marketing of our digital promotions; CPG brands reduce their investment in offers and offer inventory suffers, which could occur for a variety of reasons, including reduced marketing budgets or supply chain disruptions, which have occurred from time to time with our CPG brands; 24 Table of Contents we are unable to provide a broad range of valuable offers, which may depend on, among other factors, the productivity of our sales force, CPG brand marketing budgets and supply chain constraints, the perceived effectiveness of competitors' platforms, and the macroeconomic environment; we are unable to deliver a user-friendly experience to consumers; consumers increasingly use competitors platforms; consumers have difficulty using our platform as a result of actions by us or third parties; there are concerns over consumer data practices, concerns about the nature of content made available on our products and offerings, or concerns related to privacy, security, or other factors; we are unable to manage and prioritize offers to ensure consumers are presented with offers that are appropriate, interesting, useful, and relevant to them; we adopt terms, policies, or procedures related to areas such as sharing, content, consumer data, or advertising, or we take, or fail to take, actions to enforce our policies, that are perceived negatively by consumers; we undertake initiatives designed to attract and retain consumers, including the use of new technologies such as AIML, that are unsuccessful or discontinued; we fail to provide adequate customer service to our publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers; and we are unable to keep up with the growth of the IPN, which could exhaust CPG brand offers too quickly, diminish the number of available offers, and reduce value for consumers. From time to time, certain of these factors have negatively affected our redeemer and redemption growth. If we are unable to successfully address any of the above factors as we encounter them, or if we are unable to maintain or increase our redeemers and redemptions, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected ifwe do not renew, maintain, and expand our relationships with CPG brands or add new CPG brands. The success and scale of our network depend on our strategic relationships with CPG brands. If we are not able to attract consumers, including through publishers white-label loyalty programs, CPG brands may not be willing to use our network for digital promotions. If we do not renew, maintain, and expand these relationships or add new CPG brands, we may not be able to grow our redemptions and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. If our CPG brands terminate or reduce their relationships with us, or suspend, limit, or cease their operations or otherwise, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. From time to time, our CPG brands have reduced their investments with us. Also, since our contracts with CPG brands are generally less than one year long, there is a risk that CPG brands will not renew their contracts with us, which could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. If our CPG brands choose to materially alter the breadth, depth, or parameters of the offers they provide to us for distribution throughout our network, this could cause unforeseen reductions in the number of redemptions. 25 Table of Contents Further, our revenue may fluctuate due to changes in marketing budgets of CPG brands. CPG brands can change and have changed their spend without notice, which can result in our inability to anticipate or forecast such fluctuations. For example, budget pressures or unspent budgets at the end of a CPG brands fiscal year may lead to unexpected reduced or increased spending on our network. CPG brands and media agencies may also determine that other media tactics are more compelling and divert investment to such tactics, leading to fewer offers. Investment from CPG brands may also fluctuate or cease because of certain macroeconomic factors, like supply chain constraints. For example, in the first half of 2022, our D2C redemptions per redeemer were negatively impacted due to supply chain constraints that made it difficult for our CPG brands to keep their product on shelves and led to decreased promotions on high frequency purchased products. CPG brands may also ask to modify their agreement terms in a cost-prohibitive or strategically detrimental manner when their agreements are up for renewal, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. CPG brand consolidation may also result in a decrease in or cessation of engagement with Ibotta or result in Ibotta receiving less favorable contract terms with the consolidated entity. CPG brands could also experience downturns or fail, including due to macroeconomic pressures or ceasing use of Ibotta altogether for many reasons. CPG brands have traditionally been slow to adopt new digital offer programs. As a result, we have at times experienced, and may continue to experience, slower adoption and implementation of our products and offerings by our current and potential CPG brands. If we lack a sufficient variety and supply of CPG brands or lack access to the most popular CPG brands, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate. Historically, the growth rate of our business, and as a result, our revenue growth, has varied from quarter to quarter and year to year, and we expect that variability to continue. For the year ended December 31, 2024, our revenue was $367.3 million. There can be no assurances that our revenue will grow at current rates and you should not rely on the revenue of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. Our revenue growth rate may decline in future periods. Our revenue may fluctuate due to changes in the marketing budgets of existing and prospective clients, and the timing of their marketing spend. Our growth also depends on our publishers efforts to promote their digital offers programs. Existing and prospective clients can change and have changed their spend without notice, which can result in our inability to anticipate or forecast such fluctuations. Our business is complex and evolving. We may offer new products and technologies, pricing, service models, and delivery methods to existing and prospective clients. These new capabilities may change the way we generate and/or recognize revenue, which could impact our operating results. In addition, if we shift a greater number of our arrangements with publishers, CPG brands, and retailers to new pricing models and we are not able to deliver on the results, our revenue growth and revenue could be negatively affected. We believe that our continued revenue growth will depend on our ability to, among other factors: increase and retain the number of publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers that participate in the IPN; diversify the mix of our redemptions from publishers; increase the degree to which publishers market their white-label retailer loyalty programs; increase our share of advertisers on promotions and media (collectively, marketing spend) through our network; preserve and grow the fees we charge on a per redemption or percentage of total basket basis; 26 Table of Contents preserve and grow our ad products and other business; provide publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers with high-quality support that meets their needs; adapt to changes in marketing goals, strategies, and budgets of advertisers and the timing of their marketing spend; preserve and grow the rate of redemptions by consumers of their digital promotions; preserve or grow our ad products business as well as our data, media, and consumer insights revenue business; expand our business in existing markets and enter new verticals, markets, and geographies; anticipate and respond to macroeconomic changes and changes in the markets in which we operate; adapt to rapidly evolving trends in the ways publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers interact with technology; capitalize on the shift from offline to digital marketing and growth in e-commerce; deploy, execute, and continue to develop our analytics capabilities; expand the number, variety, quality, and relevance of digital promotions available on our network; increase the awareness of our brand to build our reputation; hire, integrate, train, and retain talented personnel; develop a scalable, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently and reliably handle increased usage, as well as the deployment of new features and solutions; identify and acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our products and offerings; effectively manage the scaling of our operations; avoid interruptions or disruptions to our services; and compete successfully with existing and new competitors. If we fail to address the risks and difficulties that we face, including those associated with the challenges listed above, as well as those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. For example, our Ad & other revenue have decreased in 2024 compared to 2023 due to a shift in CPG client spend from Ad & other revenue to redemption revenue. Further, because we operate in a rapidly evolving market, any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in a more predictable market. We have encountered in the past, and will encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies with limited operating histories in rapidly changing industries. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan and operate our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents We provide content to publishers indirectly through technology partners and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected if we do not renew, maintain, and expand our relationships with such technology partners. In some cases, we provide content to publishers indirectly, via technology partners. If any of our technology partners terminate or reduce their relationships with us, or suspend, limit, or cease their operations or otherwise, we will not be able to reach certain publishers and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected if we do not renew, maintain, and expand our relationships with our technology partners. Our ability to deliver offers at-scale is dependent on adding new technology partners and maintaining our existing technology partners. Our contract negotiation process with such technology partners can be lengthy, which can contribute to variability in our revenue generation. As a result, it is difficult to predict our ability to form new partnerships with technology partners and our revenue could be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our technology partners may also ask to modify their agreement terms in a cost-prohibitive or detrimental manner when their agreements are up for renewal. Our inability to maintain our relationships with our technology partners on terms consistent with, or better than, those already in place and that are otherwise favorable to us could increase competitive pressure and/or offering pricing, and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We expect a number of factors to cause our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our results of operations have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that our results of operations will continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to other risk factors described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results include: our ability to attract and retain publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers that use our network and convert their activity into sales; the mix of our redemptions among our publishers; the mix of redemptions among different CPG brands, which have different fee arrangements; our ability to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan expenses; our ability to respond favorably to existing or new competitors in our market; increases in client or publisher concentration; our ability to expand into new CPG brand verticals and new publisher verticals; increases in marketing, sales, and other operating expenses, including those that are incurred to acquire and retain new publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers; the percent of our fee that we share with our publishers; the impact of worldwide economic conditions, including inflation, rising interest rates, changes in the U.S. presidential administration, supply chain disruptions, geopolitical events, such as escalating tariff and non-tariff trade measures imposed by the U.S., Mexico, China, Canada, and 28 Table of Contents other countries, the conflicts involving Russia and Ukraine and Hamas and Israel, and the resulting effect on consumer spending and consumer confidence; the impact of a potential U.S. federal government shutdown on the U.S. economy, capital markets, publishers, CPG brands, retailers, consumers, and our business; the impact of inflation on redemption revenue; the quality and quantity of offers available; our ability to successfully expand our AIML capabilities; fluctuations in transaction costs associated with processing consumer cash outs; evolving fee arrangements with publishers and clients; the seasonality of our business; our ability to maintain an adequate rate of growth and effectively manage that growth; our ability to maintain and increase traffic to our network; the effects of changes in search engine placement and prominence; our ability to keep pace with technology changes in our industry and related privacy regulations; the effects of negative publicity on our business, reputation, or brand; our ability to protect, maintain, and enforce our intellectual property rights; legal expenses, including costs associated with defending claims, including intellectual property infringement claims, and related judgments or settlements; changes in governmental or other regulations affecting our business; interruptions in service, including any cybersecurity breaches and any related impact on our business, reputation, or brand; our ability to attract and engage qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to choose and effectively manage service providers; the effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events; the impact of a pandemic or an outbreak of disease or similar public health concern, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or fear of such an event; our ability to collect amounts owed to us; the timing of the recognition of our deferred revenue; the timing of strategic investments and expenditures; fluctuations in operating expenses, including cost of revenue, as we seek to improve efficiencies, comply with changing regulatory requirements, and expand our business, offerings, and technologies; changes to financial accounting standards and the interpretation of those standards, which may affect the way we recognize and report our financial results; 29 Table of Contents the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting; and changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. The variability and unpredictability of our results of operations could result in our failure to meet the expectations of investors or analysts with respect to revenue or other results of operations for a particular period. If we fail to meet or fail to exceed such expectations, the market price of our Class A common stock could fall substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. Macroeconomic conditions, including slower growth or a recession and supply chain disruptions, have previously affected and could continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our business and results of operations are subject to global economic conditions. Our revenue depends on the ability of consumers to buy products that are featured on the IPN. Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions, including slower growth or a recession, inflation, changes in the U.S. presidential administration, bank failures, supply chain disruption, increases in interest rates, increases to fuel and other energy costs or vehicle costs, a potential U.S. federal government shutdown, geopolitical events, including escalating tariff and non-tariff trade measures imposed by the U.S., Mexico, China, Canada and other countries, the potential for new or unforeseen conflicts such as the impact of the Russia and Ukraine conflict and Hamas and Israel conflict, changes in the labor market, downturns that could result in store closures, publisher or retail failures, our clients having lower promotional budgets, or decreases in consumer spending power or confidence, have in the past and could in the future result in a decline in client spending, which could materially adversely affect the number of offer redemptions on our network. Supply chain disruptions could adversely affect the willingness of our clients to continue promoting their products through the IPN. For example, in the first half of 2022, our D2C redemptions per redeemer were negatively impacted due to supply chain constraints, which made it difficult for our clients to keep their product on shelves and decreased promotions on products purchased with high frequency. Clients experienced decreased inventory levels, increased shipment delays, increased freight costs, and elevated levels of demand, leading to decreased demand for our platform and decreased revenues, as well as decreased earning opportunities. An increase in our clients operating costs, or other deterioration in the financial condition of our partners, whether due to macroeconomic conditions (such as inflation) or otherwise, could cause our clients to reduce discount offerings or seek to renegotiate contract terms, which may impact our fee agreements with them. If such clients or publishers on our network were to cease operations, temporarily or permanently, or face financial distress or other business disruption, we may not be able to provide consumers with a sufficient selection of CPG brands and retailers, and they may be less likely to use our network. Small businesses that do not have substantial resources, like some of our CPG brands, retailers, and publishers, tend to be more adversely affected by poor economic conditions than larger businesses. A recession or market correction could also decrease marketing spend, particularly in media, and could adversely affect the demand for our solutions, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In addition, uncertainty and volatility in the banking and financial services sectors, inflation and higher interest rates, supply chain disruptions, increased labor and benefits costs, and increased insurance costs have, and may continue to, put pressure on economic conditions, which has led, and could lead, to greater operating expenses. Certain of our longer-term strategic initiatives may also be deferred or not have the intended effects in the event of an economic recession, which we may not be able to predict. The extent of the impact of these factors on our operational and financial performance will depend on future developments and the impact on our clients, publishers, and employees, all of which continue to 30 Table of Contents evolve and are unpredictable. Accordingly, current results and financial condition discussed herein may not be indicative of future operating results and trends. Competition presents an ongoing threat to the success of our business. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with a broad set of competitors for CPG brands, retailers, publishers, and consumers across our products and offerings. With increasing consumer usage of smartphones for retail shopping, the digital promotions market is rapidly evolving and our continued success will depend on our ability to successfully adjust our strategy to meet the changing market dynamics in order to reach the largest consumer audience. If we are not able to continue to innovate and further develop our platform to respond to changes in the digital promotions market, our business,financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected and our competition could develop offerings that are more competitive than ours. As we seek investments from clients, we compete with large social media and search-oriented platforms, as well as programmatic media networks that sell ads on a cost-per-click or cost-per-impression basis. Following Amazons lead, other large retailers are now offering CPG brands the opportunity to buy media, usually in the form of sponsored search results or display ads, on their own platforms. Clients also have multiple different promotional tools at their disposal. We also compete with companies that distribute paper coupons and free-standing inserts as well as digital coupons through grocery retail websites in a white-label fashion; and with other mobile apps and other platforms that offer digital promotions. For consumers, there are many other rewards programs that provide cash back, including credit cards, individual retailer loyalty programs, and online shopping sites that aggregate retailer offers. We aim to compete by offering an at-scale solution that hosts a wider range of digital promotions content, allows for a higher degree of targeting and measurement, operates on a fee-per-sale basis, works offline and online, and drives sales across multiple publishers and retailers. However, our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including the following: scale and quality of the publishers, CPG brands, and retailers in the IPN; ability to attract consumers to our network; platform security, usability, scalability, reliability, and availability; ability to integrate with publishers and retailers in a timely manner; ongoing and uninterrupted access to item-level consumer data with the necessary usage rights required to power our solution; measurement that demonstrates the effectiveness of our network; brand recognition and reputation; and ability to recruit, retain, and train employees. Some of our competitors may have a competitive advantage because they have longer operating histories, greater financial, marketing, and other resources, and larger customer bases than we do. In addition, our competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, and adopt different pricing policies, which may allow them to build larger customer and/or merchant bases or generate revenue from their customer bases more effectively than we do. 31 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected if we do not renew, maintain, and expand our relationships with retailers. Our integrated retailers provide us with item-level data that is integral to our platform because such data helps facilitate a simpler redemption of offers on our D2C properties. We also allow thousands of online retailers to advertise and present consumers with their own cash back offers on our D2C properties. Our ability to renew, maintain, and expand our relationships with retailers is dependent on, among other factors, our ability to increase the number of consumers that use our network, and any failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. If our retailers terminate their relationships with us or suspend, limit, or cease their operations, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Retailers may also ask to modify their agreement terms in a cost-prohibitive or strategically detrimental manner when their agreements are up for renewal. Our inability to maintain our relationships with our retailers on terms consistent with or better than those already in place and that are otherwise favorable to us could increase competitive pressure and/or offering pricing, and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Retailer consolidation may also result in a decrease in or cessation of engagement with Ibotta, or result in Ibotta receiving less favorable contract terms with the consolidated entity. Retailers could also experience downturns or fail, including due to macroeconomic pressures, and cease using Ibotta altogether for many reasons. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We have experienced growth in our business and we anticipate continuing to experience growth in the future. For example, the number of our full-time employees increased from 530 as of December 31, 2020 to 886 as of December 31, 2024. Following a reduction in force in February 2025, we have approximately 800 full-time employees. This growth has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. Our ability to manage our growth effectively and to integrate new employees, technologies, and acquisitions into our existing business will require us to continue to expand our operational and financial infrastructure and to continue to retain, attract, train, motivate, and manage employees. Continued growth could strain our ability to develop and improve our operational, financial, and management controls; enhance our reporting systems and procedures; recruit, train, and retain highly skilled personnel; and maintain user satisfaction. Additionally, if we do not effectively manage the growth of our business and operations, the quality of our solutions could suffer, which could materially adversely affect our reputation and brand, business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We have a limited operating history and operate in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We incorporated in 2011, and we have since frequently expanded our solutions. This limited operating history at our current scale and our evolving business make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter. These risks and challenges include our ability to: accurately forecast our revenue and plan our operating expenses; increase and retain the number of publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers; successfully compete with current and future competitors; successfully expand our business in existing markets and enter new markets and geographies; 32 Table of Contents anticipate and respond to macroeconomic changes and changes in the markets in which we operate; plan for and manage capital expenditures; comply with existing and new laws and regulations applicable to our business; maintain and enhance the value of our reputation and brand; adapt to rapidly evolving trends in the ways publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers interact with technology; avoid interruptions or disruptions in our service; develop a scalable, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently and reliably handle increased usage, as well as the deployment of new features and solutions; hire, integrate, and retain talented technology, sales, customer service, and other personnel; effectively manage growth in our personnel and operations; and effectively manage our costs. If we fail to address the risks and difficulties that we face, including those associated with the challenges listed above, as well as those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We have limited experience operating our business at its current scale, including the distribution of our offers to publishers. For example, in September of 2023, Walmart made its program available to all Walmart customers with a Walmart.com account. Dollar General joined the IPN in 2022 and began hosting Ibottas cash back offers in 2023. Our limited history and experience operating our current business may also negatively impact our ability to plan strategic investments and initiatives to further expand our business and offerings, including to support our publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers, certain of which may require significant capital expenditures and future operating expenses that may be difficult to forecast. In addition, existing and future operational and strategic initiatives may have lengthy return on investment time horizons, such as certain investments in our platform. As a result, we will not be able to adequately assess the benefits of such initiatives until we have made substantial investments of time and capital, resulting in high opportunity costs. We are also devoting significant resources to bolster our capacity and information technology infrastructure, financial and accounting systems and controls, sales and marketing and engineering capabilities, and operations and support infrastructure, as well as to retain, manage, and train employees in geographically dispersed locations to service new and existing clients and publishers. We may not successfully accomplish any of these objectives in a timely manner or at all. Further, because we operate in a rapidly evolving market, any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in a more predictable market. We have encountered in the past, and will encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies with limited operating histories in rapidly changing industries. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan and operate our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, or if we receive unfavorable media coverage, our ability to retain and expand our number of 33 Table of Contents publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers could be impaired, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We believe that the brand identity that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand is important to expanding our base of publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our businessfinancial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our website, mobile app, platform, practices, or the offerings or platforms of our clients or publishers could adversely affect our reputation, resulting in difficulties in recruiting, decreased revenues, and a negative impact on the number of publishers, CPG brands, and retailers in the IPN, and the loyalty of our consumers. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our sales and revenue are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from period to period, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly. Our sales cycle can be long, and we may make investments and incur significant expenses before an agreement or renewal with CPG brands, retailers, or publishers is reached, if at all, and before we are able to generate revenue, if any, from such agreement or renewal. There are no guarantees that we will be able to recoup such investments and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In addition, the length of time that CPG brands, retailers, or publishers devote to their evaluation, contract negotiation, and budgeting processes varies significantly. In particular, our contract negotiation process with publishers can be lengthy. Our sales cycles can be lengthy in certain cases, especially with respect to our prospective large end publishers or clients. During the sales cycle, we expend significant time and money on sales and marketing activities, which lower our operating margins, particularly if no sale occurs. Even if we expand our relationship with publishers, CPG brands, and retailers, there are many factors affecting the timing of our recognition of revenue, which makes our revenue difficult to forecast. In addition, due to macroeconomic uncertainties, the sales cycle may be extended, and there may be delays and reductions of expenditures and cancellations by clients. There are many other factors that contribute to variability of our revenue recognition, including budgetary constraints and changes in personnel. As a result, it is difficult to predict whether a sale will be completed, the particular period in which a sale will be completed, or the period in which revenue from a sale will be recognized. If our sales cycles lengthen, our revenue could be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our business is typically affected by seasonality, which results in fluctuations in our operating results. Historically, we have been affected by seasonality, with our business historically having higher revenues in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, mirroring that of consumer retail and e-commerce markets, where demand increases during the fourth quarter holiday season and decreases in the first quarter. For example, the fourth quarter for the fiscal years ended 2024 and 2023 represented 27% and 31% of total revenue, respectively. At the same time, certain of our clients budgets may deplete over the course of the year. We typically see high redemption volume in the second half of the year where a larger number of offers being redeemed have lower redemption revenue per redemption. However, there can be no assurances such seasonal trends will consistently repeat each year. Also, the mix of product sales 34 Table of Contents may vary considerably from time to time. As a result of quarterly fluctuations caused by these and other factors, comparisons of our operating results across different fiscal quarters may not be accurate indicators of our future performance and we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. Internet search engines drive traffic to our network, and our new consumer growth could decline. If we fail to appear prominently in search results, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract consumers through unpaid internet search results on search engines like Google, Yahoo!, and Bing. The number of consumers we attract to our network from search engines is due in large part to how and where our website ranks in unpaid search results. These rankings can be affected by a number of factors, many of which are not under our direct control and may change frequently. For example, a search engine may change its ranking algorithms, methodologies, or design layouts. As a result, links to our website may not be prominent enough to drive traffic to our website, and we may not know how or otherwise be in a position to influence the results. In some instances, search engine companies may change these rankings in a way that promotes their own competing products or services or the products or services of one or more of our competitors. Search engines may also adopt a more aggressive auction-pricing system for keywords that would cause us to incur higher advertising costs or reduce our market visibility to prospective consumers. Our website has experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. Any reduction in the number of consumers directed to our network could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We rely on mobile operating systems and app marketplaces to make our apps available to consumers, and if we do not effectively operate with or receive favorable placements within such app marketplaces and maintain reviews from consumers, our usage or brand recognition could decline and our business, financial results, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We depend in part on mobile operating systems, such as Android, iOS, and Google, and their respective app marketplaces to make our apps and browser extension available to consumers on our network. Any changes in such systems and app marketplaces that degrade the presentation or functionality of our apps and/or browser extension or give preferential treatment to our competitors apps or browser extensions could adversely affect our platforms usage on mobile and desktop devices. If, for example, such mobile operating systems or app marketplaces limit or prohibit us from making our apps or browser extension available to consumers, make changes that degrade the functionality of our app or browser extension, increase the cost of using our products and offerings, impose terms of use unsatisfactory to us, or modify their search or ratings algorithms in ways that are detrimental to us, overall growth of consumers could slow. Our apps and browser extension have experienced fluctuations in the number of downloads in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. Additionally, we are subject to requirements imposed by app marketplaces such as those operated by Apple and Google, who may change their technical requirements or policies in a manner that adversely impacts the way in which we collect, use, and share data from users. For example, Apple requires mobile apps using its iOS mobile operating system to obtain a users permission to track them or access their devices advertising identifier for certain purposes. The long-term impact of these and any other changes remains uncertain. If we do not comply with applicable requirements imposed by app marketplaces, we could lose access to the app marketplaces and users, and our business could be harmed. Any of the foregoing risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. As new mobile devices and mobile platforms are released, there is no guarantee that certain mobile devices will continue to support our platform or effectively roll out updates to our apps. Additionally, in order to deliver high-quality apps, we need to ensure that our solutions are designed to work effectively with a range of mobile technologies, systems, networks, and standards. If consumers in our network encounter any difficulty accessing or using our apps on their mobile devices, or if we are unable to adapt 35 Table of Contents to changes in popular mobile operating systems, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Restrictions imposed by our outstanding indebtedness and any future indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business, to finance our future operations or capital needs, or to engage in acquisitions or other business activities necessary to achieve growth. We have a senior secured revolving loan facility in place with Bank of America, N.A. Our revolving loan facility includes a number of covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, incur liens on our assets, engage in consolidations, amalgamations, mergers, liquidations, dissolutions, or dispositions, sell or otherwise dispose of our assets, pay dividends or distributions on, or make repurchases or redemptions of, our capital stock, acquire other businesses (by way of asset purchase, stock purchase, or otherwise), or make loans, capital contributions, or other investments. The revolving loan facility also includes two financial covenants. In general, these financial covenants require us to maintain, (i) an EBITDA to interest ratio of 3.0:1.0 or greater; and (ii) an indebtedness to EBTIDA ratio of 3.0:1.0 or less. The terms of our revolving loan facility may restrict our current and future operations and could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or take advantage of financing opportunities, mergers, acquisitions, investments, and other corporate opportunities that may be beneficial to our business. In addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain compliance with the covenants in our revolving loan facility or, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lender and/or amend the covenants. A failure by us to comply with the covenants specified in our revolving loan facility would, absent cure or waiver, result in an event of default under the agreement, which would give the lender the right to declare all outstanding obligations, including accrued and unpaid interest and fees, immediately due and payable. If our obligations under our revolving loan facility were to be accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash or be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the obligations or sell sufficient assets to repay the obligations, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, it may not be on terms that are commercially reasonable or acceptable to us. Any event of default could also result in an increase in the interest rates applicable to our revolving loan facility, and may result in the acceleration of or default under any other indebtedness we may incur in the future to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, we have granted a security interest of substantially all our assets to secure our obligations under our revolving loan facility. During the existence of an event of default under our revolving loan facility, the lender could exercise its rights and remedies thereunder, including by way of initiating foreclosure proceedings against any of our assets constituting collateral for our obligations. The loss of Bryan Leach, our Founder, Chief Executive Officer, President, and Chairman of our board of directors, or one or more of our senior management team or key personnel, or our failure to attract new or replacement members of our senior management team or other key personnel in the future, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We depend on the continued services and performance of our Founder, Chief Executive Officer, President, and Chairman of our board of directors, Bryan Leach; members of our senior management team; and other key personnel. Mr. Leach has been responsible for setting our strategic vision, and should he stop working for us for any reason, it is unlikely that we would be able to immediately find a suitable replacement. We do not maintain key man life insurance for Mr. Leach and do not believe any amount of key man insurance would allow us to recover from the harm to our business if Mr. Leach were to leave us for any reason. Similarly, members of our senior management team and key employees are highly sought after, and others may attempt to encourage these executives to leave us. The loss of one or more of the members of the senior management team or other key personnel for any reason could disrupt 36 Table of Contents our operations, create uncertainty among investors, adversely impact employee retention and morale, and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. An inability to attract and retain highly qualified employees, including as a result of restrictive changes to immigration laws or the varying application of immigration laws, may hamper our growth and cause our revenues to decline, adversely affecting our business. To execute our growth plan, we anticipate hiring additional employees over the next few years. In addition, we need to retain our highly qualified employees. Competition for these recruits and employees is intense from other internet and high-growth publicly traded and private companies, especially with respect to engineers with high levels of experience in our industry. Further, in order to continue to grow our business, it is important that we continue to grow our sales force. We have, from time to time, experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with the appropriate level of qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for qualified employees have greater resources than we have and may offer compensation packages that are perceived to be better than ours. For example, we often offer equity awards to our job candidates and existing employees as part of their overall compensation package. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, including as a result of volatility or declines in the market price of our Class A common stock or changes in perception about our future prospects (including as valuations of companies comparable to us decline due to overall market trends, inflation, and related market effects, or otherwise), it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly qualified employees. We have recently experienced fluctuations, including declines, in the market price of our Class A common stock, and reduced the size of our workforce which could adversely affect our ability to attract, motivate, or retain key employees. Additionally, changes in our compensation structure may be negatively received by employees and result in attrition or cause difficulty in the recruiting process. Further, inflationary pressure may result in employee attrition to the extent our compensation does not keep up with inflation. Finally, we are committed to a hybrid workforce, which prioritizes hiring employees in Denver. This could slow hiring if we are unable to attract talent in the Denver market. If we fail to attract new employees or fail to retain and motivate our current employees, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Changes in immigration laws or varying applications of immigration laws to limit the availability of certain work visas or increase visa fees in the United States may impact our ability to hire the engineering and other talent that we need to continue to enhance our platform, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. It is difficult to predict the political and economic events that could affect immigration laws, or the restrictive impact they could have on obtaining or renewing work visas for our technology professionals. Failure to deal effectively with fraudulent or other improper transactions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Third parties have, and in the future could, commit fraudulent activities such as improperly claiming rewards, account takeover attacks, or submitting counterfeit receipts to improperly offer stack and/or claim rewards or discounts. While we use anti-fraud systems, individuals have and could in the future circumvent them using increasingly sophisticated methods or methods that our anti-fraud systems are not able to counteract or detect in a timely manner. The legal measures we could take or attempt to take against third parties who succeed in circumventing our anti-fraud systems may be costly and may not be ultimately successful. While we have taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new offerings. If these measures do not succeed, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We may incur losses if we reimburse CPG brands and retailers for any funds stolen or revenues lost as a result of such incidents. Our CPG brands and retailers could also request reimbursement, or stop 37 Table of Contents using our solutions, if they are affected by buyer fraud or other types of fraud. Furthermore, such instances of fraud may damage our reputation, affect our ability to attract new publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers to our D2C properties, and undermine confidence in the IPN, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We rely in part on licensed money transmitters to enable consumers to cash out their earned rewards from our D2C properties, and the failure to manage our relationships with such third parties could impact our platform and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We rely in part on licensed money transmitters to enable consumers to cash out their earned rewards from our D2C properties. If any of these licensed money transmitters terminate their relationship with us or refuse to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, we would need to find alternative licensed money transmitters to support our platform and may not be able to secure similar terms or replace such licensed money transmitters in an acceptable time frame. Any of these risks could result in significant legal, financial, and reputational costs to our business and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We rely primarily on insurance policies to insure our operations-related risks. If our insurance coverage is insufficient for the needs of our business or our insurance providers are unable to meet their obligations, we may not be able to mitigate the risks facing our business, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We procure insurance policies to cover various operations-related risks, including employment practices liability, workers compensation, business interruptions, errors and omissions, cybersecurity and data breaches, crime, directors and officers liability, and general business liabilities. For certain types of operations-related risks or future risks related to our new and evolving offerings, we are not able to, or may not be able to, acquire insurance. In addition, we may not obtain enough insurance to adequately mitigate such operations-related risks or risks related to our new and evolving offerings, and we may have to pay high premiums, co-insurance, self-insured retentions, or deductibles for the coverage we do obtain. We rely on a limited number of insurance providers, and should such providers discontinue or increase the cost of coverage, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to secure replacement coverage on reasonable terms or at all. If our insurance carriers change the terms of our policies in a manner not favorable to us, our insurance costs could increase. Further, if the insurance coverage we maintain is not adequate to cover losses that occur, or if we are required to purchase additional insurance for other aspects of our business, we could be liable for significant additional costs. Additionally, if any of our insurance providers becomes insolvent, it would be unable to pay any claims that we make. If the amount of one or more claims were to exceed our applicable aggregate coverage limits, we would bear the excess, in addition to amounts already incurred in connection with deductibles, self-insured retentions, co-insurance, or otherwise paid by our insurance policy. Insurance providers have raised premiums and deductibles for many businesses and may do so in the future. As a result, our insurance costs and claims expense could increase, or we may decide to raise our deductibles or self-insured retentions when our policies are renewed or replaced. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected if the cost per claim, premiums, the severity of claims, or the number of claims significantly exceeds our historical experience and coverage limits; we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits; our insurance providers fail to pay on our insurance claims; we experience a claim for which coverage is not provided; or the severity or number of claims under our deductibles or self-insured retentions differs from historical averages. We are also subject to certain contractual requirements to obtain insurance. For example, some of our agreements with retailers require that we procure certain types of insurance, and if we are unable to obtain and maintain such insurance, we may be in violation of the terms of these retailer agreements. In addition, we are subject to local laws, rules, and regulations relating to insurance coverage, which could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others. Additionally, anticipated or 38 Table of Contents future local laws, rules, and regulations relating to insurance coverage could require additional fees and costs. Compliance with these rules and any related lawsuits, proceedings, or actions may subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to increase our insurance coverage, require us to amend our insurance policy disclosure, increase our costs, and disrupt our business. If we cannot maintain our Company culture as we grow, our business and competitive position may be harmed. We believe our culture fosters an inclusive environment that welcomes diverse experience, backgrounds, lifestyles, and perspectives, and is a key contributor to our success to date. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, which is critical to our growth, and to effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. As we grow and develop the infrastructure of a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our culture. In addition, with many of our employees working remotely, we may find it harder in certain respects to maintain our Company culture. Remote work may negatively impact employee morale, productivity, and culture, and may also harm collaboration and innovation. We also have a policy of hiring new employees in Denver, whenever possible, and of requiring these new employees to come into the office a certain number of days per week. This policy may make it difficult for us to identify the talent we need to grow our business. If we are not able to maintain our culture, we could lose the innovation, passion, and dedication of our team and as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Operating and growing our business may require additional capital, and if capital is not available to us, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may suffer. Operating and growing our business is expected to require further investments in our technology and operations. We may be presented with opportunities that we want to pursue, and unforeseen challenges may present themselves, any of which could cause us to require additional capital. If our cash needs exceed our expectations or we continue to experience growth, we could experience strain in our cash flow, which could adversely affect our operations in the event we are unable to obtain other sources of liquidity. If, in the future, we aim to rely on funds raised through equity or debt financing, those funds may prove to be unavailable, may only be available on terms that are not acceptable to us, or may result in significant dilution to our stockholders or higher levels of leverage, which will expose our business to additional risks. The fact that our warrant holders can sell substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market could make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate, or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to pursue our business objectives and to respond to business opportunities, challenges, or unforeseen circumstances could be significantly limited, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We are making substantial investments to expand our technologies, tools, and offerings to capitalize on new and unproven business opportunities and expect to increase such investments in the future. These initiatives are risky, and we may never realize any expected benefits from them. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in expanding our technologies, tools, and offerings to capitalize on new and unproven business opportunities. For example, we are in the process of shifting the performance metric by which our clients can track their campaigns. We are also building a campaign manager product through which our clients can set up, measure, and optimize their campaigns with us, and we plan to use AI to recommend and optimize campaign configurations rather than having our sales team manually set parameters with our clients. If we do not spend our development budget efficiently on commercially successful and innovative technologies, tools, and offerings, or if we are unable to timely introduce and commercialize such technologies, tools, and offerings, we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategy. These 39 Table of Contents initiatives also have a high degree of risk, as they involve nascent and unproven business strategies, metrics, and technologies with which we have limited or no prior development or operating experience. Because these initiatives are new, they may involve claims and liabilities, expenses, regulatory challenges, and other risks, some of which we cannot currently anticipate. Certain initiatives may also involve committed incremental investments or payments over long periods of time before they become accretive to our revenue or margin, and if they never become accretive, we may make payments or incur expenses in connection with initiatives for an extended period without sufficient, or any, economic or financial benefit. Further, our development efforts with respect to new technologies, tools, and offerings could distract management from current operations and divert capital and other resources from our more established technologies, tools, and offerings. Although we believe these investments and initiatives will improve our financial results over the long term, they may negatively impact our short-term financial results, which may be inconsistent with the short-term expectations of our stockholders. Moreover, there can be no assurance that CPG brand, retailer, publisher, or consumer demand for such initiatives will exist or be sustained at the levels that we anticipate, or that any of these initiatives will gain sufficient traction or market acceptance to generate sufficient revenue to offset any new expenses or liabilities associated with these new investments. It is also possible that technologies, tools, and offerings developed by others will render any of our new technologies, tools, and offerings noncompetitive or obsolete. If we do not realize the expected benefits of these investments and initiatives, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Acquisitions and strategic alliances could distract management and expose us to financial, execution, and operational risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We have in the past, and may in the future, acquire or make investments in complementary or what we view as strategic businesses, technologies, services, or products. For example, in 2021, we acquired Instok LLC (d/b/a/ Octoshop), an all-in-one shopping browser extension, which required management to focus efforts on integrating the acquired company. The risks associated with acquisitions include, without limitation, difficulty assimilating and integrating the acquired companys personnel, operations, technology, services, products, and software; the inability to retain key team members; the disruption of our ongoing business and increases in our expenses; and the diversion of managements attention from core business concerns. Through acquisitions, we may enter into business lines in which we have not previously operated, which could expose us to new risks, additional licensing requirements and regulatory oversight, and require additional integration and attention of management. Any businesses and assets we might acquire might not perform at levels we expect and we may not be able to achieve the anticipated synergies, if any. We may find that we overpaid for the acquired business or assets, or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision have changed. It may also take time to fully integrate newly acquired businesses and assets into our business, during which time our business could suffer from inefficiency. Furthermore, we may incur indebtedness to pay for acquisitions, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity. The effects of health epidemics, including COVID-19, have had, and may in the future have, an adverse impact on our business, operations, and the markets and communities in which we and our partners operate. Our business and operations have been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by health epidemics, including COVID-19, impacting the markets and communities in which we and our partners operate. Quarantine orders, business closures, work stoppages, slowdowns and delays, work from home policies, travel restrictions, and cancellations of events negatively impacted productivity and disrupted our operations and those of our partners. The COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted both consumer discretionary spending and clients ability to spend advertising budgets on our solution. This had an 40 Table of Contents adverse impact on our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows primarily in the second quarter of the year ended December 31, 2020. The ultimate impact of COVID-19 or a similar health epidemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. COVID-19 and the various responses to it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks discussed in this Risk Factors section. Our collection cycles can vary, and we may experience difficulty collecting accounts receivable that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our collection cycles can vary based on payment practices from our clients, and we are required to pay our publishers within a contractual time frame, regardless of whether we have collected payment from our clients. As a result, timing of cash receipts related to accounts receivable and due to publishers can significantly impact our cash provided by (used in) operating activities for any period. In addition, we have in the past encountered, and may in the future encounter, difficulty collecting our accounts receivable and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts receivables, particularly since some of our clients are emerging brands. Also, our larger clients generally have longer payment terms, which impact the timing of our collections. Economic conditions may impact some of our clients ability to pay their accounts payable. While we will attempt to monitor our accounts receivable carefully and try to take appropriate measures to collect accounts receivable balances, we have written down accounts receivable and written off doubtful accounts in prior periods and may be unable to avoid accounts receivable write-downs or write-offs of doubtful accounts in the future. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur. Should more clients than we anticipate experience liquidity issues, or if payment is not received on a timely basis or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We may become involved in litigation that could materially adversely affect us. From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings relating to matters including patent, copyright, commercial, product liability, consumer protection, employment, class action, whistleblower, and other litigation, in addition to governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. We also have received and may in the future receive claims asserting we are or may be infringing, misappropriating, or otherwise violating third-party intellectual property rights. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert managements attention and resources, cause us to incur significant expenses or liability, and/or require us to change our business practices. Because of the potential risks, expenses, and uncertainties of litigation, we may, from time to time, settle disputes, even where we have meritorious claims or defenses. Although we have insurance that may provide coverage for some kinds of claims we may face, that insurance may not cover some kinds of claims or types of relief and may not be adequate in a particular case. Because litigation is inherently unpredictable, we cannot assure you that the results of any of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. An increase in interest rates could materially adversely impact our business. On December 5, 2024, we entered into a Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swingline lender, and L/C issuer, and each of the lenders and other parties from time to time party thereto (Credit Agreement). This Credit Agreement replaces the Third Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank (2021 Credit Facility). The Credit Agreement, which matures on December 5, 2029, provides us with revolving commitments in an aggregate principal amount of $100 million, a letter of credit sub-facility of up to $10 million, and a swingline loan sub-facility of up to $10 million.Loans drawn under the Credit Agreement will bear interest while outstanding. The interest rate will be at a variable rate equal to (i) at our option, Term SOFR (as defined in the Credit Agreement) or Base Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) plus (ii) an applicable 41 Table of Contents margin. The applicable margin ranges from (x) 1.75% to 2.25% for loans based on Term SOFR and (y) 0.75% to 1.25% for loans based on Base Rate. Per the terms of the Credit Agreement, each quarter, we will also pay a commitment fee ranging from 0.30% to 0.40% of undrawn amounts of the revolving commitment. Applicable margin and the commitment fee will be based on our indebtedness to EBTIDA ratio. As this ratio lowers, our applicable margin and commitment fee also lowers. Base Rate and Term SOFR are based on market rates which may increase or decrease. If the U.S. Federal Reserve were to raise its benchmark interest rates, market interest rates could also increase. We do not currently have any outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement or under any other indebtedness agreement. However, if we were to incur debt in the future, under our Credit Agreement or any other indebtedness subject to a variable interest rate, an increase in interest rates would increase our borrowing costs. In addition, operating and growing our business may require additional capital, which could include equity or debt financing. An increase in interest rates could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Further, to the extent we are required to obtain financing at higher borrowing costs to support our operations, we may be unable to offset such costs. Any attempts to offset cost increases with price increases may result in reduced sales, increased client dissatisfaction, or otherwise harm our reputation. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses, including unauthorized use or disclosure of consumer data. Our agreements with publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and other third parties may include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement or other liabilities relating to or arising from our solutions or other contractual obligations, including those relating to data use and consumer consent. The term of these indemnity provisions generally survives termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large indemnity payments, individually or in the aggregate across third parties, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Although we do not currently have any plans to expand our operations outside of the United States, if we attempt and fail to expand effectively in international markets, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We currently generate all of our revenues from the United States and we do not currently have any plans to expand our operations outside of the United States. Many publishers, CPG brands, and retailers on our platform have global operations, and we may in the future grow our operations and solutions through expansion in international markets and by partnering with our publishers, CPG brands, and retailers to enter new geographies that are important to them. Expansion into international markets will require management attention and resources, and we have limited experience entering new geographic markets. Expansion into international markets will also require us to form partnerships with new publishers, CPG brands, and retailers, and effectively compete with any competitors in new geographic markets. Entering new foreign markets will require us to localize our solutions to conform to a wide variety of local cultures, business practices, laws, and policies. The different commercial and internet infrastructure in other countries may make it more difficult for us to replicate our business model. In some countries, we will compete with local companies that understand the local market better than we do, and we may not benefit from first-to-market advantages. We may not be successful in expanding into particular international markets or in generating revenues from foreign operations. Risks Related to our Platform We are making substantial investments in our technologies, and if we do not continue to innovate and further develop our platform, our platform developments do not perform, or we are not able to keep pace with technological developments, we may not remain competitive, and our 42 Table of Contents business,financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We have made substantial investments in our technologies to capitalize on new and unproven business opportunities. Our future performance is dependent on continued investments in technology and our ability to innovate, reduce friction, and introduce compelling new product features for each participant in our network. We intend to make continued investments in these areas through hiring and ongoing technology transformation. We plan to further invest in AI-powered capabilities and leverage our unique data set to further improve the publisher, CPG brand, retailer, and consumer experience. If competitors introduce new offerings embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, solutions, website, browser extension, and mobile apps may become obsolete. Our future success could depend on our ability to respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices in a cost-effective and timely manner. These initiatives also have a high degree of risk, as they involve unproven business strategies and technologies with which we have limited development or operating experience. Further, our development efforts with respect to new technologies could distract management from current operations and divert capital and other resources from other initiatives. We have scaled our business rapidly, and significant new platform features and solutions have in the past resulted in, and in the future may continue to result in, operational challenges affecting our business. Developing and launching enhancements to our platform and new solutions on our platform may involve significant technical risks and upfront capital investments that may not generate return on investment. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt to emerging industry standards. If we face material delays in introducing new or enhanced platform features and solutions, or if our recently introduced solutions do not perform in accordance with our expectations, the publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers that use our platform may forego the use of our solutions in favor of those of our competitors. If our security measures or information we collect and maintain are compromised or publicly exposed, publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers may curtail or stop using our platform, and we could be subject to claims, penalties, and fines. We collect, receive, store, generate, use, transfer, disclose, dispose of, share, and otherwise process (Process or Processing) data about consumers, including personal information or personal data, and other confidential or proprietary information, for various purposes, including legal, marketing, and other business-related purposes. Cyberattacks, denial or degradation of service attacks, ransomware attacks, business email compromises, account takeover attacks, malware, viruses, social engineering (including phishing), identity theft, fraudulent payment requests, and other malicious online and related activities are prevalent in our and our service providers, clients, and publishers industries. Advances in computer and software capabilities and increasing sophistication of hackers have increased these and other cybersecurity risks. Geopolitical tensions and conflicts may also increase these risks. We and our service providers, clients, or publishers may experience cyber-attacks, unavailable, disrupted, or degraded systems, and unauthorized access to or other Processing of data due to these risks, among others, including employee error or malfeasance, theft or misuse, attacks by nation-state and affiliated actors, and advanced persistent threat intrusions. We have been and may in the future become the subject of cyberattacks, including those seeking unauthorized access to our data or other data we maintain or process. We may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive and remedial measures against all threats, and we cannot guarantee that our security or recovery measures will be adequate to prevent, detect, or address security breaches or incidents, service degradation or interruptions, system failures, data loss, theft, or other unauthorized Processing, or other material adverse consequences. Our security measures, and those of companies we may acquire and our service providers, clients, and publishers, could fail or be insufficient, resulting in interruptions or other disruptions to systems, the loss or unavailability of, or unauthorized use or other Processing of our or our clients, publishers or consumers data or other data that we or our service providers or partners Process, or other security breaches or incidents. The time, expense, and resources required to respond to an actual or perceived 43 Table of Contents security breach or incident and/or to mitigate any security vulnerabilities that may be identified could be significant, we may face difficulties or delays in so doing, our efforts to address these problems may not be successful, and these problems could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation or degradation of service, negative publicity, and other harm to our business and our competitive position. We could be required to implement additional security measures or to fundamentally change our business activities and practices in response to a security breach or incident. Many of our employees work remotely, which may pose additional cybersecurity risks. We also have incorporated AIML solutions and features into our platform and may incorporate additional AIML solutions and features into our platform in the future. The use of AIML solutions may result in security incidents and our use of AIML solutions and features may create additional cybersecurity risks or increase cybersecurity risks. Further, AIML technologies may be used in connection with certain cyber-attacks, resulting in heightened risks of security breaches and incidents. There also have been and may continue to be significant attacks on supply chains and on service providers. We do not control the security measures of third parties, but we may be, or face assertions that we are, responsible for any breach or incident they suffer or for any exploitable defects, vulnerabilities, or bugs in third-party components or services that we use. If any security breach or incident impacts our data or data of one or more consumers, clients, or publishers, if we fail to detect, remediate, and otherwise address an actual or perceived security breach or incident in a timely manner, or if we suffer a cyberattack or other disruption that impacts our ability to operate our apps, systems, or networks, or if any of the foregoing is perceived to have occurred, it could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. For example, any actual or perceived security breach or incident may cause publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers to lose trust and confidence in us and decrease or cease their use of our platform, and we may face claims, litigation, or other adversarial actions by publishers, CPG brands, retailers, consumers, or others. More generally, any cyberattack, security breach, or incident, or the perception that any of these has occurred, could result in claims, demands, or other proceedings, or in fines, penalties, mitigation and remediation costs, reputational harm, diversion of managements attention, and could otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We have contractual and legal obligations to notify relevant stakeholders of certain security breaches and incidents. Any such disclosures could be costly, lead to negative publicity, and cause our clients, publishers, or consumers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures. Further, any such actual or perceived breach or incident, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with security-related contractual obligations, may increase the likelihood and frequency of audits we face under our contracts with certain clients and publishers, which is likely to increase our costs and may disrupt our operations, and may result in claims, demands, and other proceedings and clients or publishers ending their relationships with us. Any of these results could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Damages, penalties, and other costs and liabilities relating to an actual or perceived security breach or incident could be significant and may not be covered by insurance or could exceed our applicable insurance coverage limits. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage, or results in changes to our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements), could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In addition, we cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that our insurers will not deny coverage as to all or part of any future claim or loss. Our risks are likely to increase as we continue to expand our apps, systems, or networks, grow our customer base, and Process increasingly large amounts of proprietary and sensitive data. Our ability to generate revenue depends on the collection, reliability, and use of significant amounts of data from various sources, which may be restricted by consumer choice, restrictions 44 Table of Contents imposed by publishers, browsers, integrated retailers, or software developers, changes in technology, and new developments in laws, regulations, and industry requirements or standards. Our ability to deliver our solutions depends on our ability to successfully leverage data, including data that we collect from consumers, data we receive from integrated retailers, publishers, and other parties, and data from our own operating history. Using device identifiers (including Google AdID and Apple IDFA), cookies, and other tracking technologies, we, our integrated retailers, publishers, and other data providers, collect information about the interactions of consumers with our retailers digital and in-store properties, our owned and operated properties, and certain other publisher sites and mobile apps, as well as other data such as location. We may enhance this data with other data, such as demographic information that we obtain from data providers. Our ability to successfully leverage such data depends on our continued ability to access, use, and share such data, which can be restricted by a number of factors, including consumer choice; the success in obtaining consumer consent; restrictions imposed by our integrated retailers, publishers, and other data partners or other third parties; restrictions imposed by web browser developers or other software developers, or operating system platforms; changes in technology, including changes in web browser technology; and new developments in laws, regulations, and industry standards. Resistance to the collection and sharing of the data used to deliver targeted advertising, increased visibility of consent or do not track mechanisms as a result of industry regulatory and/or legal developments, the adoption by consumers of browser settings or ad-blocking software, and the development and deployment of new technologies could materially impact our ability to Process data or reduce our ability to deliver relevant promotions or media, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. See the risk factor below titled, Our business is subject to complex and evolving laws, regulations, and industry standards, and unfavorable interpretations of, or changes in, or our actual and perceived failure to comply with these laws, regulations, and industry standards could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects for additional information. With the growth of online advertising and e-commerce, there is increasing awareness and concern among the general public, privacy advocates, mainstream media, governmental bodies, and others regarding marketing, advertising, and privacy matters, particularly as they relate to individual privacy interests. Any unfavorable publicity or negative public perception about our use of data or other data focused industries could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Negative public attention could cause publishers, CPG brands, and retailers to discontinue using our targeted advertising solutions and limit our ability to measure campaigns delivered through our platform. This public scrutiny may also lead to general distrust of data and marketing companies, consumer reluctance to share and permit use of personal data, and increased consumer opt-out rates, any of which could negatively influence, change, or reduce our current and prospective consumers and clients demand for our solutions and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our business depends on our ability to maintain and scale the network infrastructure necessary to operate our platform, including our websites and mobile apps, and any significant disruption in service could result in a loss of publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers. We deliver our solutions through our website, browser extension, and mobile apps, as well as through those of our publishers. Our reputation and ability to acquire, retain, and serve publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers are dependent upon the reliable performance of our platform. As the number of our publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and consumers grows, and as the information shared through our platform continues to grow, we will need an increasing amount of network capacity and computing power. In the event that the number of transactions or the amount of traffic on our platform grows more quickly than anticipated, we may be required to incur significant additional costs. In addition, as we scale, we must continually invest in our information technology, and continue to invest in information security, infrastructure, and automation. Deployment of new software or processes could adversely affect the performance of our solutions and harm the customer experience. If we fail to support our platform or provide a strong customer experience, our ability to retain and attract clients, publishers, and consumers 45 Table of Contents may be adversely affected. In particular, our consumers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our platform. We rely on third parties to provide some support services and our ability to provide effective support is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain service providers who are not only qualified to support users of our platform but are also well versed in our platform. As we continue to grow our business and improve our solutions, we could face challenges related to providing high-quality support services at-scale. Any failure to maintain high-quality support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could harm our reputation and our ability to scale our platform, and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Interruptions in these systems or service disruptions, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, malware, ransomware, denial of service attacks, attempts to degrade or disrupt services, or physical or electronic break-ins, could affect the security or availability of our websites and mobile apps, and prevent publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and/or consumers from accessing our platform. Our network infrastructure is hosted by third-party service providers. Any disruption in these services, or any failure of these providers to handle existing or increased traffic, or any financial or other difficulties these providers face could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We exercise little control over these providers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. These providers may also change or terminate their agreements with us. See the risk factor titled, "We are dependent on technology systems and electronic communications networks that are supplied and managed by third parties, which could result in increased expenses and an inability to prevent or respond to disruptions in our solutions." If we do not maintain or expand our network infrastructure successfully or if we experience operational failures, we could lose current and potential publishers, CPG brands, retailers, and/or consumers, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In addition, our failure to upgrade our technology or network infrastructure effectively to support our growth could result in unanticipated system disruptions, slow response times, or poor experiences for consumers. To manage the growth of our operations and personnel and improve the technology that supports our business operations, as well as our financial and management systems, disclosure