Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will achieve those plans, intentions or expectations. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those that we expected. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, or cautionary statements, are disclosed under the sections entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report. All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us, or persons acting on our behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained in this report under the heading Risk Factors, as well as other cautionary statements that are made from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and public communications. You should evaluate all forward-looking statements made in this report in the context of these risks and uncertainties. We caution you that the important factors referenced above may not contain all of the factors that are important to you. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will realize the results or developments we expect or anticipate or, even if substantially realized, that they will result in the consequences or affect us or our operations in the way we expect. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Unless expressly indicated or the context requires otherwise, the terms Ichor, Company, we, us, our, and similar terms in this report refer to Ichor Holdings, Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use a 52- or 53-week fiscal year ending on the last Friday in December. The following table details our fiscal periods included elsewhere in this report. All references to fiscal years or quarters relate to our fiscal period as so detailed. Fiscal Period Period Ending Weeks in Period Fiscal Year 2020: December 25, 2020 52 First Quarter March 27, 2020 13 Second Quarter June 26, 2020 13 Third Quarter September 25, 2020 13 Fourth Quarter December 25, 2020 13 Fiscal Year 2019: December 27, 2019 52 First Quarter March 29, 2019 13 Second Quarter June 28, 2019 13 Third Quarter September 27, 2019 13 Fourth Quarter December 27, 2019 13 Fiscal Year 2018: December 28, 2018 52 First Quarter March 30, 2018 13 Second Quarter June 29, 2018 13 Third Quarter September 28, 2018 13 Fourth Quarter December 28, 2018 13 Fiscal Year 2017: December 29, 2017 52 Fiscal Year 2016 December 30, 2016 53 Company Overview We are a leader in the design, engineering, and manufacturing of critical fluid delivery subsystems and components for semiconductor capital equipment. Our product offerings include gas and chemical delivery systems and subsystems, collectively known as fluid delivery systems and subsystems, which are key elements of the process tools used in the manufacturing of semiconductor devices. Our gas delivery subsystems deliver, monitor, and control precise quantities of the specialized gases used in semiconductor manufacturing processes such as etch and deposition. Our chemical delivery systems and subsystems precisely blend and dispense the reactive liquid chemistries used in semiconductor manufacturing processes such as chemical-mechanical planarization, electroplating, and cleaning. We also manufacture precision machined components, weldments, and proprietary products for use in fluid delivery systems for direct sales to our customers. This vertically integrated portion of our business is primarily focused on metal and plastic parts that are used in gas and chemical systems, respectively. Fluid delivery subsystems ensure accurate measurement and uniform delivery of specialty gases and chemicals at critical steps in the semiconductor manufacturing processes. Any malfunction or material degradation in fluid delivery reduces yields and increases the likelihood of manufacturing defects in these processes. Most OEMs outsource all or a portion of the design, engineering, and manufacturing of their gas delivery subsystems to a few specialized suppliers, including us. Additionally, many OEMs are also increasingly outsourcing the design, engineering, and manufacturing of their chemical delivery subsystems due to the increased fluid expertise required to manufacture these subsystems. Outsourcing these subsystems has allowed OEMs to leverage the suppliers highly specialized engineering, design, and production skills while focusing their internal resources on their own value-added processes. We believe that this outsourcing trend has enabled OEMs to reduce their costs and development time, as well as provide growth opportunities for specialized subsystems suppliers like us. 1 Our goal is to be a leading supplier of fluid delivery subsystems and components to OEMs engaged in manufacturing capital equipment to produce semiconductors and to leverage our technology and products to expand the share of our addressable markets. To achieve this goal, we engage with our customers early in their design and development processes and utilize our deep engineering resources and operating expertise , as well as our expanded product portfolio, to jointly create innovative and advanced solutions that meet the current and future needs of our customers. We employ this approach with three of the largest manufacturers of semiconductor capital equipment in the world. We believe this approach enables us to design products that meet the precise specifications our customers demand, allows us to often be the sole supplier of these subsystems during the initial production ramp , and positions us to be the preferred supplier for the full five to ten-year lifespan of the process tool. The broad technical expertise of our engineering team, coupled with our early customer engagement approach, enables us to offer innovative and reliable solutions to complex fluid delivery challenges. With two decades of experience developing complex fluid delivery subsystems and meeting the constantly changing production requirements of leading semiconductor OEMs, we have developed expertise in fluid delivery that we offer to our OEM customers. In addition, our capital efficient model provides us the flexibility to fulfill increased demand and meet changing customer requirements with relatively low levels of capital expenditures. With an aim to provide superior customer service, we have a global footprint with many facilities strategically located in close proximity to our customers. We have long standing relationships with top tier OEM customers, including Lam Research, Applied Materials, and ASML, which were our three largest customers by sales in 2020. We generated revenue of $914.2 million, $620.8 million, and $823.6 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. We generated net income of $33.3 million, $10.7 million, and $57.9 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. We generated non-GAAP net income of $59.0 million, $28.3 million, and $75.1 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. See Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Non-GAAP Results for a discussion of non-GAAP net income, an accompanying presentation of the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, net income, and a reconciliation of the differences between non-GAAP net income and net income. Our Competitive Strengths As a leader in the fluid delivery industry, we believe that our key competitive strengths include the following: Deep Fluids Engineering Expertise We believe that our engineering team, comprised of chemical engineers, mechanical engineers, and software and systems engineers, has positioned us to expand the scope of our solutions, provide innovative products and subsystems, and strengthen our incumbent position at our OEM customers. Many of our engineers are industry veterans and have spent a significant portion of their careers at our customers, bringing first-hand expertise and a heightened understanding of our customers needs. Our engineering team acts as an extension of our customers product development teams, providing our customers with technical expertise that is outside of their core competencies. Early Engagement with Customers on Product Development We seek to engage with our customers and potential customers very early in their process for new product development. We believe this approach enables us to collaborate on product design, qualification, manufacturing, and testing in order to provide a comprehensive, customized solution. Through early engagement during the complex design stages, our engineering team gains early insight into our customers technology roadmaps which enables us to pioneer innovative and advanced solutions. In many cases, our early engagement with our customers enables us to be the sole source supplier when the product is initially introduced. Long History and Strong Relationships with Top Tier Customers We have established deep relationships with top tier OEMs such as Lam Research, Applied Materials, and ASML, which were our three largest customers by sales in 2020. Our customers are global leaders by sales in the semiconductor capital equipment industry. Our existing relationships with our customers have enabled us to effectively compete for new fluid delivery subsystems for our customers next generation products in development. We leverage our deep-rooted existing customer relationships with these market leaders to penetrate new business opportunities created through industry consolidation. Our close collaboration with them has contributed to our established market position and several key supplier awards. 2 Operational Excellence with Scale to Support the Largest Customers Over our 20-year experience in designing and building fluid delivery systems, we have developed deep capabilities in operations. We have strategically located our manufacturing facilities near our customers locations in order to provide fast and efficient responses to new product introductions and accommodate configuration or design changes late in the manufacturing process. We will continue to add capacity as needed to support future growth. In addition to providing high quality and reliable fluid delivery subsystems, one of our principal strategies is delivering the lead-times that provide our customers the required flexibility needed in their production processes. We have accomplished this by investing in manufacturing systems and processes and an efficient supply chain. Our focus on operational efficiency and flexibility allows us to reduce manufacturing cycle times in order to respond quickly to customer requests and lead-times that are often less than four weeks. Capital Efficient and Scalable Business Model In general, our business is not capital intensive and we are able to grow sales with a low investment in property, plant, and equipment. In 2020, 2019, and 2018, our total capital expenditures were $10.3 million, $12.3 million, and $13.9 million, respectively, representing only 1.1%, 2.0%, and 1.7% of sales, respectively. The semiconductor capital equipment market has historically been cyclical. We have structured our business to minimize fixed manufacturing overhead and operating expenses to enable us to grow net income at a higher rate than sales during periods of growth. Conversely, our low fixed cost approach allows us to minimize the impact of cyclical downturns on our net income but results in a lower level of gross margin leverage or improvement as a percentage of sales in times of increased demand. Our Growth Strategy Our objective is to enhance our position as a leader in providing fluid delivery solutions, including subsystems, components, and tool refurbishment, to our customers by leveraging our core strengths. The key elements of our growth strategy are: Grow Our Market Share within Existing Customer Base We intend to grow our position within our existing customers by continuing to leverage our specialized engineering talent, early collaboration approach with OEMs to foster long-term relationships, and expanded product offerings. Each of our customers produces many different process tools for various process steps. At each customer, we are an outsourced supplier of fluid delivery subsystems and components for a subset of their entire process tool offerings. We are constantly looking to expand our market share at our existing customers. We believe that our early collaborative approach with customers positions us to deliver innovative and dynamic solutions, offer timely deployment and meet competitive cost targets, further increasing our market share. Through our acquisition of a precision machining operation in December 2020, an intellectual property (IP) purchase of developed flow controller technology in 2019, and our acquisitions of a weldment company and a precision machining company in 2017, we significantly expanded our served customer base and also entered the market for chemical delivery subsystems for wet process tools where we had only limited engagement in the past. Using this and our existing engineering capability, we developed a liquid delivery module and was qualified on a wet process equipment system at one of our largest customers who is a market leader in this space. Grow Our Total Available Market and Share of the Market with Expanded Product Offerings We continue to work with our existing core customers on additional opportunities, including chemical delivery, one of our important potential growth areas. We believe that wet processes, including clean and electrochemical deposition (ECD), that require precise chemical delivery are currently an underpenetrated market opportunity for us. By leveraging our existing customer relationships and strong reputation in fluid mechanics, we intend to increase our chemical delivery module market share and introduce additional related products. Through our acquisition of a precision machining operation in December 2020, our IP purchase of developed flow controller technology in 2019, our acquisition of a Korean gas panel supplier in 2018, and our acquisitions of a weldment company and a precision machining company in 2017, we significantly expanded our served customer base with expanded product offerings. The acquisitions allow us to manufacture and assemble the complex plastic and metal products and precision machined components for the semiconductor equipment, including our existing customer base, as well as medical device, and general-industrial industries, while providing us exposure to and growth opportunities in the Korean and Japanese semiconductor capital equipment market. Expand Our Total Customer Base within Fluid Delivery Market We have expanded our customer base and are currently a supplier of gas delivery systems for a leading lithography system manufacturer, a leading ALD system manufacturer, and Korean process tool OEMs. We continue to actively engage with new customers that are considering outsourcing their gas and chemical delivery needs as well as expanding our components business. 3 Continue to Improve Our Manufacturing Process Efficiency We continually strive to improve our processes to reduce our manufacturing process cycle time, improve our ability to respond to short lead-time and last minute configuration changes, reduce our manufacturing costs, and improve our inventory efficiency requirements in order to improve profitability and make our product offerings more attractive to new and existing customers. Our Products and Services We are a leader in the design, engineering and manufacturing of critical fluid delivery subsystems. Our product and service offerings are classified in the following categories: Gas Delivery Subsystems Gas delivery is among the most technologically complex functions in semiconductor capital equipment and is used to deliver, monitor and control precise quantities of the vapors and gases critical to the manufacturing process. Our gas delivery systems consist of a number of gas lines, each controlled by a series of mass flow controllers, regulators, pressure transducers, and valves, and an integrated electronic control system. Our gas delivery subsystems are primarily used in equipment for dry manufacturing processes, such as etch, chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor deposition, epitaxy, and strip. 4 Chemical Delivery Products and Subsystems Our chemical delivery products and subsystems are used to precisely blend and dispense reactive chemistries and colloidal slurries critical to the specific wet front-end process, such as wet clean, electro chemical deposition, and chemical-mechanical planarization (CMP). In addition to the chemical delivery subsystem, we also manufacture the process modules that apply the various chemicals directly to the wafer in a process and application-unique manner to create the desired chemical reaction. The image below shows a typical wet-process front end semiconductor tool, with a chemical delivery subsystem and corresponding application process module highlighted: Weldments Our complete offering of weldments support the delivery of gases through the process tool. We have developed both automated and manual welding processes to support world class workmanship on all types of metals needed to support fluid delivery within the semiconductor market. The welded assemblies are used in both wet and dry processes. Precision Machining Precision machining provides us the ability to supply our customers with components used in our gas delivery systems and weldments, while also providing custom machined solutions throughout customers equipment. Many of these items are used downstream of the gas system and in process critical applications. Our precision machined products can be used in both wet and dry applications. 5 History We were originally incorporated as Celerity, Inc. (Celerity) in 1999. Our business of designing and manufacturing critical systems for semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers operated as a stand-alone business until 2009 when Celerity sold the business to a private equity fund. Francisco Partners (FP) acquired the business in December 2011 and formed Ichor Holdings, Ltd., an exempt company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, in March 2012 to serve as the parent company as part of a restructuring to accommodate the expansion of our business in Singapore and Malaysia. In April 2012, we acquired Semi Scenic UK Limited to provide refurbishment services for legacy tools. In April 2016, we purchased Ajax-United Patterns & Molds, Inc. (Ajax) for $17.6 million to add chemical delivery subsystem capabilities with existing customers. We completed the initial public offering of our ordinary shares in December 2016. In July 2017 we acquired CalWeld, Inc. (CalWeld) for $56.2 million to add to our gas delivery subsystem and weldment capabilities. In December 2017 we acquired Talon Innovations Corporation (Talon) for $137.8 million to add to our gas delivery subsystem, precision machining, and component manufacturing capabilities. In April 2018, we acquired IAN Engineering Co., Ltd. (IAN) for $6.5 million to provide us exposure to and growth opportunities in the Korean semiconductor capital equipment market. In December 2020, we acquired certain operating assets and assumed the operations of a business in Nogales, Mexico for $5.0 million to increase our precision machined component manufacturing capacity. We intend to continue to evaluate opportunistic acquisitions to supplement our organic growth. Customers, Sales and Marketing We primarily market and sell our products directly to equipment OEMs in the semiconductor equipment market. In Japan, we utilize a value-added reseller to market and sell our chemical delivery system. We are dependent upon a small number of customers, as the semiconductor equipment manufacturer market is highly concentrated with five companies accounting for over 80% of all process tool revenues. For 2020, our two largest customers were Lam Research and Applied Materials, which accounted for 52% and 35% of sales, respectively. We do not have long-term contracts that require customers to place orders with us in fixed or minimum volumes, and we generally operate on a purchase order basis with customers. Our sales and marketing efforts focus on fostering close business relationships with our customers. As a result, we locate many of our account managers near the customer they support. Our sales process involves close collaboration between our account managers and engineering and operations teams. Account managers and engineers work together with customers and in certain cases provide on-site support, including attending customers internal meetings related to production and engineering design. Each customer project is supported by our account managers and customer support team who ensure we are aligned with all of the customers quality, cost, and delivery expectations. Operations, Manufacturing and Supply Chain Management We have developed a highly flexible manufacturing model with cost-effective locations situated nearby the manufacturing facilities of our largest customers. We have facilities in the United States, Singapore, Malaysia, the United Kingdom, Korea, and Mexico. Operations Our product cycle engagements begin by working closely with our customers to outline the solution specifications before design and prototyping even begin. Our design and manufacturing process is highly flexible, enabling our customers to make alterations to their final requirements throughout the design, engineering, and manufacturing process. This flexibility results in significantly decreased order-to-delivery cycle times for our customers. For instance, it can take as little as 20 to 30 days for us to manufacture a gas delivery system with fully evaluated performance metrics after receiving an order. Manufacturing We are ISO 9001 certified or compliant at our manufacturing locations, and our manufactured subsystems and modules adhere to strict design tolerances and specifications. We operate Class 100 and Class 10,000 clean room facilities for customer-specified testing, assembly, and integration of high-purity gas and chemical delivery systems at our locations in Singapore, Oregon, Texas, and Korea. We operate additional facilities in Malaysia, Oregon, Texas, and California for weldments and related components used in our gas delivery subsystems, and we operate facilities in California and Malaysia for critical components used in our chemical delivery subsystems. We operate facilities in Minnesota and Mexico for precision machining of components for sale to our customers and internal use. Many of our facilities are located in close proximity to our largest customers to allow us to collaborate with them on a regular basis and to enable us to deliver our products on a just-in-time basis, regardless of order size or the degree of changes in the applicable configuration or specifications. 6 We qualify and test key components that are integrated into our subsystems and test our fluid delivery subsystems during the design process and again prior to shipping. Our quality management system allows us to access real-time corrective action reports, non-conformance reports, customer complaints , and controlled documentation. In addition, our senior management conducts quarterly reviews of our quality control system to evaluate effectiveness. Our customers also complete quarterly surveys which allow us to measure satisfaction. Supply Chain Management We use a wide range of components and materials in the production of our gas and chemical delivery systems, including filters, mass flow controllers, regulators, pressure transducers, and valves. We obtain components and materials from a large number or sources, including single source and sole source suppliers. We use consignment material and just-in-time stocking programs to better manage our component inventories and better respond to changing customer requirements. These approaches enable us to significantly reduce our inventory levels and maintain flexibility in responding to changes in product demand. A key part of our strategy is to identify multiple suppliers with a strong global reach that are located within close proximity to our manufacturing locations. Technology Development and Engineering We have a long history of engineering innovation and development. We continue to transition from being an integration engineering and components company into a gas and chemical delivery system and subsystem leader with product development and systems engineering, as well as integration expertise. Our industry continues to experience rapid technological change, requiring us to continuously invest in technology and product development and regularly introduce new products and features that meet our customers evolving requirements. We have built a team of fluid delivery experts. As of December 25, 2020, our engineering team consisted of approximately 90 engineers and designers with mechanical, electrical, chemical, systems, and software expertise. Our engineers are closely connected with our customers and typically work at our customers sites and operate as an extension of our customers design team. We engineer within our customers processes, design vaults, drawing standards, and part numbering systems. These development efforts are designed to meet specific customer requirements in the areas of subsystem design, materials, component selection, and functionality. The majority of our sales are generated from projects during which our engineers cooperated with our customer early in the design cycle. Through this early collaborative process, we become an integral part of our customers design and development processes, and we are able to quickly anticipate and respond to our customers changing requirements. Our engineering team also works directly with our suppliers to help them identify new component technologies and make necessary changes in, and enhancements to, the components that we integrate into our products. Our analytical and testing capabilities enable us to evaluate multiple supplier component technologies and provide customers with a wide range of appropriate component and design choices for their gas and chemical delivery systems and other critical subsystems. Our analytical and testing capabilities also help us anticipate technological changes and the requirements in component features for next-generation gas delivery systems and other critical subsystems. Competition The markets for our products are very competitive. When we compete for new business, we face competition from other suppliers of gas or chemical delivery subsystems, and in some cases with the internal manufacturing groups of OEMs. While many OEMs have outsourced the design and manufacturing of their gas and chemical delivery systems, we would face additional competition if in the future these OEMs elected to develop and build these systems internally. The fluid delivery subsystem market is concentrated, and we face competition primarily from Ultra Clean Technology, with additional competition from regional suppliers. The chemical delivery subsystem, weldments, and precision machining industries are fragmented, and we face competition from numerous smaller suppliers. In addition, the market for tool refurbishment is fragmented, and we compete with many regional competitors. The primary competitive factors we emphasize include: customer relationships; early engagement with customers; large and experienced engineering staff; design-to-delivery cycle times; and flexible manufacturing capabilities. 7 We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that could adversely affect sales of our current and future products. In addition, the limited number of potential customers in our industry further intensifies competition. We anticipate that increased competitive pressures may cause intensified price-based competition and we may have to reduce the prices of our products. In addition, we expect to face new competitors as we enter new markets. Intellectual Property Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, maintain, and protect our technology and products and to conduct our business without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We continue to invest in securing intellectual property protection for our technology and products and protect our technology by, among other things, filing patent applications. We also rely on a combination of trade secrets and confidentiality provisions, and to a much lesser extent, copyrights and trademarks, to protect our proprietary rights. We have historically focused our patent protection efforts in the United States. As of December 25, 2020, we held 52 patents, 24 of which were U.S. patents and 14 of which were acquired as part of our IP purchase of developed flow controller technology in May 2019. While we consider our patents to be valuable assets, we do not believe the success of our business or our overall operations are dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, we do not believe that the loss or expiration of any single patent or group of related patents would materially affect our business. We develop intellectual property for our own use in our products, as well as for our customers. Intellectual property developed on behalf of our customers is generally owned exclusively by those customers. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify certain of our customers against claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others with respect to our products. Historically, we have not paid any claims under these indemnification obligations, and we do not have any pending indemnification claims against us. Human Capital Resources In order to be a successful company, we believe that we must be a good corporate citizen, socially responsible, and recognize that our employees are our most important asset. We recognize and value each persons diverse background and unique skill set and seek to foster an environment that encourages personal growth and professional development. We continue to further increase our commitment to diversity, inclusion, and equity through specific policies, practices, employee and manager training, and demonstrated executive leadership. Below are details demonstrating our commitment in this area. Demographics As of December 25, 2020, we had approximately 1,600 fulltime employees and 430 contract or temporary workers, which allow flexibility as business conditions and geographic demand change. Of our total workforce, approximately 90 are engineers, 80 are engaged in sales and marketing, 1,715 are engaged in manufacturing, and 145 perform executive and administrative functions. Our voluntary attrition was 12%, reduced from 15% from the prior year. Our employees are not unionized, and we have no participation in works councils. We have not experienced any material work stoppages at any of our facilities, with the exception of temporary shutdowns at certain of our facilities in the first half of 2020 due to the COVID19 pandemic. We believe our relationship with our employees to be good. Total Rewards As part of our total rewards philosophy, we believe in offering market-competitive compensation and benefits programs for our employees to attract and retain a talented and productive workforce. Our programs are designed to be externally competitive, internally fair and equitable, and our pay-for-performance philosophy aims to reward each individual for their contributions while striving for equal pay for work regardless of gender, race, or ethnicity. We offer a combination of fixed and variable pay which can vary by business and function. For our leadership and key talent, we provide equity based long-term compensation to create retention and incentive towards the companys strategies and objectives. We provide benefits that are locally competitive, including retirement and savings plans with company contributions, health and welfare plans aimed to provide protection to employees, and in some instances, protection for employees families, and we provide a discounted employee stock purchase plan. We invest in wellness programs to promote physical, emotional, and financial well-being. In 2020, we expanded our employee cash spot bonus program to recognize employee contributions in improving quality and operational cost savings. 8 Learning and Development We support our employees in their career development by providing a multi-dimensional approach to learning and development, including internal and external opportunities for professional development. This includes tuition reimbursement, online training, on the job training, diversity and inclusion training, and managerial coaching. We actively invest in leadership development, cultivating involvement, engagement, and empowerment of our future leaders in an active investment in succession planning and development. We also believe that maintaining an effective employee review and appraisal process, with regular managerial feedback and coaching, is critical to cultivating a learning organization. Health and Safety We are committed to monitoring and maintaining a healthy and safe environment for our employees. We facilitate skip level sessions, periodically survey employees, and use other communication forums to allow employees to express their opinions and concerns to management. We maintain a "whistle blower" hotline available to all employees for communicating concerns, including those around health and safety. During the COVID19 pandemic, we took necessary steps to ensure the health and safety of our employees and extended communities by following and often exceeding CDC and other government health organization guidelines from around the world. We adopted remote working as a new norm for office staff and made a significant investment in our IT infrastructure to enable uninterrupted virtual communication. For factory workers, we adopted strict guidelines to maintain safety of our workforce and business continuity. Community Involvement We have expanded our charitable contributions this past year to include educational scholarships specifically earmarked for under-represented minority groups attending college. We continue to support foodbanks and other local charities in the communities in which we operate. Environmental, Health, and Safety Regulations Our operations and facilities are subject to federal, state, and local regulatory requirements and foreign laws and regulations, relating to environmental, waste management, and health and safety matters, including those relating to the release, use, storage, treatment, transportation, discharge, disposal, and remediation of contaminants, hazardous substances, and wastes, as well as practices and procedures applicable to the construction and operation of our facilities. We believe that our business is operated in substantial compliance with applicable regulations. However, in the future we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines or civil or criminal sanctions, or third-party property damage, or personal injury claims, in the event of violations or liabilities under these laws and regulations, or non-compliance with the environmental permits required at our facilities. Potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with environmental laws that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We are not aware of any threatened or pending environmental investigations, lawsuits, or claims involving us, our operations, or our current or former facilities. Available Information Our internet address is ichorsystems.com . We make a variety of information available, free of charge, at our Investor Relations website, ir.ichorsystems.com . This information includes our Annual Reports on Form 10K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10Q, our Current Reports on Form 8K, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those reports with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as well as our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and other governance documents. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file documents electronically with the SEC at sec.gov . The contents of these websites, or the information connected to those websites, are not incorporated into this report. References to websites in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. 9 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that affect our business and the results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some important factors that may cause the actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. Risk Factor Summary The following is a summary of some important risk factors that could adversely affect our business, operations, and financial results. Economic and Strategic Risks Our business depends significantly on expenditures by manufacturers in the semiconductor capital equipment industry. We rely on a very small number of OEM customers for a significant portion of our sales. Our customers exert a significant amount of negotiating leverage over us. The industries in which we participate are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. We are exposed to risks associated with weakness in the global economy and geopolitical instability. Our business has been adversely affected by the COVID19 pandemic and we continue to face risks related to COVID19. If we do not keep pace with developments in the industries we serve and with technological innovation generally, our products and services may not be competitive. We must design, develop, and introduce new products that are accepted by OEMs in order to retain our existing customers and obtain new customers. Future acquisitions may present integration challenges, and the goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, and other long-term assets recorded in connection with such acquisitions become impaired. We are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Operational Risks The manufacturing of our products is highly complex. Defects in our products could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products. We may incur unexpected warranty and performance guarantee claims. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers may harm our production output and increase our costs. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. Our customers generally require that they qualify our engineering, documentation, manufacturing and quality control procedures. We may be subject to interruptions or failures in our information technology systems. Certain of our customers require that we consult with them in connection with specified fundamental changes in our business. Our business is largely dependent on the know-how of our employees, and we generally do not have an intellectual property position that is protected by patents. The technology labor market is very competitive. Labor disruptions could materially adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to the risks of catastrophic events. Legal and Regulatory Risks Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws, rules, policies, and other obligations regarding privacy, data protection, and other matters. Third parties have claimed and may in the future claim we are infringing their intellectual property. From time to time, we may become involved in other litigation and regulatory proceedings. As a global company, we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. Changes in U.S. trade policy, tariff, and import/export regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and the failure to maintain an effective system of internal