Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be an indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Our revenues and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and such fluctuations may lead to a reduced market price for our stock. Our revenues and operating results have varied in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful, but securities analysts and investors often rely upon these comparisons as indicators of future performance. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, or the guidance that we provide, the market price of our stock would likely decline. Factors that have caused our results to fluctuate in the past and which are likely to affect us in the future include the following: business and economic conditions overall and in our markets; the timing and size of customer orders, including orders that may be tied to annual or other budgetary cycles, seasonal demand, product plans or program roll-out schedules; the effects of the U.S. Government shut downs, spending cuts and other changes in budget allocation or availability that create uncertainty for customers in certain parts of our business; the absence of significant backlog in our business; cancellations or delays of customer orders or the loss of a significant customer; 11 the length of sales cycles associated with our product or service offerings; variations in the mix of products and services we sell; reductions in the average selling prices that we are able to charge due to competition, new product introductions or other factors; our ability to obtain an adequate supply of quality components and to deliver our products on a timely basis; our inventory levels and the inventory levels of our customers and indirect sales channels; the extent to which we invest in development, sales and marketing, and other expense categories; acquisitions, dispositions or organizational restructuring; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar; the cost or impact of litigation; and the write-off of investments. Estimating the amount and mix of future revenues is difficult, and our failure to do so accurately could affect our ability to be profitable or reduce the market price for our stock. Accurately estimating future revenues is difficult because the purchasing patterns of our customers can vary depending upon a number of factors. We sell our smart card readers primarily through a channel of distributors who place orders on an ongoing basis depending on their customers requirements. As a result, the size and timing of these orders can vary from quarter to quarter. Market demand for RFID and NFC technology is resulting in larger program deployments of these products and components, as well as increasing competition for these solutions. Across our business, the timing of closing larger orders increases the risk of quarter-to-quarter fluctuation in revenues. If orders forecasted for a specific group of customers for a particular quarter are not realized or revenues are not otherwise recognized in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could be materially adversely affected, as was the case in the fourth quarter of 2019, for example. In addition, from time to time, we may experience an unexpected increase or decrease in demand for our products resulting from fluctuations in our customers budgets, purchasing patterns or deployment schedules. These occurrences are not always predictable and can have a significant impact on our results in the period in which they occur. Failure to accurately forecast customer demand may result in excess or obsolete inventory, which if written down might adversely impact our cost of revenues and financial condition. In addition, our expense levels are based, in significant part, upon our expectations as to future revenues and are largely fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Any significant shortfall in revenues in relation to our expectations could have an immediate and significant effect on our operating results for that quarter and may lead to a reduced market price for our stock. Our loan covenants may affect our liquidity or limit our ability to incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. On February 8, 2017, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with East West Bank ("EWB"). The Loan and Security Agreement, as amended, with EWB provided for a $20.0 million revolving loan facility (the Revolving Loan Facility). On January 28, 2020, we entered into an amendment (the Twelfth Amendment) to our Loan and Security Agreement with EWB, which provided a new term loan facility (EWB Term Loan) in a principal amount of $4.5 million and reduced the revolving loan facility under the Loan and Security Agreement from $20.0 million to $15.5 million. Our obligations under the agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets. The Revolving Loan Facility contains customary representations and warranties and customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, limits or restrictions on our ability to incur liens, incur indebtedness, make certain restricted payments, merge or consolidate and dispose of assets. The Revolving Loan Facility also contains various financial covenants. In addition, the Revolving Loan Facility contains customary events of default that entitle EWB to cause any or all of our indebtedness under the Revolving Loan Facility to become immediately due and payable. The events of default (some of which are subject to applicable grace or cure periods), include, among other things, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults and material judgment defaults. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, EWB may terminate their lending commitments and/or declare all or any part of the unpaid principal of all loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon and all other amounts payable under the Loan and Security Agreement to be immediately due and payable. If repayment of the indebtedness is accelerated, we could face a substantial liquidity problem and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. 12 Such alternative measures may not be available or successful. Also, our loan covenants may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operation s or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Even if we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, the economic terms may not be favorable to us. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and res ults of operations. Our ability to make periodic interest payments and to repay our debt when due depends on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and other factors. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our in debtedness. Such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations . If we are not able to secure additional capital when needed, our business could be adversely affected. We may seek or need to raise additional funds for general corporate and commercial purposes or for acquisitions. Our ability to obtain financing depends on our historical and expected future operating and financial performance, and is also subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to secure additional financing when desired, our ability to fund our business operations, make capital expenditures, pursue additional expansion or acquisition opportunities, or have resources available to capitalize on other opportunities could be limited, and this could adversely impact our financial results. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. The sale of additional debt or equity securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders. Any debt or equity securities issued may also provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock and could impose significant restrictions on our operations. In addition, any capital we raise may be restricted with respect to use. Acquisitions and strategic investments require substantial resources, expose us to significant risks and may adversely impact our business. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to acquire or make investments in companies, products or technologies that we believe complement or augment our existing business, product offerings or technology portfolio. On November 2, 2018, we acquired Thursby Software Systems, Inc., or Thursby, for $3.1 million in cash, net of cash acquired, and common stock. In the event that revenue from Thursby products met certain thresholds, we would have been obligated to issue earnout consideration payable in shares of our common stock, subject to certain conditions. Additionally, if 2020 revenue from Thursby products exceeds $15.0 million, we will be obligated to issue an additional $2.5 million in earnout consideration payable in shares of our common stock. The maximum total earnout consideration payable for all periods is $7.5 million in the aggregate, payable in shares of our common stock. On January 2, 2019, we completed the purchase of substantially all the assets of the Freedom, Liberty, and Enterphone MESH products and services of Viscount Systems, Inc., or VSI, and the assumption of certain liabilities for $3.2 million in cash and common stock. Additionally, in the event that revenue from the assets purchased under the agreement in 2019 is greater than certain specified revenue targets, we will be obligated to issue earnout consideration of up to a maximum of $3.5 million payable in shares of our common stock. At the date of acquisition, we assessed the probability of the issuance of shares related to the earnout consideration and determined its fair value to be $200,000. In the third and fourth quarter of 2019, we reassessed the probability and increased the fair value of the earnout consideration liability by $550,000 to $750,000. This increase was included in operating expenses in the Companys consolidated statements of operations. In the event that such revenue targets are not met in 2019, but 2020 revenue from the assets purchased exceeds certain higher targets for 2020, then we will be obligated to issue up to a maximum of $2.25 million in earnout consideration payable in shares of our common stock. Acquiring and integrating acquired businesses and assets into our business exposes us to certain risks. Executing acquisition or investment transactions and assimilating personnel and operations from an acquired business may require significant attention and resources, which may divert the attention of our management and employees from day-to-day operations and disrupt our business. This may adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurances that the expected benefits of any acquisitions will be achieved. The costs associated with an acquisition may be significant, whether or not the acquisition transaction is successfully concluded. As a result, acquisition activities may reduce the amount of capital available to fund our business. To purchase another company or assets, we may be required to issue additional equity securities, which would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. A cquisitions may result in the assumption of additional liabilities or debt, including unanticipated liabilities, or charges to earnings for such items as amortization of purchased intangibles or in-process research and development expenses. Such liabilities, indebtedness or charges could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions and strategic investments may also lead to substantial increases in non-current assets, including goodwill. Write-downs of these assets due to unforeseen business developments may materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Additionally, we have in the past acquired companies that we have subsequently divested, in some cases for less than we paid to acquire the companies. Such divestitures involve risks, such as difficulty separating out portions of or entire businesses, distracting our management and employees, potential loss of revenue and potentially disrupting customer relationships. We have and may again in the future incur significant costs associated with exit or disposal activities, related impa irment charges, or both, if we exit or divest a business or product line. If we are not able to successfully integrate or divest products, technologies, or personnel from businesses that we acquire or divest, or if we are not able to realize the expected b enefits of our acquisitions, divestitures, or strategic investments, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Impairment in the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We record goodwill and intangible assets at fair value upon the acquisition of a business. Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for acquiring businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually or more frequently if conditions warrant, by comparing the carrying value of a reporting unit to its estimated fair value. Intangible assets with definite lives are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Declines in operating results, divestitures, sustained market declines and other factors that impact the fair value of a reporting unit could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets and, in turn, a charge to net income. Any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our business and reputation may adversely affected by information technology system failures or network disruptions. We may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. These may be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or other events or disruptions. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions could compromise company or customer data and result in delayed or cancelled orders and expose us to liability. System failures and disruptions could also impede the manufacturing and shipping of products, delivery of online services, processing of transactions and reporting of financial results. In addition, any such failures or disruptions could harm our reputation. Our success depends largely on the continued service and availability of key personnel. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate our senior management as well as qualified technical personnel, particularly software engineers. Competition for these employees is intense and many of our competitors may have greater name recognition and significantly greater financial resources to better compete for these employees. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, or attract and train additional qualified personnel, our growth may be limited. All of our key employees are employed on an at will basis, meaning either we or the employee may terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of key employees could slow our product development processes and sales efforts or harm our reputation. Also, our low stock price may result in difficulty attracting and retaining personnel as equity incentives generally comprise a significant portion of our employee compensation. Further, restructurings and reductions in force that we have recently experienced may have a negative effect on employee morale and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our business could be adversely affected by reductions or delays in the purchase of our products or services for government security programs in the United States and globally. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from indirect sales to U.S. federal, state and local governments and government agencies, as well as from subcontracts under federal government prime contracts. Large government programs are an important market for our business, as high-security systems employing physical access, smart card, RFID or other access control technologies are increasingly used to enable applications ranging from authorizing building and network access for federal employees to paying taxes online, to citizen identification, to receiving health care. We believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to be influenced by our successful procurement of government business either directly or through our indirect sales channels. Accordingly, changes in government purchasing policies or government budgetary constraints, including government shutdowns, could directly affect our financial performance. Sales to government agencies and customers primarily serving the U.S. Government, including further sales pursuant to existing contracts, may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, such as, federal government shutdowns or other Congressional actions to reduce federal spending, and by adverse economic, political or market conditions. A reduction in current or future anticipated sales to the U.S. Government sector could harm our results of operations. Additionally, we anticipate that an increasingly significant portion of our future revenues will come from government programs outside the U.S., such as electronic national identity, eGovernment and eHealth programs. We currently supply smart card readers, RFID products and credential provisioning and management solutions for various government programs in Europe, Asia and Australia 14 and are actively targeti ng additional programs in these and other geographic areas. However, the allocation and availability of funding for such programs are often impacted by economic or political factors over which we have no control, and which may cause delays in program imple mentation, which could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. The recent coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) was reported to have surfaced in Wuhan, China and has since spread to other parts of the world. The impact of the outbreak of COVID-19 on the businesses and the economy in China and the rest of the world is unknown. If the impact is significant, the outbreak could impact our ability to develop business, conduct operations, and obtain components used in our solutions in any region that is significantly impacted by the outbreak. The extent to which COVID-19 outbreak will impact business and the economy is highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Accordingly, we cannot predict the extent to which our financial condition and results of operations will be affected. Our revenues may decline if we cannot compete successfully in an intensely competitive market. We target our products at the rapidly evolving market for security technologies. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, purchasing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products or solutions and may be able to deliver competitive products or solutions at a lower end user price. We also experience indirect competition from certain of our customers who currently offer alternative products or solutions or are expected to introduce competitive offerings in the future. For example, in our Premises business, many of our dealer channel partners act as system integrators, providing installation and service, and therefore carry competitive lines of products and systems. This is a common practice within the industry as the integrators need access to multiple lines in order to support all potential service and user requirements. Depending on the technical competence of their sales forces, the comfort level of their technical staff with our systems and price pressures from customers, these integrators may choose to offer a competitors product. There is also business pressure to provide some level of sales to all vendors to maintain access to a range of products and systems. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products and solutions include: the extent to which products and systems must support evolving industry standards and provide interoperability; the extent to which products are differentiated based on technical features, quality and reliability, ease of use, strength of distribution channels and price; the ability to quickly develop new products and solutions to satisfy new market and customer requirements; and the total cost of ownership including installation, maintenance and expansion capability of systems. Increased competition and increased market volatility in our industry could result in lower prices, reduced margins or the failure of our product and service offerings to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could have a serious adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our percentage of revenue and customer concentration is significant in certain of our businesses. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 24% of total net revenue in 2019 and 28% of total net revenue in 2018. No customer accounted for 10% or more of our total net revenue in 2019 or 2018. A significant amount of revenue is sourced from sales of products and systems to our original equipment manufacturer partners and an indirect sales network who sell to various entities within the U.S. federal government sector. We cannot guarantee that future reductions in U.S. Government budgets will not impact our sales to these government entities or that the terms of existing contracts will not be subject to renegotiation. Our loss of one or more significant customers could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business will not be successful if we do not keep up with the rapid changes in our industry. The market for security products and related services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. To be competitive, we have to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services, particularly in response to competitive offerings, and quickly demonstrate the value of new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services. Our failure to develop and introduce new products and 15 services successfully on a timely basis and to achieve market acceptance for such products and services could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condit ion and results of operations. Security breaches, whether or not related to our products, could result in the disclosure of sensitive government information or private personal information that could result in the loss of clients and negative publicity. Many of the systems we sell manage private personal information or protect sensitive information related to our customers in the government or commercial markets. A well-publicized actual or perceived breach of network or computer security in one of these systems, regardless of whether such a breach is attributable to our products, could adversely affect the markets perception of us and our products, and could result in the loss of customers, have an adverse effect on our reputation and reduce demand for our products. As part of our technical support services, we agree, from time to time, to possess all or a portion of the security system database of our customers. This service is subject to a number of risks. For example, despite our security measures our systems may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers, physical break-ins and service disruptions that could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could be very expensive to correct, could damage our reputation and result in the loss of customers, and could discourage potential customers from using our services. We could also be liable for damages and penalties. Although we have not experienced a cyber or physical security breach, we may experience such attempts in the future. Our systems also may be affected by outages, delays and other difficulties. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses and liabilities that may result from such events. Sales of our products could decline and we could be subject to legal claims for damages if our products are found to have defects. Despite our testing efforts, our products may contain defects that are not detected until after the products have been shipped. The discovery of defects or potential defects may result in damage to our reputation, delays in market acceptance of our products and additional expenditures to resolve issues related to the products implementation. If we are unable to provide a solution to actual or potential product defects that is acceptable to our customers, we may be required to incur substantial costs for product recall, repair and replacement, or costs related to legal or warranty claims made against us. The global nature of our business exposes us to operational and financial risks and our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to manage them effectively. We market and sell our products and solutions to customers in many countries around the world. To support our global sales, customer base and product development activities, we maintain offices and/or business operations in several locations around the world, including Germany, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Singapore, Canada, and the U.S. We also maintain manufacturing facilities in Singapore and California and engage contract manufacturers in multiple countries outside the U.S . Managing our global development, sales, administrative and manufacturing operations places a significant burden on our management resources and our financial processes and exposes us to various risks, including: longer accounts receivable collection cycles; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; compliance with and changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements; changes in political or economic conditions and stability, particularly in emerging markets; difficulties managing widespread sales and manufacturing operations; export controls; less effective protection of our intellectual property; and potentially adverse tax consequences. Any failure to effectively mitigate these risks and effectively manage our global operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 16 A significant portion of our revenue is through an indirect sales channel, and the loss of dealers, systems integrators, resellers, or other channel partners could result in decreased revenue. We currently use an indirect sales channel that includes dealers, systems integrators, value added resellers and resellers to sell a significant portion of our products and solutions, primarily into markets or to customers where the channel partner may have closer customer relationships or greater access than we do. Some of these channel partners also sell our competitors products, and if they favor our competitors products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote necessary resources that result in sales of our products, which would cause our sales to suffer. Indirect selling arrangements are intended to benefit both us and the channel partner, and may be long- or short-term relationships, depending on market conditions, competition in the marketplace and other factors. If we are unable to maintain effective indirect sales channels, there could be a reduction in the amount of product we are able to sell, and our revenues could decrease. We depend upon third-party manufacturers and a limited number of suppliers, and if we experience disruptions in our supply chain or manufacturing, our business may suffer. We rely upon a limited number of suppliers for some key components of our products which exposes us to various risks, including whether or not our suppliers will provide adequate quantities with sufficient quality on a timely basis and the risk that supplier pricing may be higher than anticipated. In addition, some of the basic components used in some of our products, such as semiconductors, may at any time be in great demand. This could result in components not being available to us in a timely manner or at all, particularly if larger companies have ordered significant volumes of those components, or in higher prices being charged for components we require. Disruption or termination of the supply of components or software used in our products could delay shipments of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers. Many of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. by contract manufacturers. Our reliance on these manufactures poses a number of risks, including lack of control over the manufacturing process and ultimately over the quality and timing of delivery of our products. If any of our contract manufacturers cannot meet our production requirements, we may be required to rely on other contract manufacturing sources or identify and qualify new contract manufacturers, and we may not be able to do this in a timely manner or on reasonable terms. Additionally, we may be subject to currency fluctuations, potentially adverse tax consequences, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, export controls, or political and economic instability. Any significant delay in our ability to obtain adequate supplies of our products from our current or alternative manufacturers could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, if we are not successful at managing the contract manufacturing process, the quality of our products could be jeopardized or inventory levels could be inadequate or excessive, which could result in damage to our reputation with our customers and in the marketplace, as well as possible shortages of products or write-offs of excess inventory. Our U.S. Government business depends upon the continuance of regulations that require federal agencies to implement security systems such as ours, and upon our ability to receive certain government approvals or certifications and demonstrate compliance in government audits or investigations. A failure to receive these government approvals or certifications or a negative audit result could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we are not able to quantify the amount of sales made to end customers in the U.S. Government market due to the indirect nature of our selling process, we believe that orders from U.S. Government agencies represent a significant portion of our revenues. The U.S. Government, suppliers to the U.S. Government and certain industries in the public sector currently fall, or may in the future fall, under particular regulations that require federal agencies to implement security systems that utilize physical and logical access control products and solutions such as ours. These regulations include, but are not limited to HSPD 12 and FIPS 201 produced by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Discontinuance of, changes in, or lack of adoption of laws or regulations pertaining to security related to sales to end customers in the U.S. Government market could adversely affect our sales. Our U.S. Government business is also dependent upon the receipt of certain governmental approvals or certifications and failure to receive such approvals or certifications could have a material adverse effect on our sales in those market segments for which such approvals or certifications are customary or required. Government agencies in the U.S. and other countries may audit our business as part of their routine audits and investigations of government procurement programs. Based on the outcome of any such audit, if any of our costs are found to be improperly allocated to a specific order, those costs may not be reimbursed, and any costs already reimbursed for such order may have to be refunded. If a government agency audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions. A negative audit could materially affect our competitive position and result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other major currencies in which we do business may adversely affect our busine ss, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our business is conducted in foreign currencies, principally the euro and Indian Rupee. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will result in currency exchange gains and losses in our reported results. If a significant portion of operating expenses are incurred in a foreign currency such as the euro or Indian Rupee, and revenues are generated in U.S. dollars, exchange rate fluctuations might have a positive or negative net financial impact on these transactions, depending on whether the value of the U.S. dollar decreases or increases compared to that currency. In addition, the valuation of current assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency can result in currency exchange gains and losses. For example, when one of our subsidiaries uses the euro as the functional currency, and this subsidiary has a receivable in U.S. dollars, a devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the euro of 10% would result in a foreign exchange loss to the reporting entity of 10% of the value of the underlying U.S. dollar receivable. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. The effect of currency exchange rate changes may increase or decrease our costs and/or revenues in any given period, and we may experience currency losses in the future. To date, we have not adopted a hedging program to protect against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could make us less competitive and cause us to lose market share. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our intellectual property rights and our ability to protect these rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights. From time to time, we may be required to use litigation to protect our proprietary technology. This may result in our incurring substantial costs and we may not be successful in any such litigation. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized third parties may copy aspects of our products, obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, or infringe upon our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws in the U.S. Because many of our products are sold and a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., our exposure to intellectual property risks may be higher. Our efforts to protect our proprietary and intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Additionally, there is a risk that our competitors will independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products or design around patents or other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property or our products or technologies are duplicated by others, our competitive position could be harmed and we could lose market share. We face risks from future claims of third parties and litigation, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. From time to time, we may be subject to claims of third parties, possibly resulting in litigation, which could include, among other things, claims regarding infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties, product defects, employment-related claims, and claims related to acquisitions, dispositions or restructurings. Addressing any such claims or litigation may be time-consuming and costly, divert management resources, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, require us to accept returns of products and to write-off inventory, or result in other adverse effects to our business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could require us to pay significant monetary damages. We expect the likelihood of intellectual property infringement and misappropriation claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in the security market grows and as we increasingly incorporate third-party technology into our products. As a result of infringement claims, we could be required to license intellectual property from a third party or redesign our products. Licenses may not be offered when required or on acceptable terms. If we do obtain licenses from third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or royalties or we may be required to license some of our intellectual property to others in return for such licenses. If we are unable to obtain a license necessary for us or our third-party manufacturers to manufacture our allegedly infringing products, we could be required to suspend the manufacture of products or stop our suppliers from using processes that may infringe the rights of third parties. We may also be unsuccessful in redesigning our products. Our suppliers and customers may be subject to infringement claims based on intellectual property included in our products. We have historically agreed to indemnify our suppliers and customers for patent infringement claims relating to our products. The scope of this indemnity varies, but may, in some instances, include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorneys fees. We may periodically engage in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. Our insurance policies exclude coverage for third-party claims for patent infringement. 18 Our stock price has been and is likely to remain vol atile. Over the past few years, The Nasdaq Capital Market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of the stocks of technology companies. Volatility in our stock price may result from a number of factors, including, among others: low volumes of trading activity in our stock; technical trading patterns of our stock; variations in our or our competitors financial and/or operational results; the fluctuation in market value of comparable companies in any of our markets; expected or announced news about partner relationships, customer wins or losses, product announcements or organizational changes; comments and forecasts by securities analysts; litigation developments; global developments, including war, acts of terrorism, contagions such as COVID-19, and other such events; and general market downturns. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation. We have been named as a defendant in putative securities class action and derivative lawsuits. These lawsuits and other litigation could cause us to incur substantial expenses and divert our attention and resources. Securities class action lawsuits have often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies such as ours in the technology industry are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the volatility of their stock prices. We and a number of our current and former officers and directors were defendants in a putative class action lawsuit that was dismissed without prejudice in March 2018 and are defendants in derivative litigation, which is discussed in the Section, entitled Legal Proceedings. Any litigation to which we are a party has and may continue to result in the diversion of management attention and resources from our business and business strategy. In addition, any litigation to which we are a party may result in onerous or unfavorable judgments that may not be reversed upon appeal and that may require us to pay substantial monetary damages or fines, or we may decide to settle lawsuits on similarly unfavorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition or results of operations. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our stock, and future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price. We have issued a significant number of shares of our common stock, together with warrants to purchase shares of our common stock and convertible preferred stock, in connection with a number of financing transactions and acquisitions in recent years. In the future, from time to time we may issue additional previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in additional dilution of the ownership interests of our current stockholders. In addition, we have reserved shares of common stock for potential future issuance including stock issuable pursuant to our equity incentive plans, as contingent consideration related to previous acquisitions, the conversion of our preferred stock and warrants issued in connection with previous capital raises and other transactions. As of March 9, 2020, 1,733,803 shares of common stock are reserved for future grants and outstanding equity awards under our equity incentive plans and an additional 8,992,996 shares of common stock are reserved for future issuance in connection with other potential issuances. We may issue additional shares of common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for shares of common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future financings or for other business purposes. If we issue additional securities, the aggregate percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced. In addition, any new securities that we issue may have rights senior to those of our common stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock or other securities, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. 19 If current or future export laws limit or otherwise restrict our business, we could be prohibited from shipping our products to certain countries, which could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. Some of our products are subject to export controls or other laws restricting the sale of our products under the laws of the U.S., the European Union (EU) and other governments. The export regimes and the governing policies applicable to our business are subject to change. We cannot be certain that such export authorizations will be available to us or for our products in the future. In some cases, we rely upon the compliance activities of our prime contractors, and we cannot be certain they have taken or will take all measures necessary to comply with applicable export laws. If we or our prime contractor partners cannot obtain required government approvals under applicable regulations, we may not be able to sell our products in certain international jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits and other tax matters may adversely affect our future results. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act), which significantly changed prior U.S. tax law and includes numerous provisions that affect our business. Accounting for these provisions in fiscal 2017 required the use of provisional estimates in our financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for the Tax Act's provisions. As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the Tax Act, and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may materially differ from previous estimates, and those differences may materially affect our financial position. The net impact of such changes are uncertain, and could adversely affect our tax rate and cash flow in future years. A number of other factors may impact our tax position as well, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; and the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any of these factors could make it more difficult for us to project or achieve expected tax results. An increase or decrease in our tax liabilities due to these or other factors could adversely affect our financial results in future periods. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent our acquisition by another company, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or enter into a material transaction with us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include a classified board of directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent. Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. These provisions will apply even if the offer were to be considered adequate by some of our stockholders. Because these provisions may be deemed to discourage a change of control, they may delay or prevent the acquisition of our company, which could decrease the value of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 ITEM 2. PR OPERTIES Our corporate headquarters are located in Fremont, California and we maintain operational headquarters in Santa Ana, California. We lease additional facilities to house our engineering, sales and marketing, administrative and manufacturing functions. At December 31, 2019, our major facilities consisted of the following: Location Function Square Feet Lease Expiration Fremont, California Corporate headquarters 5,678 November 2020 Santa Ana, California Administration; manufacturing; research and development 34,599 January 2023 Arlington, Texas Administration; sales 5,700 October 2023 Vancouver, Canada Manufacturing; research and development 7,206 December 2025 Sauerlach, Germany European operations; research and development; sales 5,156 April 2020 Chennai, India Research and development 17,500 October 2020 Singapore RFID/NFC product manufacturing 16,060 May 2020 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS On January 1, 2016, certain of our present and former officers and directors were named as defendants, and we were named as nominal defendant, in a shareholder derivative lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, entitled Oswald v. Humphreys, et al., Case No. 16-cv-00241-CRB, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and waste claims. On January 25, 2016, certain of our present and former officers and directors were named as defendants, and we were named as nominal defendant, in a shareholder derivative lawsuit filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Alameda, entitled Chopra v. Hart, et al., Case No. RG16801379, alleging breach of fiduciary duty claims. On February 9, 2016, certain of our present and former officers and directors were named as defendants, and we were named as nominal defendant, in a shareholder derivative lawsuit filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Alameda, entitled Wollnik v. Wenzel, et al., Case No. HG16803342, alleging breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste, gross mismanagement, and unjust enrichment claims. These lawsuits generally allege that we made false and/or misleading statements and/or failed to disclose information in certain public filings and disclosures between 2013 and 2015. Each of the lawsuits seeks one or more of the following remedies: unspecified compensatory damages, unspecified exemplary or punitive damages, restitution, declaratory relief, equitable and injunctive relief, and reasonable costs and attorneys fees. On May 2, 2016, the court in the Chopra lawsuit entered an order staying proceedings in the Chopra lawsuit in favor of the Oswald lawsuit, based on a stipulation to that effect filed by the parties in the Chopra lawsuit on April 28, 2016. Similarly, on June 28, 2016, the court in the Wollnik lawsuit entered a stipulated order staying proceedings in the Wollnik lawsuit in favor of the Oswald lawsuit. On June 17, 2016, the plaintiff in the Oswald lawsuit filed an amended complaint. On August 1, 2016, we filed a motion to dismiss for failure by plaintiff to make a pre-lawsuit demand on our board of directors, which motion was heard on October 14, 2016. The judge in the Oswald lawsuit issued an order on November 7, 2016 granting our motion to dismiss, without prejudice. In addition, the court stayed the case so that plaintiff could exercise whatever rights he had under Section 220 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. On or around November 30, 2016, the plaintiff purported to serve a books and records demand under Section 220 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. We responded to that demand. On March 21, 2017, we and the plaintiff in the Oswald lawsuit filed a stipulation and proposed order lifting the stay of the case, granting the plaintiff leave to amend, and setting a briefing schedule. The plaintiff in the Oswald lawsuit filed his second amended complaint on April 10, 2017. We then filed a motion to dismiss that second amended complaint on May 12, 2017. After further briefing and argument, on October 22, 2017, the court issued its written order denying the motion to dismiss on the basis of demand futility. On January 3, 2018, the court entered a stipulated order setting a response and briefing schedule for defendants to the second amended complaint. Defendants filed motions to dismiss the second amended complaint in the Oswald action under Rule 12(b)(6) on January 16, 2018. After further briefing and argument, on April 13, 2018, the court entered an order granting defendants motions to dismiss. On April 19, 2018, plaintiff Oswald filed a motion for leave to file a third amended complaint. On that same date, plaintiff Chopra, a plaintiff in a related and stayed derivative action in state court, filed a motion to intervene in the Oswald action. After further briefing and argument, on July 16, 2018, the court entered an order granting the Chopra motion to intervene and denying the Oswald motion for leave to file a third amended complaint. After the filing of an unopposed administrative motion for entry of judgment by defendants, on October 1, 2018, the court entered an order granting administrative motion for entry of final judgment and entered final judgment in favor of all named defendants and against plaintiffs Oswald and Chopra. On October 23, 2018, plaintiff Oswald filed a notice of appeal with the Ninth Circuit. The appeal has been fully briefed and subsequently argued on March 5, 2020. In the interim, the state court Chopra and Wollnik actions have remained stayed with periodic status conferences. The next status conferences have been scheduled in the Chopra and Wollnik cases on June 16, 2020. We intend to vigorously defend against these lawsuits. We are approaching the coverage limits on our directors and officers insurance policy, with approximately $900,000 of coverage remaining 21 under such policy. We cannot currently predict the impact or resolution of each of these lawsuits or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss, if any, which could be material and the resolution of these lawsuits may harm our business and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. From time to time, we may become subject to claims arising in the ordinary course of business or could be named a defendant in additional lawsuits. The outcome of such claims or other proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and may have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ITE M 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information concerning our executive officers as of March 1, 2020 is as follows: Steven Humphreys, 58, has served as our Chief Executive Officer since September 9, 2015 and as a director of the Company since July 1996. Mr. Humphreys previously served as Chairman of the Board from September 2013 until September 9, 2015. Previously, he also served as Lead Director from May 2010 until April 2013 and as Chairman of the Board from April 2000 to March 2007. Mr. Humphreys also served as an executive officer of the Company, as President from July 1996 to December 1996 and as President and Chief Executive Officer from January 1997 to July 1999. From November 2011 to December 2014, Mr. Humphreys served as chief executive officer of Flywheel Software, Inc., a venture-backed, location-based mobile solutions company. From October 2008 until its acquisition by SMSC in February 2011, Mr. Humphreys served as Chief Executive Officer and President of Kleer Corporation, a venture-backed provider of wireless audio technology. From October 2001 to October 2003, he served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of ActivIdentity, a provider of digital identity solutions, a publicly-listed company until its acquisition by HID Global in December 2010. He also served as a director of ActivIdentity from March 2008 until December 2010. Previously, Mr. Humphreys was President of Caere Corporation, a publicly-listed optical character recognition software company. Prior to Caere, he spent ten years with General Electric in a variety of factory automation and information technology positions, most recently leading the Information Delivery Services business unit of GE Information Services. Philanthropically, Mr. Humphreys has been an elected public school board trustee and a contributor to a range of education-oriented charities. He also serves on the board of Summit Public Schools, a charter school system with schools across the West Coast, and developer of the Summit Learning System, developed in cooperation with Facebook and deployed in over 1,000 schools nationwide. Mr. Humphreys holds a B.S. degree from Yale University and M.S. and M.B.A. degrees from Stanford University. Sandra Wallach, 55, has served as our Chief Financial Officer since February 16, 2017. Ms. Wallach previously served as VP Finance for MiaSole, a thin film solar technology company, from May 2011 to January 2013. For a six month period from January 2013 to June 2013, she served as Chief Financial Officer of UBM Tech, a wholly-owned subsidiary of UBM LLC. In June 2013, she returned to MiaSole and served as their VP Finance until February 2017. Prior to that, she served as VP Finance at Juniper Networks (from 2008-2011) as well as holding different financial management positions with Intuit (2003-2007). Before joining Intuit, Ms. Wallach served as Chief Financial Officer of General Electrics (GE) Industrial Systems, Drives & Controls division. Previously she held a range of financial and management positions at General Electric since joining GE in 1986. Ms. Wallach holds a B.A. in Economics and Public Policy from the University of California at Berkeley. 22 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol INVE. According to data available at March 9, 2020, we had 126 registered holders of our common stock. Not represented in this figure are individual stockholders in Germany whose custodian banks do not release stockholder information to us. The disclosure required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is included in Item 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 175,878 shares and 141,670 shares, respectively, of common stock surrendered to us to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of RSUs issued to employees. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Not applicable. 23 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report) contain forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements reflect current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as will, believe, could, should, would, may, anticipate, intend, plan, estimate, expect, project or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report under the heading Risk Factors, which are incorporated herein by reference. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Each of the terms the Company, Identiv, we and us as used herein refers collectively to Identiv, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. Overview Identiv, Inc. is a global provider of physical security and secure identification. Our products, software, systems, and services address the markets for physical and logical access control, video analytics and a wide range of Radio Frequency Identification (RFID)-enabled applications. Customers in government, enterprise, consumer, education, healthcare, banking, retail, transportation and other sectors rely on our security and identification solutions. Our mission is to make the physical world digital and secure. Our platform to deliver on our mission can be deployed through Internet of Things (IoT) devices, mobile, client/server, cloud, web, dedicated hardware and software-defined architectures. Our solutions encompass what we believe to be the most complete set of technologies in the industry. We are a one-stop shop for software delivering physical security management, video surveillance, logical access, analytics and identities; and devices spanning access readers, panels, processing appliances, and identity cards. We provide services to deliver optimized total solutions, serving as a single-point provider for our customers rather than several separate vendors that the customer would otherwise have to coordinate and manage. Segments We have organized our operations into two reportable business segments, principally by solution families: Premises and Identity. Our Premises segment includes our solutions to address the premises security market for government and enterprise, including access control, video surveillance, analytics, customer experience and other applications. Our Identity segment includes products and solutions enabling secure access to information serving the logical access and cyber security market, and protecting assets and objects in the IoT with RFID. Trends in our Business Geographic net revenue, based on each customers ship-to location, for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Americas $ 61,365 $ 60,153 Europe and the Middle East 11,417 9,943 Asia-Pacific 10,973 8,046 Total $ 83,755 $ 78,142 Americas 73 % 77 % Europe and the Middle East 14 % 13 % Asia-Pacific 13 % 10 % Total 100 % 100 % 24 Net Revenue Trends Net revenue in 2019 was $83.8 million, an increase of 7% compared with $78.1 million in 2018. Net revenue in our Premises segment, which accounted for 50% of our net revenue, was $41.6 million in 2019, an increase of 20% compared with $34.6 million in 2018. Net revenue in our Identity segment, which represented 50% of our net revenue, was $42.2 million in 2019, a decrease of 3% compared with $43.6 million in 2018. Net revenue in the Americas Net revenue in the Americas was $61.4 million in 2019, accounting for 73% of total net revenue, an increase of 2% compared with $60.2 million in 2018. Net revenue from our Premises solution represented approximately 60% of our net revenue in the Americas region. Net revenue in our Premises segment in the Americas in 2019 increased 20% compared with 2018 primarily due to higher sales of physical access control solutions products, software and related support services. Net revenue from our Identity segment decreased 17% in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to the planned reduction in lower margin access card sales, partially offset by higher sales of RFID transponder products. As a general trend, U.S. Federal agencies continue to be subject to security improvement mandates under programs such as Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12) and reiterated in memoranda from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB M-11-11). We believe that our solution for trusted physical access is an attractive offering to help federal agency customers move towards compliance with federal directives and mandates. To address our sales opportunities in the United States in general and with our U.S. Government customers in particular, we focus on a strong U.S. sales organization and our sales presence in Washington D.C. Net revenue in Europe, the Middle East, and Asia-Pacific Net revenue in Europe, the Middle East, and Asia-Pacific was approximately $22.4 million in 2019, accounting for 27% of total net revenue, an increase of 24% compared with 2018 primarily as a result of higher sales in both regions. Net revenue in these regions are very dependent on the completion of large projects and the timing of orders placed by some of our customers. Sales of Identity readers and RFID and NFC products and tags comprise a significant proportion of our net revenue in these regions. Net revenue from our Premises products increased 19% in 2019 compared with 2018 due to higher sales of physical access control solutions products and related support services in both the Europe and Middle East region and Asia-Pacific region. Net revenue from our Identity products increased approximately 26% in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to higher sales of access cards and smart card reader and reader module sales in the Europe and Middle East region and higher sales of smart card readers and RFID transponder products in the Asia-Pacific region . Identity reader sales in 2019 and 2018 comprised approximately 36% and 35% of the net revenue in the Europe and Middle East and the Asia-Pacific regions, respectively. Seasonality and Other Factors In our business overall, we may experience significant variations in demand for our offerings from quarter to quarter, and typically experience a stronger demand cycle in the second half of our fiscal year. Sales of our physical access control solutions and related products to U.S. Government agencies are subject to annual government budget cycles and generally are highest in the third quarter of each year. However, the usual seasonal trend can be negatively impacted by actions such as government shutdowns and the passing of continuing resolutions, which can act to delay the completion of certain projects. Sales of our identity reader chips, many of which are sold to government agencies worldwide, are impacted by testing and compliance schedules of government bodies as well as roll-out schedules for application deployments, both of which contribute to variability in demand from quarter to quarter. Further, this business is typically subject to seasonality based on differing commercial and global government budget cycles. Lower sales are expected in the U.S. in the first half, and in particular, the first quarter of the year, with higher sales typically in the second half of each year. In Asia-Pacific, with fiscal year-ends in March and June, order demand can be higher in the first quarter as customers attempt to complete projects before the end of the fiscal year. Accordingly, our net revenue levels in the first quarter each year often depend on the relative strength of project completions and sales mix between our U.S. customer base and our international customer base. In addition to the general seasonality of demand, overall U.S. Government expenditure patterns have a significant impact on demand for our products due to the significant portion of revenues that are typically sourced from U.S. Government agencies. Therefore, any significant reduction in U.S. Government spending could adversely impact our financial results and could cause our operating results to fall below any guidance we provide to the market or below the expectations of investors or security analysts. 25 Operating Expense Trends Base Operating Expenses Our base operating expenses (i.e., research and development, selling and marketing, and general and administrative) increased 5% in 2019 compared with 2018. Research and development expense increased by 19% in 2019 compared with 2018, resulting primarily due to additional headcount and related costs associated with the acquisitions of Thursby in the fourth quarter of 2018 and Viscount Systems, Inc., or Viscount, in the first quarter of 2019. Selling and marketing expense in 2019 increased by 11% compared with 2018, primarily due to additional headcount and related costs, and the amortization of acquired intangibles associated with the acquisitions of Thursby Software Systems, Inc., or Thursby, in the fourth quarter of 2018 and Viscount in the first quarter of 2019 . General and administrative spending in 2019 decreased by 13% compared with 2018 primarily due to integration efforts across general and administrative functions, and lower legal and other professional fees. Results of Operations The following table includes segment net revenue and segment net profit information by business segment and reconciles gross profit to results of operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interest. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Premises: Net revenue $ 41,579 $ 34,587 Gross profit 22,084 19,373 Gross profit margin 53 % 56 % Identity: Net revenue 42,176 43,555 Gross profit 14,570 13,959 Gross profit margin 35 % 32 % Total: Net revenue 83,755 78,142 Gross profit 36,654 33,332 Gross profit margin 44 % 43 % Operating expenses: Research and development 8,616 7,235 Selling and marketing 18,138 16,391 General and administrative 9,445 10,824 Increase in fair value of earnout liability 550 Restructuring and severance 14 747 Total operating expenses 36,763 35,197 Loss from operations (109 ) (1,865 ) Non-operating income (expense): Interest expense, net (917 ) (1,518 ) Gain on sale of investment 142 Loss on extinguishment of debt, net (1,369 ) Foreign currency gains, net 59 204 Loss before income taxes and noncontrolling interest $ (825 ) $ (4,548 ) 26 The following table sets forth our statements of operations as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 56.2 57.3 Gross profit 43.8 (56.3 ) Operating expenses: Research and development 10.3 9.3 Selling and marketing 21.7 21.0 General and administrative 11.3 13.9 Increase in fair value of earnout liability 0.7 Restructuring and severance 0.0 1.0 Total operating expenses 43.9 45.0 Loss from operations (0.1 ) (101.3 ) Non-operating income (expense) Interest expense, net (1.1 ) (1.9 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt, net (1.8 ) Foreign currency gains, net 0.1 0.3 Loss before income taxes and noncontrolling interest (1.1 ) (104.7 ) Income tax provision (0.4 ) (0.2 ) Loss before noncontrolling interest (1.5 ) (104.9 ) Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest Net loss attributable to Identiv, Inc. stockholders equity (1.5 )% (104.9 )% Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 Net Revenue Net revenue in 2019 was $83.8 million, an increase of 7% compared with $78.1 million in 2018. Net revenue was higher in 2019 driven by higher sales across both segments. Net revenue in our Premises segment of $41.6 million in 2019 increased 20% from $34.6 million in 2018. The increase w as primarily due higher sales of physical access control solutions products, software and related support services. Net revenue in our Identity segment of $42.2 million in 2019 decreased 3% from $43.6 million in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to the planned reduction of lower margin access card sales, offset by higher sales of RFID transponder products. Gross Profit Gross profit for 2019 was $36.7 million, or 44% of net revenue, compared to $33.3 million or 43% of net revenue in 2018. Gross profit represents net revenue less direct cost of product sales, manufacturing overhead, other costs directly related to preparing the product for sale including freight, scrap, inventory adjustments and amortization, where applicable. In our Premises segment, gross profit was $22.1 million in 2019 and $19.4 million in 2018. Gross profit margins in the Premises segment decreased to 53% in 2019 from 56% in 2018 primarily due to the lower sales of higher-margin video analytics software and adjustments to our inventory reserves in the first quarter of 2019 as a result of managements assessment of on-hand inventory levels and demand forecasts. In our Identity segment, gross profit was $14.6 million in 2019 compared with $14.0 million in 2018. Gross profit margins in the Identity segment in 2019 were 35% compared to 32% in 2018 primarily due to the planned reduction of lower margin access card sales to higher margin credential sales. We expect there will be some variation in our gross profit from period to period, as our gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation, competition, product pricing, the volume of sales in any given 27 quarter, manufacturing v olumes, product configuration and mix, the availability of new products, product enhancements, software and services, risk of inventory write-downs and the cost and availability of components. Operating Expenses Information about our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is set forth below. Research and Development Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Research and development expenses $ 8,616 $ 7,235 $ 1,381 19 % Percentage of revenue 10 % 9 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation and fees for the development of hardware, software and firmware products. We focus the bulk of our research and development activities on the continued development of existing products and the development of new offerings for emerging market opportunities. Research and development expenses in 2019 increased compared with 2018 primarily due to additional headcount and related costs associated with the acquisitions of Thursby in the fourth quarter of 2018 and Viscount in the first quarter of 2019. Selling and Marketing Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Selling and marketing expenses $ 18,138 $ 16,391 $ 1,747 11 % Percentage of revenue 22 % 21 % Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee compensation as well as amortization expense of certain intangible assets, tradeshow participation, advertising and other marketing and selling costs. Selling and marketing expenses in 2019 increased compared with 2018 primarily due to additional headcount and related costs, and the amortization of acquired intangibles associated with the acquisitions of Thursby in the fourth quarter of 2018 and Viscount in the first quarter of 2019. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) General and administrative expenses $ 9,445 $ 10,824 $ (1,379 ) (13 )% Percentage of revenue 11 % 14 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation expenses for employees performing administrative functions, and professional fees incurred for legal, auditing and other consulting services. General and administrative expenses decreased compared with the prior year period primarily due to the continued integration efforts across general and administrative functions and lower legal and other professional fees in 2019. 28 Increase in Fair Value of Earno ut Liability Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Increase in fair value of earnout liability $ 550 $ $ 550 100 % Earnout consideration expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was attributable to the increase in fair value of earnout liability associated with the Viscount acquisition from $200,000 to $750,000 in 2019. See Note 4, Business Combinations, in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements for more information. Restructuring and Severance Charges Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Restructuring and severance $ 14 $ 747 $ (733 ) (98 )% In 2018, we incurred restructuring and severance expenses consisting primarily of facility rental related costs and severance related costs associated with an acquisition in the first quarter of 2018, and recording a restructuring accrual of $129,000 for future rental payment obligations associated with vacated office space at our Fremont, California facility. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we incurred restructuring and severance related costs of $105,000. These costs were partially offset by the reversal of the remaining restructuring accrual of $91,000 associated with the previously vacated office space disclosed above which was sublet in the third quarter of 2019. See Note 15, Restructuring and Severance, in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements for more information. Non-operating Income (Expense) Information about our non-operating income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is set forth below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Interest expense, net $ (917 ) $ (1,518 ) $ 601 (40 )% Gain on sale of investment $ 142 $ $ 142 100 % Loss on extinguishment of debt, net $ $ (1,369 ) $ 1,369 (100 )% Foreign currency gains, net $ 59 $ 204 $ (145 ) (71 )% Interest expense, net consists of interest on financial liabilities and interest accretion expense for a liability on a long-term payment obligation arising from our acquisition of Hirsch Electronics Corporation. The lower net interest expense in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily attributable to lower interest related costs associated with the amendment of our revolving loan facility in the first quarter of 2019, and the impact of the $5.0 million principal repayment under our previous term loan with Venture Lending & Leasing VII, Inc. and Venture Lending & Leasing VIII, Inc. (collectively referred to as VLL7 and VLL 8) in May 2018. See Note 8, Long-Term Payment Obligation and Note 9, Financial Liabilities , in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements for more information. Gain on the sale of investment of $142,000 was related to the sale of our investment in a private company in the fourth quarter of 2019, which had no carrying value. Loss on extinguishment of debt, net represents the difference between the reacquisition price of the remaining amounts outstanding under our previous term loan, noted above, and its net carrying amount. 29 Changes in currency valuation in the periods mainly were the result of exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar, the Indian Rupee, and the Euro. Our foreign currency gains and losses primarily res ult from the valuation of current assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective entity in the local financial statements . Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Income tax provision $ (326 ) $ (155 ) $ (171 ) 110 % Our tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and the relative amount of income (loss) we earn in jurisdictions. It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year to year. The following items had the most significant impact on the difference between our statutory U.S. federal income tax rates of 21% and our effective tax rate in 2019 and 2018. 2019 A decrease of $0.9 million, or 105%, to the statutory rate resulted from changes in the valuation allowance during the year. An increase of $0.4 million, or 45%, resulted from rate differences between U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions. Significant jurisdictions causing this difference were Switzerland, Germany and Singapore. An increase of $0.2 million, or 20%, from stock option windfalls. A decrease of $0.1 million, or 13%, associated with GILTI income. No U.S. taxes were provided on foreign 2019 earnings or losses as these earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. The net effect of all changes was an income tax provision of $0.3 million recorded in 2019. 2018 A decrease of $1.1 million, or 25.1%, to the statutory rate resulted from changes in the valuation allowance during the year. An increase of $0.2 million, or 4.9%, resulted from rate differences between U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions and a true-up of foreign income tax payables. Significant jurisdictions causing this difference were Germany and Singapore. No U.S. taxes were provided on foreign 2018 earnings or losses as these earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. No GILTI tax was provided with respect to earnings of foreign subsidiaries due to a net foreign tested loss position. The net effect of all changes was an income tax provision of $0.2 million recorded in 2018. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2019, our working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, was $11.7 million, a decrease of $1.0 million compared to $12.7 million as of December 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2019, our cash balance was $9.4 million. On February 8, 2017, we entered into Loan and Security Agreements (each, a Loan and Security Agreement) with East West Bank (EWB) and VLL7 and VLL8. The Loan and Security Agreement with EWB provided for a $10.0 million revolving loan facility, and the Loan and Security Agreement with VLL7 and VLL8 provided for a term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $10.0 million. On February 6, 2019, we amended our Loan and Security Agreement with EWB, which increased the Revolving Loan Facility from $16.0 million to $20.0 million, lowered the interest rate from prime rate plus 1.0% to prime rate plus 0.75%, extended the maturity date to February 8, 2021, and amended certain financial covenants, including covenants with respect to minimum EBITDA levels . On January 28, 2020, we entered into an amendment (the Twelfth Amendment) to our Loan and Security Agreement with EWB, which provided a new term loan facility (EWB Term Loan) in a principal amount of $4.5 million and reduced the Revolving Loan Facility under the Loan and Security Agreement from $20.0 million to $15.5 million. The EWB Term Loan has an interest rate equal to the prime rate plus 2.25%, will amortize beginning February 1, 2020, with principal in the amount of $250,000 due monthly through the first anniversary of the term loan, and the remainder due on such first anniversary. In addition, certain definitions in the Loan and Security Agreement were amended pursuant to the Twelfth Amendment, including the definition of EBITDA and Borrowing Base, and a new fixed charge coverage ratio financial covenant was added. Upon repayment of the new term loan in full, the revolving loan facility will be increased to $20.0 million and the fixed charge coverage ratio financial covenant will no longer apply. See Note 9, Financial Liabilities , in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements for more information. As of December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Loan Facility and the EWB Term Loan after giving effect to the amendment of certain financial covenants pursuant to the Twelfth Amendment. 30 On December 20, 2017, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with each of 21 April Fund, Ltd. and 21 April Fund, LP (collectively, the Pu rchasers), in which we, through a private placement, agreed to issue and sell an aggregate of up to 5,000,000 shares of Series B non-voting convertible preferred stock. The Purchasers purchased an aggregate of 3,000,000 preferred shares at a price of $4.0 0 per share in cash at the initial closing of the transaction. On May 30, 2018, we completed the second closing of the private placement of 2,000,000 preferred shares at a price of $4.00 per share. The total purchase price paid to us was $20.0 million, of which $12.0 million was paid at the initial closing and $8.0 million at the second closing. We are required to use the proceeds from the issuance of the preferred shares to pay off existing debt obligations and to fund future acquisitions of technology, bu siness and other assets. See Note 11, Stockholders Equity , in the acc ompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements for more information. As our previously unremitted earnings have been subjected to U.S. federal income tax, we expect any repatriation of these earnings to the U.S. would not incur significant additional taxes related to such amounts. However, our estimates are provisional and subject to further analysis. Generally, most of our foreign subsidiaries have accumulated deficits and cash and cash equivalents that are held outside the United States are typically not cash generated from earnings that would be subject to tax upon repatriation if transferred to the United States. We have access to the cash held outside the United States to fund domestic operations and obligations without any material income tax consequences. As of December 31, 2019, the amount of cash included at such subsidiaries was $1.7 million. We have not, nor do we anticipate the need to, repatriate funds to the United States to satisfy domestic liquidity needs arising in the ordinary course of business, including liquidity needs associated with our domestic debt service requirements We have historically incurred operating losses and negative cash flows from operating activities, and we may continue to incur losses in the future. As of December 31, 2019, we had a total accumulated deficit of $405.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we had a net loss of $1.2 million. We believe our existing cash balance, together with cash generated from operations and available credit under our Loan and Security Agreement will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs to fund operations for the next twelve months. We may also use cash to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products that would change our cash requirements. We may also choose to finance our cash requirements through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or other arrangements. However, there can be no assurance that additional capital, if required, will be available to us or that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to stockholders could result. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities issued or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on our operations. The incurrence of additional indebtedness or the issuance of certain equity securities could result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or issue additional equity, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our Loan and Security Agreement imposes restrictions on our operations, increases our fixed payment obligations and has restrictive covenants. In addition, the issuance of additional equity securities by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to curtail or reduce the scope of our business or forgo potential business opportunities. The following summarizes our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 427 $ (5,196 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,484 ) (3,373 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (227 ) 808 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (199 ) (425 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (1,483 ) (8,186 ) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 10,866 19,052 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year $ 9,383 $ 10,866 Cash flows from operating activities Cash provided by operating activities for 2019 was primarily due to the net loss of $1.2 million and adjustments for certain non-cash items of $6.3 million, consisting primarily of depreciation, amortization, amortization of debt issuance costs, and stock-based compensation, offset by a decrease in cash from net changes in operating assets and liabilities of $4.8 million,. Cash used in operating activities for 2018 was primarily due to the net loss of $4.7 million and a decrease in cash from net changes in operating assets and liabilities of $8.2 million, offset by adjustments for certain non-cash items of $7.7 million, consisting primarily of depreciation, amortization, amortization of debt issuance costs, loss on extinguishment of debt, and stock-based compensation. 31 Cash flows from investing activities Cash used in investing activities during 2019 was $1.5 million, of which $1.3 million related to the acquisitions of Viscount, net of cash acquired, $0.3 million related to capital expenditures, and $0.1 million related to the proceeds from the sale of an investment. Cash used in investing activities during 2018 was $3.4 million, of which $2.0 million related to the acquisitions of 3VR and Thursby, net of cash acquired, and $1.3 million related to capital expenditures. Cash flows from financing activities Cash used in financing activities during 2019 related primarily to repayments of debt of $3.6 million, r epayment of notes payable of $2.0 million associated with the acquisition of 3VR Security, Inc., and taxes paid related to net share settlement of restricted stock units of $0.9 million, partially offset by the net proceeds from borrowing of $6.3 million. Cash provided by financing activities during 2018 related primarily to borrowings of debt, net of issuance costs, of $21.8 million, and issuance of $7.9 million of Series B preferred stock, net of issuance costs, offset by repayments of debt of $28.2 million and taxes paid related to net share settlement of restricted stock units of $0.7 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into off-balance sheet arrangements, or issued guarantees to third parties. Contractual Obligations The following summarizes expected cash requirements for contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 (in thousands): Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years Operating leases $ 5,528 $ 2,102 $ 2,897 $ 529 $ Contractual payment obligation 1,763 1,402 361 Revolving loan facility 14,230 14,230 Purchase commitments and other obligations 8,838 8,838 Total obligations $ 30,359 $ 26,572 $ 3,258 $ 529 $ Subleases $ (1,856 ) $ (833 ) $ (1,023 ) $ $ Our contractual payment obligation was assumed upon our acquisition of Hirsch. See Note 8, Long-Term Payment Obligation , in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements. Revolving loan facility contractual obligations include payments to be made for principal and interest in accordance with the terms at December 31, 2019 of the revolving loan facility under our Loan and Security Agreement. See Note 9, Financial Liabilities , in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements. We lease facilities, certain equipment, and automobiles under non-cancelable operating lease agreements. Purchases for inventories are highly dependent upon forecasts of customer demand. Due to the uncertainty in demand from our customers, we may have to change, reschedule, or cancel purchases or purchase orders from our suppliers. These changes may lead to vendor cancellation charges on these orders or contractual commitments. See Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies , in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements. Our other long-term liabilities include gross unrecognized tax benefits, and related interest and penalties. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years in connection with these tax liabilities. Accordingly, such amounts are not included in the contractual obligation table above. Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical 32 experience and on various other factors, which we believe are reasonable based upon the information available to us at the time these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when we transfer control of the promised products or services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of our products, software licenses, and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation, generally on a relative basis using its standalone selling price. The stated contract value is generally the transaction price to be allocated to the separate performance obligations. Revenue is recognized net of any taxes collected from our customers that are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. Nature of Products and Services We derive our revenues primarily from sales of hardware products, software licenses, professional services, software maintenance and support, and extended hardware warranties. Hardware Product Revenues We generally have two performance obligations in arrangements involving the sale of hardware products. The first performance obligation is to transfer the hardware product (which includes software integral to the functionality of the hardware product). The second performance obligation is to provide assurance that the product complies with its agreed-upon specifications and is free from defects in material and workmanship for a period of one to three years (i.e. assurance warranty). The entire transaction price is allocated to the hardware product and is generally recognized as revenue at the time of delivery because the customer obtains control of the product at that point in time. We have concluded that control generally transfers at that point in time because the customer has title to the hardware, physical possession, and a present obligation to pay for the hardware. None of the transaction price is allocated to the assurance warranty component, as we account for these product warranty costs in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 460, Guarantees (ASC 460). Payments for hardware contracts are generally due 30 to 60 days after shipment of the hardware product. Software License Revenues Our license arrangements grant customers the perpetual right to access and use the licensed software products at the outset of an arrangement. Technical support and software updates are generally made available throughout the term of the support agreement, which is generally one to three years. We account for these arrangements as two performance obligations: (1) the software licenses, and (2) the related updates and technical support. The software license revenue is recognized upon delivery of the license to the customer, while the software updates and technical support revenue is recognized over the term of the support contract. Payments are generally due 30 to 60 days after delivery of the software licenses. Professional Services Revenues Professional services revenues consist primarily of programming customization services performed relating to the integration of our software products with our customers other systems, such as HR systems. Professional services contracts are generally billed on a time and materials basis and revenue is recognized as the services are performed. For contracts billed on a fixed price basis, revenue is recognized once the contract is complete. Payments for services are generally due when services are performed. Software Maintenance and Support Revenues Support and maintenance contract revenues consist of the services provided to support the specialized programming applications performed by our professional services group. Support and maintenance contracts are typically billed at inception of the contract and recognized as revenue over the contract period, typically over a one to three year to period. Extended Hardware Warranties Revenues Sales of our hardware products may also include optional extended hardware warranties, which typically provide assurance that the product will continue function as initially intended. Extended hardware warranty contracts are typically billed at inception of the contract and recognized as revenue over the respective contract period, typically over one to two year periods after the expiration of the original assurance warranty. Significant Judgments Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. For such arrangements, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling price (SSP). 33 Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct perfo rmance obligation in a contract. For the majority of items, we estimate SSP using historical transaction data. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of our products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a disc ount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when the product or service is not sold separately, we determine the SSPs using information that may include mar ket conditions and other observable inputs. The determination of SSP is an ongoing process and information is reviewed regularly in order to ensure SSPs reflect the most current information or trends. Contract Balances Amounts invoiced in advance of services being provided are accounted for as deferred revenue. Nearly all of our deferred revenue balance is related software maintenance contracts. Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although payment is typically due within 30 to 90 days of contract inception. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined our contracts do not include a significant financing component. The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, not to receive financing from our customers. Inventory Valuation Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (using average cost or standard cost, as applicable) or market (net realizable value). We typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which can be highly unpredictable and can fluctuate significantly. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand and record an estimated provision for excess inventory reserve based on judgment and assumptions involving an evaluation of technical obsolescence and our ability to sell based primarily on historical sales patterns and expectations for future demand. Actual demand and market conditions may differ from the projections utilized by management in establishing our inventory reserves. If we were to use different assumptions or utilize different estimates, the amount and timing of our inventory reserves could be materially different. Adverse changes in our inventory reserve valuations could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. Income Taxes Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect managements assessment of estimated current and future income taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits. Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which are expected to result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, for all material jurisdictions, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax balances, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies and results of recent operations. In projecting future taxable income, we begin with historical results and incorporate assumptions about the amount of future state, federal and foreign pretax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses. In evaluating the objective evidence that historical results provide, we consider three years of cumulative operating results. As of December 31, 2019, we have federal and state income tax net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of $117.3 million and $42.1 million, respectively, which will expire at various dates. We believe that it is more likely than not that the benefit from these NOL carryforwards will not be realized. Accordingly, we have provided a full valuation allowance on any potential deferred tax assets relating to these state NOL carryforwards. If our assumptions change and we determine we will be able to realize these NOLs, the tax benefits relating to any reversal of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2019, will be accounted for as a reduction of income tax expense. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves evaluating uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740) states that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including the resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, on the basis of the technical merits. We record unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740 and adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available. Because of the complexity of some of these 34 uncertainties, the ultimate resoluti on may result in a tax payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which new information is made available. We believe that none of the unrecognized tax benefits, excluding the associated interest and penalties, which are insignificant, may be recognized by the end of 2020. We consider the earnings of all our non-U.S. subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States on the basis of estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs and our specific plans for reinvestment of those subsidiary earnings. Should we decide to repatriate foreign earnings, we would need to adjust our income tax provision in the period we determined that the earnings will no longer be indefinitely invested outside the United States. Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets Business combinations . We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill is allocated to reporting units expected to benefit from the business combination. The allocation of purchase price requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions in determining the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed especially with respect to intangible assets. Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from customer relationships, developed technology, trade names and acquired patents; and discount rates. Management estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. We evaluate our long-lived assets and certain identifiable amortizable intangible assets for impairment in accordance with ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant and Equipment, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets or intangibles may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by an asset group. If such asset groups are considered to be impaired (i.e., if the sum of its estimated future undiscounted cash flows used to test for recoverability is less than its carrying value), the impairment loss to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds the fair value of the asset group. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Leases We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use (ROU) assets, operating lease liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of future payments. The operating lease ROU assets also include any lease payments made and exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred. Our lease terms may include options to extend the lease when it is reasonably certain that they we will exercise that option. Lease expense for minimum lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which is accounted for as a single lease component. Stock-based Compensation We recognize stock-based compensation expense for all share-based payment awards in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation . Stock-based compensation expense for expected-to-vest awards is valued under the single-option approach and amortized on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures. We utilize the Black Scholes option-pricing model in order to determine the fair value of stock-based option awards. The Black Scholes pricing model requires various highly subjective assumptions including volatility, expected option life, and risk-free interest rate. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share-based payment awards represent managements best estimates. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. If factors change and different assumptions are used, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those expected-to-vest shares. If our actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our estimate, our recorded stock-based compensation expense and operating results could be different. 35 Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, which is incorporated herein by reference.