ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. We have omitted discussion of the earliest of the three years covered by our consolidated financial statements presented in this report because that disclosure was already included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2021, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2022. You are encouraged to reference Part II, Item 7, within that report, for a discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2021. Overview Identiv is a global provider of secure identification and physical security. We are leveraging our RFID-enabled physical device-management expertise as well as our physical access, video and analytics solutions to provide leading solutions as our customers, and our customers customers, embracing the IoT. Customers in the technology and mobility, consumer, government, healthcare, education and other sectors rely on Identivs identification and access solutions. Identivs platform encompasses RFID and NFC, cybersecurity, and the full spectrum of physical access, video, and audio security. We are bringing the benefits of the IoT to a wide range of physical, connected items. Identivs mission is to digitally enable every physical thing and every physical place on the planet. Our full continuum of security solutions is delivered through our platform of RFID-enabled devices, mobile, client/server, cloud, web, dedicated hardware and software defined architectures. In doing so, we believe that we will create smart physical security and a smarter physical world. Segments We have organized our operations into two reportable business segments, principally by solution families: Identity and Premises. Our Identity segment includes products and solutions enabling secure access to information serving the logical access and cyber-security market, and protecting connected objects and information using RFID embedded security. Our Premises segment includes our solutions to address the Premises security market for government and enterprise, including access control, video surveillance, analytics, audio, access readers and identities. Factors Affecting Our Performance Market Adoption Our financial performance depends on the pace, scope and depth of end-user adoption of our RFID products in multiple industries. That pace, scope and depth accelerated during 2020 causing large fluctuations in our operating results. During 2021, we believe RFID deployments occurred at a much faster pace of growth than historically. We believe significant improvement in chip capabilities at lower costs, combined with the incorporation of the full NDEF (NFC data exchange format) protocol by Apple in its iPhone 12 and iOS 14 has accelerated the opportunities for product engineers to integrate RFID into their products to create new and more engaging customer experiences, product reliability and performance. As the market hit this pivot point, we expanded both our capacity and technical leadership. We track growth indicators including design wins, customer launches and technology launches. We have made investments in our technology, high quality and automation production facilities, and we believe that our competitive advantages will continue to drive growth. We believe the underlying, long-term trend is continued RFID adoption by multiple verticals. We also believe that expanding use cases fosters adoption across verticals and into other markets. In addition, we do not have any significant concentration of customers so we believe that our demand will continue to be resilient to the loss of any individual customer or application. If RFID market adoption, or customer adoption and development of our products specifically, does not meet our expectations then our growth prospects and operating results will be adversely affected. If we are unable to meet end-user or customer volume or performance expectations, then our business prospects may be adversely affected. In contrast, if our RFID sales exceed expectations, then our revenue and profitability may be positively affected. 22 Given the uncertainties of the specific timing of our new customer deployments, we cannot assure you that we have appropriate inventory and capacity levels or that we will not experience inventory shortfalls or overages in the future or acquire inventory at costs to maintain gross margins. We attempt to mitigate those risks by being deeply embedded in our customers' design cycles, working with our chip partners on long lead time components, managing our limited capital equipment needs within a short cycle and future proofing our facilities to accommodate several scenarios for growth potential. If end users with sizable projects change or delay them, we may experience significant fluctuation in revenue on a quarterly or annual basis, and we anticipate that uncertainty to continue to characterize our business for the foreseeable future. Seasonality and Other Factors In our business overall, we experience variations in demand for our offerings from quarter to quarter, and typically experience a stronger demand cycle in the second half of our fiscal year. Sales of our physical access control solutions and related products to U.S. Government agencies are subject to annual government budget cycles and generally are highest in the third quarter of each year. Sales of our identity readers, many of which are sold to government agencies worldwide, are impacted by project schedules of government agencies, as well as roll-out schedules for application deployments. Further, this business is typically subject to seasonality based on differing commercial and global government budget cycles. Lower sales are expected in the U.S. in the first half, and in particular, the first quarter of the year, with higher sales typically in the second half of each year. In Asia-Pacific, with fiscal year-ends in March and June, order demand can be higher in the first quarter as customers attempt to complete projects before the end of the fiscal year. Accordingly, our net revenue levels in the first quarter each year often depend on the relative strength of project completions and sales mix between our U.S. customer base and our international customer base. Purchasing of our Products and Services for U.S. Federal Government Security Programs In addition to the general seasonality of demand, overall U.S. Federal Government expenditure patterns have a significant effect on demand for our products due to the significant portion of revenue that are typically sourced from U.S. Federal Government agencies. Drivers of growth included our technology strength and proven security solutions, work from home mandates, and continued strength in investments for security across a number of different agencies. We believe that the success and growth of our business will continue through the U.S. Federal Government focus on security and our successful procurement of government business. If there are changes in government purchasing policies or budgetary constraints there could be implications for our growth prospects and operating results. If we are unable to meet end-user or customer volume or performance expectations, then our business prospects and operating results may be adversely affected. Impacts of Macroeconomic Conditions and Other Factors on our Business In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 as a pandemic. The rapid spread of the pandemic and the continuously evolving responses to combat it have had an increasingly negative impact on the global economy, including industry-wide global supply chain challenges, such as manufacturing, transportation and logistics. We purchase certain products and key components from a limited number of sources that depend on the supply chain, including freight, to receive components, transport finished goods and deliver our products across the world. In view of the rapidly changing business environment, we have experienced delays and reductions in customer orders, shifting supply chain availability, component shortages, and other production-related challenges. We are currently unable to determine if there will be any continued disruption and the extent to which this may have future impact on our business. We continue to monitor the global supply chain challenges and its effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. More recently, we have also been impacted by other adverse macroeconomic conditions, including but not limited to, inflation, foreign currency fluctuations, and the slowdown of economic activity around the globe. These conditions have also impacted our suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, and distributors, causing increases in cost of materials and higher shipping and transportation rates, which then impacted the pricing of our products. Price increases may not successfully offset cost increases or may cause us to lose market share and, in turn, may adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. 23 Results of Operations The following table includes net revenue and net profit information by business segment and reconciles gross profit to income (loss) before income tax provision (in thousands). Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 % Change Identity: Net revenue $ 67,422 $ 64,725 4 % Gross profit 15,153 15,670 (3 )% Gross profit margin 22 % 24 % Premises: Net revenue 45,493 39,044 17 % Gross profit 25,791 21,397 21 % Gross profit margin 57 % 55 % Total: Net revenue 112,915 103,769 9 % Gross profit 40,944 37,067 10 % Gross profit margin 36 % 36 % Operating expenses: Research and development 9,916 8,673 14 % Selling and marketing 20,730 17,033 22 % General and administrative 10,429 11,891 (12 )% Restructuring and severance 202 817 (75 )% Total operating expenses 41,277 38,414 7 % Loss from operations (333 ) (1,347 ) (75 )% Non-operating income (expense): Interest expense, net (143 ) (483 ) (70 )% Gain on forgiveness of Paycheck Protection Program note 2,946 (100 )% Gain on investment 30 611 (95 )% Foreign currency gains (losses), net 155 (79 ) (296 )% Income (loss) before income tax provision $ (291 ) $ 1,648 (118 )% Geographic net revenue based on each customers ship-to location is as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 % Change Americas $ 76,799 $ 69,396 11 % Europe and the Middle East 15,900 12,876 23 % Asia-Pacific 20,216 21,497 (6 )% Total $ 112,915 $ 103,769 9 % As a percentage of net revenue: Americas 68 % 67 % Europe and the Middle East 14 % 12 % Asia-Pacific 18 % 21 % Total 100 % 100 % 24 Fiscal 2022 Compared with Fiscal 2021 Net Revenue Net revenue in 2022 was $112.9 million, an increase of 9% compared with $103.8 million in 2021. Net revenue in the Americas was $76.8 million in 2022, an increase of 11% compared with $69.4 million in 2021. Net revenue from our Premises segment for security programs within various U.S. government agencies and commercial customers for access control and video solutions, as well as reader, controller and appliance products, represented approximately 55% of our net revenue in the Americas. Net revenue in Europe, the Middle East, and Asia-Pacific was approximately $36.1 million in 2022, an increase of 5% compared with $34.4 million in 2021. Sales of RFID and NFC products and smart card readers comprised a significant proportion of our net revenue in these regions. Identity Segment Net revenue in our Identity segment was $67.4 million in 2022, an increase of 4% compared with $64.7 million in 2021. Net revenue in this segment in 2022 and 2021 represented 60% and 62%, respectively, of our net revenue. Net revenue in this segment in the Americas in 2022 increased 3% compared with 2021 primarily due to higher sales of RFID transponder products to mobile phone and consumer products contract manufacturers and higher sales of access cards, offset by lower sales of our legacy smart card readers resulting from critical component supply-chain constraints. Net revenue in this segment in Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia-Pacific increased approximately 5% in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher sales of RFID transponder products to existing customers in the medical device and library markets. Sales of RFID and NFC products and smart card readers comprise a significant proportion of our net revenue in these regions. RFID transponder products comprised approximately 67% of net revenue in these regions in 2022, and 66% of net revenue in 2021, while smart card reader sales in 2022 and 2021 comprised approximately 22% and 24% of the net revenue, respectively. Premises Segment Net revenue in our Premises segment was $45.5 million in 2022, an increase of 17% compared with $39.0 million in 2021. Net revenue in this segment in 2022 and 2021 represented 40% and 38%, respectively, of our net revenue. Net revenue in this segment in the Americas in 2022 increased 18% compared with 2021 due to higher sales of Hirsch Velocity hardware, software, support services, and video product offerings across both federal government and commercial businesses. Net revenue in this segment across Europe, the Middle East, and Asia-Pacific increased 2% in 2022 compared with 2021. The increases in these regions are primarily project driven and can vary period to period. As a general trend, U.S. Federal agencies continue to be subject to security improvement mandates under programs such as Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12) and reiterated in memoranda from the Office of Management and Budget. We believe that our solutions for trusted physical access is an attractive offering to help federal agency customers move towards compliance with federal directives and mandates. To address sales opportunities in the United States in general and with our U.S. Government customers in particular, we focus on a strong U.S. sales organization and our sales presence in Washington D.C. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit for 2022 was $40.9 million, or 36% of net revenue, compared to $37.1 million or 36% of net revenue in 2021. Gross profit represents net revenue less direct cost of product sales, manufacturing overhead, other costs directly related to preparing the product for sale including freight, scrap, inventory adjustments and amortization, where applicable. Identity Segment In our Identity segment, gross profit was $15.2 million in 2022 compared with $15.7 million in 2021. Gross profit margins in the Identity segment in 2022 decreased to 22% compared to 24% in 2021. The decrease in gross profit margins was primarily attributable to continued investments in technology, manufacturing processes and equipment, and changes in product mix, with lower sales of higher margin legacy smart card readers and higher sales of lower margin RFID transponder products. Premises Segment In our Premises segment, gross profit was $25.8 million in 2022 compared with $21.4 million in 2021. Gross profit margins in the Premises segment in 2022 increased to 57% compared to 55% in 2021. The increase was primarily due to product mix as well as the continued focus on production and logistical efficiencies. 25 We expect there will be variation in our total gross profit from period to period, as our gross profit has been and will continue to be affected primarily by varying mix among our products. Within each product category, gross profit margins have tended to be consistent, but over time may be affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation, competition, product pricing, the volume of sales in any given quarter, manufacturing volumes, product configuration and mix, the availability of new products, product enhancements, software and services, risk of inventory write-downs and the cost and availability of components. Operating Expenses Information about our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 is set forth below. Research and Development Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Research and development expenses $ 9,916 $ 8,673 $ 1,243 14 % Percentage of revenue 9 % 8 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation and fees for the development of hardware, software and firmware products. We focus the bulk of our research and development activities on the continued development of existing products and the development of new offerings for emerging market opportunities. Research and development expenses in 2022 increased compared with 2021 primarily due to higher headcount and related payroll costs, higher travel related costs, as well as higher stock-based compensation costs associated with performance stock units. Selling and Marketing Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Selling and marketing expenses $ 20,730 $ 17,033 $ 3,697 22 % Percentage of revenue 18 % 16 % Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee compensation as well as amortization expense of certain intangible assets, customer lead generation activities, tradeshow participation, advertising and other marketing and selling costs. Selling and marketing expenses in 2022 increased compared with 2021 primarily due to higher headcount and related payroll costs, higher external contractor costs as well as higher travel related costs. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) General and administrative expenses $ 10,429 $ 11,891 $ (1,462 ) (12 )% Percentage of revenue 9 % 11 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation expenses for employees performing administrative functions, and professional fees incurred for legal, auditing and other consulting services. General and administrative expenses decreased compared with 2021 primarily due to bad debt expense recorded in the fourth quarter of 2021 of $2.6 million for aged accounts receivables, and lower merchant card fees in 2022, partially offset by higher headcount and related payroll costs in 2022 compared to 2021. 26 Restructuring and Severance Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Restructuring and severance expenses $ 202 $ 817 $ (615 ) (75 )% Restructuring expenses incurred in 2022 consists of severance related costs of $353,000 offset by a net credit of $151,000 associated with a settlement agreement for outstanding rental payments due the landlord on leased office space in San Francisco, California. The net credit represented the difference between amounts accrued and the settlement amount. Restructuring expenses incurred in 2021 consists of facility rental related costs of $521,000 and severance related costs of $296,000. Facility rental related costs in 2021 included a charge of $281,000 resulting from the impairment of a right-of-use operating lease asset for office space we vacated in the first quarter of 2021. Non-operating Income (Expense) Information about our non-operating income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 is set forth below. Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Interest expense, net $ (143 ) $ (483 ) $ 340 (70 )% Gain on forgiveness of Paycheck Protection Program note $ $ 2,946 $ (2,946 ) 100 % Gain on investment $ 30 $ 611 $ (581 ) (95 )% Foreign currency gains (losses), net $ 155 $ (79 ) $ 234 (296 )% Interest expense, net consists of interest on financial liabilities, amortization of debt issuance costs, and interest accretion expense for a liability on a contractual payment obligation arising from our acquisition of Hirsch Electronics Corporation. The decrease in interest expense in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily attributable to lower borrowings outstanding under our revolving loan facility with our lender (which was fully paid down in August 2021), and lower amounts outstanding under our contractual payment obligation as all amounts outstanding had been paid as of December 31, 2021. Gain on forgiveness of the Paycheck Protection Program note represented the principal and accrued interest amounts outstanding of approximately $2.9 million under our promissory note pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program that had been forgiven in 2021. Gain on investment is associated with proceeds received in connection with the acquisition of a private company that we had invested in, which had been fully impaired and had no carrying value. Changes in currency valuation in the periods mainly were the result of exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar, the Indian Rupee, the Canadian dollar, and the euro. Our foreign currency gains and losses primarily result from the valuation of current assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective entity in the local financial statements. 27 Income Tax Provision Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Income tax provision $ 101 $ 28 $ 73 261 % As of December 31, 2022, our deferred tax assets are fully offset by a valuation allowance. Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, Income Taxes , provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. Based upon the weight of available evidence, which includes historical operating performance, reported cumulative net losses since inception and difficulty in accurately forecasting our future results, we provided a full valuation allowance against all of our net U.S. and foreign deferred tax assets. We reassess the need for our valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. If it is later determined that a portion or all of the valuation allowance is not required, it generally will be a benefit to the income tax provision in the period such determination is made. We recorded an income tax provision during the year ended December 31, 2022. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2022 differs from the federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to stock-based compensation, global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") inclusions, and the provision in certain foreign jurisdictions partially offset by the change in the valuation allowance. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2021 differs from the federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to PPP loan forgiveness, stock-based compensation, GILTI inclusions the provision in certain foreign jurisdictions partially offset by the change in the valuation allowance. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2022, our working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, was $51.7 million, a decrease of $0.2 million compared to $51.9 million as of December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2022, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $16.7 million. On February 8, 2017, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with East West Bank (EWB). Following subsequent amendments, on April 14, 2022, we amended and restated the Loan and Security Agreement by replacing the $20.0 million revolving loan facility subject to a borrowing base with a non-formula revolving loan facility with no borrowing base requirement and a maturity date of February 8, 2023. In addition, the interest rate was lowered from prime to prime minus 0.25%, and certain financial covenants were amended. On February 8, 2023, we entered into an amendment (the "Fourth Amendment") to the amended and restated the Loan and Security Agreement with EWB (as amended to date, the "Loan Agreement"). The Fourth Amendment amends the Loan Agreement to, among other things, extend the maturity date to February 8, 2025 and amend certain financial covenants . As our previously unremitted earnings have been subjected to U.S. federal income tax, we expect any repatriation of these earnings to the U.S. would not incur significant additional taxes related to such amounts. However, our estimates are provisional and subject to further analysis. Generally, most of our foreign subsidiaries have accumulated deficits and cash and cash equivalents that are held outside the United States are typically not cash generated from earnings that would be subject to tax upon repatriation if transferred to the United States. We have access to the cash held outside the United States to fund domestic operations and obligations without any material income tax consequences. As of December 31, 2022, the amount of cash included at such subsidiaries was $5.3 million. We have not, nor do we anticipate the need to, repatriate funds to the United States to satisfy domestic liquidity needs arising in the ordinary course of business, including liquidity needs associated with our domestic debt service requirements. We have historically incurred operating losses and negative cash flows from operating activities, and we may continue to incur losses in the future. As of December 31, 2022, we had a total accumulated deficit of $409.4 million. 28 We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with cash generated from operations and available credit under our Loan Agreement will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs to fund operations for the next twelve months. We may also use cash to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products that would change our cash requirements. We may also choose to finance our business through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or other arrangements. However, there can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us or that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to stockholders could result. Debt or any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities issued or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on our operations. The incurrence of additional indebtedness or the issuance of certain debt or equity securities could result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or issue additional equity, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our Loan Agreement imposes restrictions on our operations, increases our fixed payment obligations and has restrictive covenants. In addition, the issuance of additional equity securities by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to curtail or reduce the scope of our business or forgo potential business opportunities. The following summarizes our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (7,807 ) $ 1,228 Net cash used in investing activities (3,872 ) (1,476 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (1,039 ) 19,341 Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 48 (695 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (12,670 ) 18,398 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash, beginning of year 29,807 11,409 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash, end of year $ 17,137 $ 29,807 29 Cash flows from operating activities Cash used in operating activities in 2022 of $7.8 million was primarily due to net loss of $0.4 million, a decrease in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $12.9 million, which included $9.3 million in strategic inventory purchases, partially offset by adjustments for certain non-cash items of $5.5 million, consisting primarily of depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. Cash provided by operating activities in 2021 of $1.2 million was primarily due to net income of $1.6 million and adjustments for certain non-cash items of $4.0 million, consisting primarily of depreciation, amortization, amortization of debt issuance costs, stock-based compensation, gain on forgiveness of the Paycheck Protection Program note and impairment of a right-of-use operating lease asset, partially offset by a decrease in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $4.4 million. Cash flows from investing activities Cash used in investing activities in 2022 of $3.9 million was primarily due to capital investment expenditures in our manufacturing facility in Singapore and our research and development facility in Germany. Cash used in investing activities in 2021 of $1.5 million was primarily due to $2.1 million of capital investment expenditures in our manufacturing facility in Singapore and our research and development facility in Germany, partially offset by $0.6 million related to proceeds received from an investment. Cash flows from financing activities Cash used in financing activities in 2022 was primarily due to taxes paid related to net share settlement of restricted stock units of $1.0 million. Cash provided by financing activities in 2021 was primarily due to net proceeds of $37.6 million received from the sale of common stock in an underwritten public offering, partially offset by net repayments under our revolving loan facility of $14.6 million, repayments of promissory notes of $2.8 million to 21 April Fund, LP and 21 April Fund, Ltd., and taxes paid related to net share settlement of restricted stock units of $1.2 million. Contractual Obligations We lease facilities, certain equipment, and automobiles under non-cancelable operating lease agreements. See Note 14, Leases , in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements. Purchases for inventories are highly dependent upon forecasts of customer demand. Due to the uncertainty in demand from our customers, we may have to change, reschedule, or cancel purchases or purchase orders from our suppliers. These changes may lead to vendor cancellation charges on these orders or contractual commitments. See Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies , in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements. Our other long-term liabilities include gross unrecognized tax benefits, and related interest and penalties. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years in connection with these tax liabilities. Accordingly, such amounts are not included in the table above. Climate Change We believe that neither climate change, nor governmental regulations related to climate change, have had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors, which we believe are reasonable based upon the information available to us at the time these 30 estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when we transfer control of the promised products or services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of our products, software licenses, and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation, generally on a relative basis using its standalone selling price. The stated contract value is generally the transaction price to be allocated to the separate performance obligations. Revenue is recognized net of any taxes collected from our customers that are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. Nature of Products and Services We derive our revenues from sales of hardware products, software licenses, subscriptions, professional services, software maintenance and support, and extended hardware warranties. Hardware Product Revenues We generally have two performance obligations in arrangements involving the sale of hardware products. The first performance obligation is to transfer the hardware product (which includes software integral to the functionality of the hardware product). The second performance obligation is to provide assurance that the product complies with its agreed-upon specifications and is free from defects in material and workmanship for a period of one to three years (i.e., assurance warranty). The entire transaction price is allocated to the hardware product and is generally recognized as revenue at the time of shipment because the customer obtains control of the product at that point in time. We have concluded that control generally transfers at that point in time because the customer has title to the hardware, and a present obligation to pay for the hardware. None of the transaction price is allocated to the assurance warranty component, as we account for these product warranty costs in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 460, Guarantees . Software License Revenues Our license arrangements grant customers the perpetual right to access and use the licensed software products at the outset of an arrangement. Technical support and software updates are generally made available throughout the term of the support agreement, which is generally one to three years. We account for these arrangements as two performance obligations: (1) the software licenses, and (2) the related updates and technical support. The software license revenue is recognized when the license is delivered to the customer or made available for download, while the software updates and technical support revenue is recognized over the term of the support contract. Subscription Revenues Subscription revenues consist of fees received in consideration for providing customers access to one or more of our software-as-a-service (SaaS) based solutions. These SaaS arrangements include access to our licensed software and, in certain arrangements, use of various hardware devices over the contract term. These SaaS arrangements do not provide the customer the right to take possession of the software supporting the subscription service, or if applicable, any hardware devices at any time during the contract period, and as such are not considered separate performance obligations. Revenue is recognized ratably on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract beginning when the service is made available to the customer. Subscription contract terms range from month-to-month to six years in length and billed monthly or annually. Professional Services Revenues Professional services revenues consist primarily of programming customization services performed relating to the integration of our software products with our customers other systems, such as HR systems. Professional services contracts are generally billed on a time and materials basis and revenue is recognized as the services are performed. Software Maintenance and Support Revenues Support and maintenance contract revenues consist of the services provided to support the specialized programming applications performed by our professional services group. Support and maintenance contracts are typically billed at inception of the contract and recognized as revenue over the contract period, typically over a one or three year period. Extended Hardware Warranties Revenues Sales of our hardware products may also include optional extended hardware warranties, which typically provide assurance that the product will continue function as initially intended. Extended hardware warranty contracts are typically billed at inception of the contract and recognized as revenue over the respective contract period, typically over one to two year periods after the expiration of the original assurance warranty. 31 Significant Judgments Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. For such arrangements, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling price (SSP). Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation in a contract. For the majority of items, we estimate SSP using historical transaction data. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of our products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when the product or service is not sold separately, we determine the SSPs using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. The determination of SSP is an ongoing process and information is reviewed regularly in order to ensure SSPs reflect the most current information or trends. Contract Balances Amounts invoiced in advance of services being provided are accounted for as deferred revenue. The deferred revenue balance is primarily related software maintenance contracts. Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although payment is typically due within 30 to 60 days of contract inception. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined our contracts do not include a significant financing component. The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, not to receive financing from our customers. Amounts recognized as revenue in excess of amounts billed are recorded as unbilled receivables and are included in other current assets on the consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the amount of unbilled receivables were immaterial. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Our allowance for doubtful accounts is based on our assessment of the collectability of customer accounts. We regularly review our receivables that remain outstanding past their applicable payment terms and establish an allowance and potential write-offs by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, age of the accounts receivable balances, and current economic conditions that may affect a customers ability to pay. Although we expect to collect net amounts due as stated on the consolidated balance sheets, actual collections may differ from these estimated amounts. Inventory Valuation Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (using average cost or standard cost, as applicable) or net realizable value (market). We typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which can be highly unpredictable and can fluctuate significantly. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand and record an estimated provision for excess inventory based on judgment and assumptions involving an evaluation of technical obsolescence and our ability to sell based primarily on historical sales patterns and expectations for future demand. Actual demand and market conditions may differ from the projections utilized by management in establishing our inventory reserves. If we were to use different assumptions or utilize different estimates, the amount and timing of our inventory write-downs could be materially different. Adverse changes in our inventory valuations could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. 32 Income Taxes Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect managements assessment of estimated current and future income taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits. Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which are expected to result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, for all material jurisdictions, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax balances, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies and results of recent operations. In projecting future taxable income, we begin with historical results and incorporate assumptions about the amount of future state, federal and foreign pretax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses. In evaluating the objective evidence that historical results provide, we consider three years of cumulative operating results. As of December 31, 2022, we have federal and state income tax net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of $121.0 million and $50.3 million, respectively, which will expire at various dates. We believe that it is more likely than not that the benefit from these NOL carryforwards will not be realized. Accordingly, we have provided a full valuation allowance on any potential deferred tax assets relating to these NOL carryforwards. If our assumptions change and we determine we will be able to realize these NOLs, the tax benefits relating to any reversal of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2022, will be accounted for as a reduction of income tax expense. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves evaluating uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. ASC 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740) states that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including the resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, on the basis of the technical merits. We record unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740 and adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available. Because of the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a tax payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which new information is made available. We believe that none of the unrecognized tax benefits, excluding the associated interest and penalties, which are insignificant, may be recognized by the end of 2022. We consider the earnings of all our non-U.S. subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States on the basis of estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs and our specific plans for reinvestment of those subsidiary earnings. Should we decide to repatriate foreign earnings, we would need to adjust our income tax provision in the period we determined that the earnings will no longer be indefinitely invested outside the United States. 33 Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of consideration transferred in a business combination, over the fair value of assets acquired, net of liabilities assumed. In accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other , goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment on an annual basis, in the fourth quarter, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. We perform an initial assessment of qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events and circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In performing the qualitative assessment, we identify and consider the significance of relevant key factors, events, and circumstances that affect the fair value of its reporting units. These factors include external factors such as macroeconomic, industry, and market conditions, as well as entity-specific factors, such as actual and planned financial performance. If, after assessing the totality of relevant events and circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value and there is no indication of impairment, no further testing is performed; however, if we conclude otherwise, then we will perform the quantitative impairment test which compares the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit is in excess of its fair value, an impairment loss would be recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (loss). Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets We evaluate our identifiable amortizable intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment in accordance with ASC 360, Property, Plant and Equipment, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets or intangibles may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by an asset group. If such asset groups are considered to be impaired (i.e., if the sum of its estimated future undiscounted cash flows used to test for recoverability is less than its carrying value), the impairment loss to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds the fair value of the asset group. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from customer relationships, developed technology, and trademarks; and discount rates. Management estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Leases We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use (ROU) assets, operating lease liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of future payments. The operating lease ROU assets also include any lease payments made and exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred. Our lease terms may include options to extend the lease when it is reasonably certain that they we will exercise that option. Lease expense for minimum lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which is accounted for as a single lease component. Stock-based Compensation We recognize stock-based compensation expense for all share-based payment awards in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation Stock Compensation . Stock-based compensation expense for expected-to-vest awards is valued under the single-option approach and amortized on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures. We utilize the Black Scholes pricing model in order to determine the fair value of stock-based option awards. The Black Scholes pricing model requires various highly subjective assumptions including volatility, expected option life, and risk-free interest rate. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share-based payment awards represent managements best estimates. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. If factors change and different assumptions are used, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those expected-to-vest shares. If our actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our estimate, our recorded stock-based compensation expense and operating results could be different. 34 Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, which is incorporated herein by reference. 10b5-1 Trading Plans From time to time, our executive officers and directors have, and we expect they will in the future, enter into written trading plans pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATI VE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are primarily exposed to changes in currency exchange rates as certain of our operations are conducted in foreign currencies such as the Indian Rupee, the Canadian Dollar, and the Euro. Economic Exposure We transact business in various foreign currencies and have significant international revenues, as well as costs denominated in foreign currencies. This exposes us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our objective is to identify material foreign currency exposures and to manage these exposures to minimize the potential effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated financial statements. Transaction Exposure Our exposure to foreign currency transaction gains and losses is the result of assets and liabilities (including inter-company transactions) that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entitys functional currency. In certain circumstances, changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities create fluctuations in our consolidated financial statements. We have performed sensitivity analyses as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 using a modeling technique that evaluated the hypothetical impact of a 10% movement in the value of the U.S. Dollar compared to the functional currency of the foreign subsidiary, with all other variables held constant, to determine the incremental transaction gains or losses that would have been incurred. The foreign exchange rates used were based on market rates in effect at each of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. The results of these sensitivity analyses indicated that the impact on a hypothetical 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in increased foreign currency gains or losses of $1.1 million as of December 31, 2022 and $0.4 million as of December 31, 2021. Translation Exposure We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. Dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the foreign subsidiaries financial statements into U.S. Dollars results in a gain or loss which is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in our condensed consolidated statements of stockholders equity. With respect to our international operations, we have re-measured accounts which are denominated in the non-functional currencies into the functional currency of the subsidiary and recorded the resulting gains (losses) within foreign currency gains (losses), net in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss). We re-measure all monetary assets and liabilities at the current exchange rate at the end of the period, non-monetary assets and liabilities at historical exchange rates, and revenue and expenses at average exchange rates in effect during the periods. 35