Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report quarterly report on Form 10-Q (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Arrowroot Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to Arrowroot Acquisition LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 31, 2022. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 2020 for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities through March 31, 2022 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we had net income of approximately $6.0 million, which consists of income of approximately $6.3 million derived from the changes in fair value of the warrant liabilities and interest income earned on investments held in the Trust Account of approximately $26,000, offset by operation costs of approximately $0.4 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had net income of approximately $1.6 million, which consists of income of approximately $2.6 million derived from the changes in fair value of the warrant liabilities and interest income earned on investments held in the Trust Account of approximately $1,900, offset by operation costs of approximately $1.0 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources On March 4, 2021, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 28,750,000 Units which includes the full exercise by the underwriter of its over-allotment option in the amount of 3,750,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $287,500,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 8,250,000 Private Placement Warrants at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant in a private placement to Arrowroot Acquisition LLC, generating gross proceeds of $8,250,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the full exercise of the over-allotment option, and the sale of the Private Units, a total of $287,500,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $16,392,714 in transaction costs related to the Initial Public Offering, consisting of $5,750,000 in cash underwriting fees, $10,062,500 of deferred underwriting fees and $580,214 of other offering costs. 16 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $365,845. Net income of $5,921,767 was affected by income related to the change in fair value of the warrant liabilities of $6,335,000 and interest earned on marketable securities held in trust account of $25,629. Net changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $73,017 of cash for operating activities. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $1,077,577. Net income of $1,630,620 was affected by income related to the change in fair value of the warrant liabilities of $2,571,250, transaction costs allocable to warrants of $760,022 and interest earned on marketable securities held in trust account of $1,891. Net changes in operating assets and liabilities used $895,078 of cash for operating activities. As of March 31, 2022, we had cash and marketable securities held in the trust account of $287,523,763 (including $23,763 of interest) consisting of money market funds which invest primarily in U.S. Treasury Bills with a maturity of 185 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the trust account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through March 31, 2022, we withdrew an amount of $25,500 interest earned from the trust account to pay franchise and income taxes. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the trust account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the trust account (less income taxes payable), to complete our business combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the trust account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of March 31, 2022, we had cash of $122,326. We intend to use the funds held outside the trust account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a business combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a business combination, the sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors or their affiliates may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a business combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a business combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the trust account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our trust account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into warrants of the post-business combination entity at a price of $1.00 per warrant. The warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants. On December 29, 2021, we issued an unsecured promissory note (the Promissory Note) in the principal amount of up to $1,500,000 to our Sponsor, of which $750,000 was funded by the Sponsor upon execution of the Promissory Note and an additional amount of $200,000 was drawn down on March 17, 2022, after which $950,000 was outstanding under the Promissory Note. As of March 31, 2022, $550,000 remained available under the Promissory Note for future drawdowns. The Promissory Note, which may be further drawn down from time to time prior to the Maturity Date (defined below) upon request by the Company, is subject to the Sponsors approval and does not bear interest. The principal balance of the note will be payable on the earliest to occur of (i) the date on which the Company consummates its initial business combination or (ii) the date that the winding up of the Company is effective (such date, the Maturity Date). In the event the Company consummates its initial business combination, the Sponsor has the option on the Maturity Date to convert all or any portion of the principal outstanding under the Promissory Note into that number of warrants (Working Capital Warrants) equal to the portion of the principal amount of the Promissory Note being converted divided by $1.00, rounded up to the nearest whole number. The terms of the Working Capital Warrants, if any, would be identical to the terms of the private placement warrants issued by the Company at the time of its initial public offering, as described in the prospectus for the initial public offering dated March 1, 2021 and filed with the SEC, including the transfer restrictions applicable thereto. The Promissory Note is subject to customary events of default, the occurrence of certain of which automatically triggers the unpaid principal balance of the Promissory Note and all other sums payable with regard to the Promissory Note becoming immediately due and payable. If our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a business combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our business combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our business combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon consummation of our business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. Going Concern In connection with the Companys assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with FASBs Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-15, Disclosures of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, management has determined that if the Company is unable to raise additional funds to alleviate liquidity needs, obtain approval for an extension of the deadline or complete a Business Combination by March 4, 2023, then the Company will cease all operations except for the purpose of liquidating. The liquidity condition and date for mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should the Company be required to liquidate after March 4, 2023. The Company intends to complete a Business Combination before the mandatory liquidation date or obtain approval for an extension. Further, to satisfy liquidity needs, the Company intends to draw down on the existing Promissory Note. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2022. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. 17 Table of Contents Contractual obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay the Sponsor a monthly fee of $20,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support services. We began incurring these fees on March 4, 2021 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and our liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $10,062,500 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Warrant Liabilities We account for the Warrants in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 815-40 under which the Warrants do not meet the criteria for equity treatment and must be recorded as liabilities. Accordingly, we classify the Warrants as liabilities at their fair value and adjust the Warrants to fair value at each reporting period. This liability is subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in our statement of operations. The Private Placement Warrants and the Public Warrants for periods where no observable traded price was available are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. For periods subsequent to the detachment of the Public Warrants from the Units, the Public Warrant quoted market price was used as the fair value as of each relevant date. Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Shares of Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption are classified as a liability instrument and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that feature redemption rights that is either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our Class A common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our balance sheet. Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share The Company complies with accounting and disclosure requirements of FASB ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share. The company has two classes of common stock, which are referred to as Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Income and losses are shared pro rata between the two classes of common stock. Net income (loss) per common stock is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common stock outstanding for the period. Accretion associated with the redeemable shares of Class A common stock is excluded from income (loss) per common share as the redemption value approximates fair value. Recent Accounting Standards In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. ASU 2020-06 removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception and it also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. ASU 2020-06 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. Management is currently evaluating the new guidance but does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our financial statements. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements. 18 Table of Contents