Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report quarterly report on Form 10-Q (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Arrowroot Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to Arrowroot Acquisition LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible Business Combination, including our Proposed Business Combination, and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 31, 2023. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 2020 for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. On February 28, 2023, the Companys stockholders held a special meeting (the Special Meeting) where the date by which we have to consummate a Business Combination (as defined below) was extended from March 4, 2023 to the Extension Date (as defined below). In connection with the extension vote, 24,304,187 Class A common stock were redeemed for an aggregate redemption amount of approximately $247,259,068. After the satisfaction of such redemptions, the balance in our trust account (the Trust Account) was approximately $45,229,556. The balance in the Trust Account as of September 30, 2023 was $46,049,915. Recent Developments As described in greater detail in Note 1 - Description of Organization and Business Operations to the notes to the unaudited financial statements included herein under Part I, Item 1, on April 27, 2023, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with ARAC Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (Merger Sub), and iLearningEngines, Inc., a Delaware corporation (iLearningEngines).(the Proposed Business Combination). Unless specifically stated, this Quarterly Report does not give effect to the Proposed Business Combination and does not contain the risks associated with the Proposed Business Combination. The consummation of the Proposed Business Combination is subject to certain conditions as further described in the Merger Agreement. Notwithstanding our current Proposed Business Combination, in the event that such Merger Agreement is not consummated for any reason in the future, we may pursue an initial Business Combination opportunity in any business, industry, sector or geographical location. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of plans completing the Proposed Business Combination. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete Proposed Business Combination, or any Business Combination will be successful. As described in greater detail in Note 6 Related Party Transactions, on April 26, 2023, the Company and Polar Multi-Strategy Master Fund, a Cayman Islands exempted company (Polar) entered into an agreement (Forward Purchase Agreement), pursuant to which, among other things, the Company agreed to purchase up to 2,500,000 shares from Polar at $10.77 per share (the Initial Price), which is $10.17 (the Redemption Price, plus $0.60). In exchange for the Companys purchase of the shares, Polar agreed to waive redemption rights on the shares that Polar owns in connection with the Business Combination. The Forward Purchase Agreement provides that at the closing of the Business Combination, the Company will pre-pay Polar for the forward purchase an amount equal to sum of (x) the number of Class A Ordinary Shares owned by Polar on the day prior to the closing of a business combination multiplied by the Redemption Price (the Polar Shares) and (y) the proceeds from Polars purchase of a number of Class A Ordinary Shares of up to 2,500,000 shares less the Polar Shares (the Prepayment Amount). 27 The scheduled maturity date of the forward transaction is one year from the closing of the Business Combination (the Maturity Date), except that the Maturity Date may be accelerated if the shares trade under $2.00 for 10 out of 30 days or the shares are delisted by Nasdaq. Polar has the right to early terminate the transaction (in whole or in part) before the Maturity Date by delivering notice to the Company. If Polar terminates the Forward Purchase Agreement with respect to some or all of the shares prior to the Maturity Date, Polar will return an amount to the Company equal to the number of terminated shares multiplied by the Redemption Price. The Company can terminate the Forward Purchase Agreement prior to the redemption deadline if the Company pays Polar a $300,000 break-up fee. On the Maturity Date, the Company may be required to make a cash payment to Polar if Polar has not terminated the Forward Purchase Agreement in full equal to the number of shares (less any shares terminated prior to the Maturity Date) multiplied by $0.60. Results of Operations The Company was formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (a Business Combination). We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities through September 30, 2023, were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and identifying a target company for a Business Combination, including in connection with the Proposed Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended September 30, 2023, we had net income of $275,535, which consists of income of $1,583,750 derived from the changes in fair value of the warrant liabilities and interest income earned on cash held in the Trust Account of $435,890, offset by general and administrative expenses of $1,638,429 million and provision for income tax of $79,210. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we had net loss of $6,798,321, which consists of loss of $3,962,500 derived from the changes in fair value of the warrant liabilities, general and administrative expenses of $3,851,311, change in fair value of FPA Liability of $1,500,000, interest expense promissory note of $31,356 and provision for income tax of $502,869, offset by interest income earned on investments held in the Trust Account of $3,049,715. For the three months ended September 30, 2022, we had net income of approximately $0.9 million, which consists of income of approximately $0.2 million derived from the changes in fair value of the warrant liabilities and interest income earned on investments held in the Trust Account of approximately $1.2 million, offset by general and administrative expenses of approximately $0.4 million and provision for income tax of $244,044. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, we had net income of approximately $11.3 million, which consists of income of approximately $11.1 million derived from the changes in fair value of the warrant liabilities and interest income earned on investments held in the Trust Account of approximately $1.6 million, offset by general and administrative expenses of approximately $1.1 million and provision for income tax of $265,764. Liquidity and Capital Resources On March 4, 2021, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 28,750,000 Units which includes the full exercise by the underwriter of its over-allotment option in the amount of 3,750,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $287,500,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 8,250,000 Private Placement Warrants at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant in a private placement to our Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $8,250,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the full exercise of the over-allotment option, and the sale of the Private Units, a total of $287,500,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $16,392,714 in transaction costs related to the Initial Public Offering, consisting of $5,750,000 in cash underwriting fees, $10,062,500 of deferred underwriting fees and $580,214 of other offering costs. On February 28, 2023, the Companys stockholders held the Special Meeting and approved and adopted an amendment to its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to extend the period of time for which the Company is required to consummate a Business Combination from March 4, 2023 (the Original Termination Date) to July 6, 2023 (the Charter Extension Date) and to allow the Company, without another stockholder vote, to elect to extend the Termination Date to consummate an initial Business Combination on a monthly basis for up to seven times by an additional one month each time after the Charter Extension Date, by resolution of the Board if requested by the Sponsor, and upon five days advance notice prior to the applicable Termination Date, until February 4, 2024 (each, an Additional Charter Extension Date) or a total of up to eleven months after the Original Termination Date, unless the closing of an initial Business Combination shall have occurred prior thereto (the Extension, such extension deadline, the Extension Date, and such proposal, the Extension Proposal). In connection with the Extension, shareholders holding 24,304,187 shares of the Companys Class A common stock exercised their right to redeem such shares for a pro rata portion of the funds in the Companys Trust Account at a redemption price of approximately $10.17 per share. As a result, following the Special Meeting, approximately $247,259,068 in cash was removed from the Trust Account to pay such holders. 28 For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, cash used in operating activities was $2,804,811. Net loss of $6,798,321 was affected by income related to the change in fair value of the warrant liabilities of $3,962,500, $1,500,000 loss related to the initial value of the Forward Purchase Agreement, and interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $3,049,716. Net changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $1,580,726 of cash for operating activities. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $1,000,520. Net income of $11,280,745 was affected by income related to the change in fair value of the warrant liabilities of $11,081,250 and interest earned on marketable securities held in trust account of $1,592,222. Net changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $184,443 of cash for operating activities. As of September 30, 2023, we had cash held in the Trust Account of $46,049,915 (including $471,785 of interest) . Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through September 30, 2023, we withdrew an amount of $1,598,650 interest earned from the Trust Account to pay franchise and income taxes and approximately $247,259,068 in connection with redemption. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less income taxes payable), to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of September 30, 2023, we had cash of $639,819. If we do not complete the Proposed Business Combination, then we intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination (which we currently anticipate will be the Proposed Business Combination). In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors or their affiliates may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into warrants of the post-Business Combination entity at a price of $1.00 per warrant. The warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants. On December 21, 2020, the Sponsor issued an unsecured promissory note to the Company (the IPO Promissory Note), pursuant to which the Company may borrow up to an aggregate principal amount of $300,000. The outstanding balance under the IPO Promissory Note of $149,992 was repaid at the closing of the initial public offering on March 4, 2021. On December 29, 2021, the Company issued an unsecured promissory note (the First Promissory Note) in the principal amount of up to $1,500,000 to its Sponsor, of which $750,000 was funded by the Sponsor upon execution of the First Promissory Note and an additional amount of $200,000 was drawn down on March 17, 2022. On April 21, 2022, the Company drew down the remaining $550,000 pursuant to the terms of the First Promissory Note issued on December 29, 2021. Following this draw down, the full $1,500,000 available under the First Promissory Note was outstanding. There are no remaining funds available under the First Promissory Note for future drawdowns. As of September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, $1,500,000 and $1,500,000 were outstanding under this First Promissory Note, respectively. The First Promissory Note does not bear interest. The principal balance of the First Promissory Note will be payable on the earliest to occur of (i) the date on which the Company consummates its initial Business Combination or (ii) the date that the winding up of the Company is effective (such date, the Maturity Date). In the event the Company consummates its initial Business Combination, the Sponsor has the option on the Maturity Date to convert all or any portion of the principal outstanding under the First Promissory Note into that number of warrants (Working Capital Warrants) equal to the portion of the principal amount of the First Promissory Note being converted divided by $1.00, rounded up to the nearest whole number. The terms of the Working Capital Warrants, if any, would be identical to the terms of the private placement warrants issued by the Company at the time of its initial public offering, as described in the prospectus for the initial public offering dated March 1, 2021 and filed with the SEC, including the transfer restrictions applicable thereto. The Promissory Notes are subject to customary events of default, the occurrence of certain of which automatically triggers the unpaid principal balance of the Promissory Notes and all other sums payable with regard to the Promissory Notes becoming immediately due and payable. On February 23, 2023, the Company issued an unsecured promissory note in the principal amount of $500,000 in favor of the Sponsor (the Second Promissory Note), which was funded in full by the Sponsor upon execution of the Second Promissory Note. The Second Promissory Note is not convertible into Working Capital Warrants or any other security pursuant to its terms. As of September 30, 2023, the Company had $500,000 outstanding balance under this Second Promissory Note. 29 In connection with the approval by the Companys stockholders of the Extension Date at the Special Meeting, the Sponsor issued to the Company an unsecured promissory note that matures upon the Company closing its initial Business Combination (the Third Promissory Note). Following the Extension Proposal being approved, the Sponsor funded $640,000 of the Third Promissory Note. Pursuant to the terms of the Third Promissory Note, on each Additional Charter Extension Date, the Sponsor must fund the lesser of (a) $160,000 or (b) $0.04 for each public share that is not redeemed in connection with the Special Meeting for an aggregate deposit of up to the lesser of (x) $1,120,000 or (y) $0.28 for each public share that is not redeemed in connection with the Special Meeting (if all seven additional monthly extensions are exercised). As of September 30, 2023, the Company had $1,120,000 outstanding balance under this Third Promissory Note. If the Company completes an initial Business Combination, the Company will, at the option of the Sponsor, repay the amounts loaned under the Third Promissory Note or convert a portion or all of the amounts loaned under such promissory note into warrants, which warrants will be identical to the private placement warrants issued in connection with the Companys initial public offering. If the Company does not complete an initial Business Combination by the Extension Date, such promissory note will be repaid only from funds held outside of the Trust Account or will be forfeited, eliminated or otherwise forgiven. On June 13, 2023, the Company issued an unsecured promissory note (the Fourth Promissory Note and together with the First Promissory Note, the Second Promissory Note and the Third Promissory Note, the Promissory Notes) in the principal amount of $2,000,000 to the Sponsor, of which $700,000 was funded by the Sponsor upon execution of the Fourth Promissory Note. On September 27, 2023, the Company drew down an additional amount of $500,000 pursuant to the terms of the Fourth Promissory Note, after which $1,200,000 was outstanding under the Note. There remains $800,000 available under the Note for future drawdowns. The Fourth Promissory Note bears interest at 15% per annum and matures upon closing of the Companys initial Business Combination. In the event that the Company does not consummate an initial Business Combination, the Fourth Promissory Note will be repaid only from funds held outside of the Trust Account or will be forfeited, eliminated or otherwise forgiven. The Fourth Promissory Note may be further drawn down from time to time prior to the Maturity Date upon request by the Company subject to the Sponsors approval. The Fourth Promissory Note is subject to customary events of default, the occurrence of certain of which automatically triggers the unpaid principal balance of the Fourth Promissory Note and all other sums payable with regard to the Fourth Promissory Note becoming immediately due and payable. All of the Companys outstanding Promissory Notes are subject to customary events of default, the occurrence of certain of which automatically triggers the unpaid principal balance of the Promissory Notes and all other sums payable with regard to the promissory notes becoming immediately due and payable. However, notwithstanding the original terms the Promissory Notes, the Company and iLearningEngines have agreed, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, that if the Closing occurs, the Sponsor will have the option for the principal and interest outstanding under the Promissory Notes to be repaid in cash or convert into common stock of the Surviving Corporation at a price per share equal to $10.00 per share at the Closing; provided, however, that to the extent the Acquiror Transaction Expenses (as defined in the Merger Agreement) exceed $30,000,000, then the Promissory Notes will be settled by the conversion of an amount equal to the lesser of (i) the principal and interest outstanding under the Promissory Notes and (ii) the Excess Transaction Expenses (as defined in the Merger Agreement) into common stock of the Surviving Corporation at a price per share equal to $10.00 per share. If our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon consummation of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Based on the foregoing, management has determined that we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet our anticipated obligations for at least twelve months after the financial statements are available to be issued, as such, the events and circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, as discussed further below. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and do not include any adjustments that might arise as a result of uncertainties about our ability to continue as a going concern. Going Concern In connection with the Companys assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with FASBs Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-15, Disclosures of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, management has determined that if the Company is unable to raise additional funds to alleviate liquidity needs, obtain approval for an extension of the deadline or complete a Business Combination by November 6, 2023 (the Extension) but no later than February 4, 2024, then the Company will cease all operations except for the purpose of liquidating. The liquidity condition and date for mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should the Company be required to liquidate after the Extension Date. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2023. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. 30 Contractual obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay the Sponsor a monthly fee of $20,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support services. We began incurring these fees on March 4, 2021 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and our liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $10,062,500 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies estimates: Warrant Liabilities We account for the Warrants in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 815-40 under which the Warrants do not meet the criteria for equity treatment and must be recorded as liabilities. Accordingly, we classify the Warrants as liabilities at their fair value and adjust the Warrants to fair value at each reporting period. This liability is subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in our unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. The Private Placement Warrants and the Public Warrants for periods where no observable traded price was available are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. For periods subsequent to the detachment of the Public Warrants from the Units, the Public Warrant quoted market price was used as the fair value as of each relevant date. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.