Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements containing words such as may, believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, project, projections, business outlook, estimate, or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition or state other forward-looking information. These statements relate to our future plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. They include, but are not limited to, statements about: our market opportunity; the adoption of RAIN RFID technology and solutions; our ability to compete effectively against competitors and competing technologies; our market share and technology leadership; and the implementation of our business model, strategic plans and product development plans; the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, including on macroeconomic conditions and our business, results of operations and financial condition; our future financial performance, including our average selling prices, gross margins, liquidity and capital resources, as well as future macroeconomic conditions; the performance of third parties on which we rely for product manufacturing, assembly and testing; and our relationship with third parties on which we rely for product distribution, sales, integratio n and development; our ability to adequately protect our intellectual property; the regulatory regime for our products and services; and our leadership of standards-setting processes. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, including those factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors). In light of the significant uncertainties and risks inherent in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or anyone else that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all, or as predictions of future events. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Our Business Our vision is digital life for everyday items. We are driving a future in which everyday physical items are wirelessly connected to digital counterparts, or digital twins, in the cloud, and in which businesses and people engage with those everyday physical items via their digital twins. Our mission is to deliver a platform that powers that item-to-cloud connectivity and to enable developers to innovate Internet-of-Things, or IoT, applications on our platform. Today, we deliver the identity, location and authenticity of billions of physical items; we believe our future is delivering the identity, location and authenticity of trillions of everyday items and enabling those cloud-based digital twins, each storing an individual items ownership, history and links, and enabling ubiquitous access to them. We believe the item-to-cloud connectivity that we will deliver will enhance businesses efficiencies and commerce, and ultimately, improve peoples lives. Our platform connects individual items, capturing and delivering data about each item from manufacturing through distribution to sale. We and our channel partners connect those items via a miniature radio chip embedded in the item or in its packaging, reading and delivering the items unique identity, location and authenticity to business and consumer applications. To date, we have enabled connectivity to more than 40 billion items, enabling retailers, hospitals, airlines, automotive manufacturers, logistics providers, shippers and business in many other industries to derive timely business value from those connected items. We believe our opportunity is to ultimately connect trillions of everyday items, and to deliver valuable information about those items not just to businesses, but also to everyday people, extending and delivering an items digital life to the person that buys and owns the item. Our platform comprises three layers: (1) endpoint integrated circuits, or ICs, (2) connectivity and (3) software that together deliver item data to business and consumer applications. We link the layers of our platform to deliver advanced capabilities and performance that surpasses mix-and-match solutions built from competitor products. Within each layer we sell one or more product families. 18 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Our Performance Covid-19 Pandemic We are monitoring the current and future impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on all aspects of our business, including how the pandemic will affect our customers, end-users, suppliers and other business partners. We anticipate overall 2020 retail demand to be adversely affected by Covid-19 but are unable to reliably forecast the extent of its impact on our endpoint IC revenue. Even under normal circumstances, forecasting endpoint IC revenue is difficult because we sell endpoint ICs primarily through our inlay partners, which limits our ability to forecast demand from the end users. This forecasting challenge is exacerbated by the uncertain extent and duration of Covid-19s impact to the global economy generally and the retail industry in particular; the degree to which Covid-19 may cause long-term shifts, both positive and negative, in various industries important to us including retail, shipping and logistics; and other uncertainties relating to the Covid-19 pandemic. We continue to see evidence of continued adoption of RAIN by some large businesses, but the extent to which such adoption will proceed, or the degree to which such adoption will mitigate the negative impacts of Covid-19 generally, is unclear. Covid-19 has already caused delays in some pending and planned global system deployments with some system integrators, value-added resellers and their related end-customers business locations closed as a result of government travel and business restrictions, impacting our ability to replace project-based revenue from completed projects. Some companies have announced plans to reduce or defer capital expenditures in response to Covid-19, which may impact our operating results in 2020 and beyond. Several of our suppliers have been impacted by Covid-19 and have either experienced temporary closures or are operating at reduced capacity. For example, factories in Malaysia that produce our readers and gateways and post-process certain of our endpoint ICs were shut down for approximately three weeks due to Covid-19-related public health measures. As of the date of this report they have returned to production, albeit at reduced levels. We also experienced challenges shipping products due to reduced transport capacity and increased costs as a result of Covid-19-related disruptions. Moreover, Covid-19 related restrictions on our suppliers and inlay partners will delay the availability of inlays incorporating our M700 endpoint ICs by over two months While we were able to fulfill all endpoint IC orders for first-quarter 2020 and believe we have sufficient inventory to satisfy our expected needs for endpoint ICs for second-quarter 2020, given the uncertainty associated with the Covid-19 pandemic, there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy demand for our products in a cost-effective manner. If our Asian or other suppliers are unable to meet, or are delayed in meeting, our expectations as a result of Covid-19-related restrictions on their operations or logistics providers, deterioration of their financial condition or otherwise, we might be unable to meet customer demand and that inability may persist for a significant period of time. Most of our facilities and employees are based in Seattle, where the government has imposed restrictions designed to slow the spread of Covid-19. All our employees, other than those preforming certain limited functions, are working from home. We have attempted to minimize the impact of the Covid-19 restrictions on our operations. However, Covid-19 related restrictions on work and travel could adversely affect our performance by, for example, slowing our ability to develop and launch new products and to engage in usual sales activities requiring travel. In light of the Covid-19 pandemic we may slow or suspend our investments in significant long-term activities such as research and development, potentially impairing our ability to meet our long-term strategic objectives. We have also entered into an unsecured promissory note for approximately $5.8 million under the Paycheck Protection Program to avoid or delay layoffs, furloughs and other personnel cost-cutting actions. For further information on the terms of this debt, please refer to Note 11 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. While we expect the effects of the pandemic and the related responses to negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position, the uncertainty over the duration and severity of the epidemiological, economic and operational impacts of Covid-19 means we cannot reasonably estimate the extent of the financial impact of Covid-19. The extent to which the Covid-19 outbreak impacts our results will depend on future developments that are unpredictable, including actions needed to contain its spread and reduce its impact on public health. For more information on Covid-19, please refer to Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this report. 19 Table of Contents Investing in Growth We have invested and plan to continue investing in research and development to enhance and extend our platform, including enhancing existing products, introducing new products and tightening the platform linkages between our product offerings. We plan to enhance and expand our readers and gateways and how we leverage them, in conjunction with our software, for platform deployments in retail, supply chain and logistics and other industries. We also plan to continue developing next-generation reader and endpoint ICs. We have invested and plan to continue investing in sales and marketing to grow our sales reach, expand our market opportunities, deepen our integrations with our supply-chain partners and accelerate the development and adoption of solutions based on our platform. Most of our investments precede any sales benefit from the investment, and in some instances, we may never see a sales benefit. The potential causes of the latter are many, including the market not being receptive to our product or sales approach, late or failed product development, personnel departures or other causes. We sometimes enter into arrangements with end users, vendors or channel partners for them to fund a portion of our investment, but even in those instances the results of our investments remain uncertain, and in some instances we may be required to refund the investment if the development is unsuccessful or the market opportunity fails to materialize. In some instances, we delay or cancel investments without or until we obtain such funding. The outcome of any investment is almost always uncertain, and if our results do not meet our or your expectations then our operating results, profitability and stock price may be adversely affected. While our long-term vision of investing for growth remains unchanged, Covid-19 introduces new uncertainty in our business. We will monitor the impacts of Covid-19 on our supply chain, market and opportunities and may adjust our investment strategy as appropriate. Market Adoption Our financial performance depends on the pace, scope and depth of end-user adoption of our products in multiple industries, but especially in the retail industry which is our largest market. Covid-19 has had, and is expected to continue to have, a materially adverse impact on the retail industry. In addition, the Covid-19 pandemic may accelerate a long-term shift in consumer behavior away from physical stores and that may adversely impact demand for endpoint ICs over the longer term. T he extent and duration to which Covid-19 will materially impact the retail industry is unclear, as is the extent to which it will impact our product sales. Other industries that are potential future drivers of market adoption, have also been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, although the ultimate impact on RAIN adoption and on our business is unclear. For example, the aviation industry, with the potential for widespread bag-tagging, has been negatively impacted by Covid-19. However, shipping and logistics providers have experienced an increase in demand which could positively impact RAIN adoption. See the section captioned Covid-19 Pandemic for additional information . The pace, scope and depth of end-user adoption, even without the impact of Covid-19, remains uncertain, potentially causing large fluctuations in our operating results. For example, in 2015 and 2016 several major retailers and brand owners initiated deployments that significantly increased our endpoint IC sales, exceeding our expectations and those of our industrys analysts and lengthening our lead times. In 2017 we invested in internal endpoint IC inventory to reduce those lead times, meet forecasted demand and improve our ability to deliver in the event of continued demand growth. However, in the second half of 2017 the endpoint IC growth rate slowed, which we believe was due to several factors including, but not limited to, delays in new deployments and in planned expansions at several large retailers. That decelerating growth rate engendered an endpoint IC channel inventory correction that negatively impacted our operating results for several subsequent quarters. In response, we reduced our internal endpoint IC inventory in the second half of 2018 and throughout 2019. Given the uncertainties in our market, we cannot assure you that adoption will continue, we will have appropriate product inventory, we will not experience future product inventory shortfalls or overages, or that Covid-19 will not significantly impact our business. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or grow the market share of any of our products, as a result of insufficient inventory, Covid-19, competitors copying our products, competition generally or for a host of other reasons, many of which our outside of our control. Regardless of the uneven pace of retail and other industry adoption, we believe the underlying, long-term trend is continued RAIN adoption. We recently introduced our new Impinj M700 endpoint IC, which offers significant performance advantages and we believe will foster adoption. However, Covid-19 has already impacted our M700 rollout and adoption, and further delays in production or qualification may impact market share at these and other deployments in the near term. We also believe that expanding retail deployments foster RAIN adoption in other markets. For example, our reader and gateway sales in the second half of 2017 and our gateway sales in 2019 exceeded our expectations due to supply-chain end users deploying shipment-verification and asset-tracking use cases that demand real-time fixed reading. However, as noted below, at the current stage of RAIN adoption our revenue could decline on a quarterly or annual basis due to fluctuations caused by large-scale deployments by a limited number of large end-users. 20 Table of Contents We sell our products through channel partners and distributors and have limited ability to determine end-us er demand. As a consequence, we may incorrectly predict that demand or be unable to identify market shifts in a timely fashion, potentially affecting our business adversely. If RAIN market adoption, and adoption of our platform products specifically, does not meet our expectations or if we are unable to meet partner or end-user volume or performance expectations as a result of the impact of Covid-19 or otherwise then our operating results and growth prospects will be adversely affected. If we reduce prices to win opportunities, then our gross margins may be negatively affected. In contrast, if our endpoint IC, reader IC, reader module, reader, gateway or software sales exceed expectations, then our revenue and profitability may be positively affected. Timing and Complexity of Customer Deployments From 2010 to 2019, our endpoint IC unit sales volumes increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 28%, indicating growing adoption of RAIN-based solutions. However, the pace at which end users adopt RAIN has been uneven and unpredictable in scope and timing. For example, our endpoint IC unit sales volumes increased significantly in 2016, declined in the second half of 2017 and in the first half of 2018 and then returned to growth in the second half of 2018 and in 2019 (the latter albeit not at the same pace as in 2016). Short-term demand will remain unpredictable in scope and timing. For example, end users may eliminate or significantly reduce or delay spending on RAIN-based solutions to conserve cash in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Longer term, we believe our opportunity and our market will continue to grow, but we cannot predict whether historical annual growth rates are indicative of the pace of that future growth. Further, although we promote our platform as an integrated offering, we sell our products individually, and end users often use only certain of our products. For any given end-user solution, whether an end user chooses to deploy our entire platform or only a portion will also affect our operating results. Our systems business relies disproportionally on large-scale deployments at discrete end users. The timing of those large deployments causes large variability in our systems revenue. For example, we generated 14% of 2019 total revenue from a North American Systems customer in connection with a project-based gateway deployment. As of the date of this report, we do not have orders from this customer beyond first quarter of 2020. If we are unable to replace project-based revenue from these discrete projects with new revenue streams, or if end users with sizable projects change or delay them without giving us adequate notice, we may experience significant fluctuation in revenue on a quarterly or annual basis. We anticipate that uncertainty to continue to characterize our business for the foreseeable future. Notably, Covid-19 has caused delays in some of our pending global system deployments as system integrators, value-added resellers and their related end-customers business locations are temporarily closed, impacting our ability to replace project-based revenue from completed projects in a timely fashion. Average Selling Price Our product ASPs fluctuate based on competitive pressures and the discounting we offer to win opportunities, but generally decline over time. We expect that trend to continue. Historically, we have been able to implement manufacturing and quality improvements that effectively reduce the per-unit cost of most of our hardware products, as well as introduce newer and lower-cost products, but the timing of these cost reductions and product introductions fluctuates and may not materialize in any given quarter or year. Seasonality We typically renegotiate pricing with most of our endpoint IC customers with an effective date of the first quarter of the calendar year, reducing both revenue and gross margins in the first quarter when compared with prior periods. The impact tends to decline in subsequent quarters as we reduce costs and, to the extent we can migrate our customers to newer, lower-cost products, adjust product mix. Endpoint IC volumes also tend to be lower in the fourth quarter than the third quarter. System sales tend to be stronger in the fourth quarter of the calendar year, and less strong in the first quarter. We believe this seasonality is due to the availability of residual funding for capital expenditures prior to the end of many customers fiscal years. While, over the longer term, we expect these seasonal trends to continue, quarter-to-quarter variability in our revenue can be caused by a number of factors including uncertainty in demand and supply as a result of Covid-19, timing of large deployments, supply constraints, that can mask seasonality in any given year. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from managements expectations, are described in greater detail in the sections of this report captioned Covid-19 Pandemic Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) 21 Table of Contents Inventory Supply From time to time we experience inventory overages or shortages, either due to us mis-estimating customer or end-user demand, constrained supplier manufacturing capacity or product availability, fluctuations in our market or the global economy, changes in regulations or tariffs or for a host of other reasons. These inventory dynamics can impact some or all of our hardware products. High inventory levels can result in product obsolescence, increases in reserves or unexpected expenses that adversely affect our bu siness. Low inventory levels can affect our ability to meet customer demand, lengthen lead times and potentially causing us to miss opportunities, lose market share or damage customer relationships, also adversely affecting our business. For example, in 2010 we experienced wafer shortages from TSMC relative to our submitted endpoint IC wafer purchase orders because of high worldwide demand for semiconductor foundry capacity. These shortages adversely affected our ability to meet our customers demand and, in some cases, caused customers to cancel orders, qualify alternative suppliers or purchase from our competitors. Our existing ICs use 200mm wafers, and semiconductor industry analysts predict high 200mm wafer demand again in 2020. As of the date of this report, several of our suppliers have been impacted by Covid-19 and have either experienced temporary closures or are operating at reduced capacity as discussed above. Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2020 2019 Change Revenue $ 47,822 $ 33,063 $ 14,759 Gross profit $ 21,394 $ 15,873 $ 5,521 Gross margin 44.7 % 48.0 % (3.3 )% Loss from operations $ (3,395 ) $ (6,932 ) $ 3,537 Revenue and gross profit increased primarily due to higher endpoint IC revenue and, to a lesser extent, due to systems revenue, partially offset by higher excess and obsolescence charges. Our higher endpoint IC revenue was due to growth in our customers underlying business, including new opportunities, as well as revenue we believe are a result of customer concerns regarding global supply constraints due to Covid-19 coupled with our ability to respond to this demand by maintaining acceptable lead times throughout first-quarter 2020. Gross margin decreased primarily due to higher excess and obsolescence charges, partially offset by leverage derived from comparable overhead costs. We recorded $2.7 million in inventory excess and obsolescence charges for the three months ended March 31, 2020, causing an unfavorable 5.6% net impact to gross margins as described further below. Loss from operations decreased primarily due to increased gross profit, partially offset by increased operating expenses; a net increase in operating expenses was due to increased stock-based compensation expense . Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Change Endpoint ICs $ 33,675 $ 21,845 $ 11,830 Systems 14,147 11,218 2,929 Total revenue $ 47,822 $ 33,063 $ 14,759 We currently derive substantially all our revenue from sales of endpoint ICs, reader ICs, reader modules, readers and gateways. We sell our endpoint ICs primarily to inlay manufacturers; our reader ICs and reader modules primarily to OEMs and ODMs through distributors; and our readers and gateways to value-added resellers, or VARs, and system integrators, or SIs, primarily through distributors. We expect endpoint IC sales to represent a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. 22 Table of Contents Endpoint IC revenue increased $11.8 million primarily due to a $13.4 million increase in shipment volumes, partially offset by lower ASPs primarily due to product mix, and to a lesser extent, our annual price negotiations. Growth in our customers underlying business, including new opportunities, accounted for $7.2 million of the increased shipment volumes. We believe the remaining $6.2 million increase was a result of customer concerns regarding global supply constraints due to Covid-19, coupled with our ability to respond to this demand by maintaining acceptable lead times throughout first-quarter 2020. We do not expect endpoint IC revenue growth to continue at 54% in second-quarter 20 20. The Covid-19 impact to worldwide economies and the retail industry in particular; our future supply-chain uncertainties; the fact that we sell primarily through distribution so are at least one step removed from the end users; and a host of other relat ed uncertainties which change near-daily, make it difficult to forecast our endpoint IC revenue at this time . Systems revenue increased $2.9 million due primarily to $1.1 million in reader IC revenue and $1.0 million in gateway revenue, both from higher unit volumes. Due to Covid-19 we are experiencing delays to some of our global system deployments. Such delays will impact our ability to replace the North American project-based revenue noted in our fiscal year 2019 results. For more information, see the section captioned Risk FactorsCovid-19 has adversely affected our business, and the magnitude and duration of future Covid-19 effects on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and business prospects are uncertain. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2020 2019 Change Cost of revenue $ 26,428 $ 17,190 $ 9,238 Gross profit $ 21,394 $ 15,873 $ 5,521 Gross margin 44.7 % 48.0 % (3.3 )% Cost of revenue includes costs associated with manufacturing our endpoint ICs, reader ICs, reader modules, readers and gateways, including direct materials and outsourced manufacturing costs as well as associated overhead costs such as logistics, quality control, planning and procurement. Cost of revenue also includes charges for excess and obsolescence and warranty costs. Our gross margin varies from period to period based on mix of endpoint IC and systems revenue, underlying product margins driven by changes in ASPs or costs, as well as from charges for excess and obsolescence. Gross profit increased due to increased endpoint IC and systems revenue as mentioned above, partially offset by higher excess and obsolescence charges. We recorded $2.7 million in inventory excess and obsolescence charges for the three months ended March 31, 2020, causing an unfavorable 5.6% net impact to gross margins. The charges, which reduced the inventory value of impacted products to zero, relate primarily to decreased demand for endpoint ICs and gateways specifically designed for European applications. This demand decreased due to Covid-19s impact on EU businesses, especially the EU retail industry. We expect future demand to be met by newer endpoint IC and gateway products. Inventory excess and obsolescence charges, including the impact to gross margin were not material for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Change Research and development $ 11,057 $ 8,561 $ 2,496 Research and development expense primarily comprises personnel expenses (salaries, benefits and other employee related costs) and stock-based compensation expense for our product-development personnel; external consulting and service costs; prototype materials; other new-product development costs; and an allocated portion of infrastructure costs, which include occupancy, depreciation and software costs. We expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars in future periods as we focus on new product development and introductions; however we will continue to monitor the impacts of Covid-19 on our business and may adjust our research and development investment strategy as appropriate. Research and development expense increased $2.5 million primarily due to increases of $950,000 in stock-based compensation from 2019 PSUs and an increased number of stock options and RSUs and $923,000 in personnel expenses from increased headcount . 23 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Change Sales and marketing $ 7,490 $ 8,549 $ (1,059 ) Sales and marketing expense primarily comprises personnel expenses (salaries, incentive sales compensation, or commission, benefits and other employee related costs) and stock-based compensation expense for our sales and marketing personnel; travel, advertising and promotional expenses; and an allocated portion of infrastructure costs, which include occupancy, depreciation and software costs. We expect sales and marketing expense to remain approximately constant on an absolute dollar basis, except for incentive sales compensation which fluctuates as a function of revenue. In addition, we will continue to monitor the impacts of Covid-19 on our business and may adjust our sales and marketing expense as appropriate . Sales and marketing expense decreased $1.1 million due to a $1.2 million decrease in personnel expenses from decreased headcount. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Change General and administrative $ 6,242 $ 5,695 $ 547 General and administrative expense primarily comprises personnel expenses (salaries, benefits, and other employee related costs) and stock-based compensation expense for our executive, finance, human resources and information technology personnel; legal, accounting and other professional service fees; travel and insurance expense; and an allocated portion of infrastructure costs which include, occupancy, depreciation and software costs. We expect general and administrative expense to increase due to higher accounting and compliance costs as a result of being a public company and professional service fees related to our ongoing litigation. In addition, we will continue to monitor the impacts of Covid-19 on our business and may adjust our general and administrative expense as appropriate . General and administrative expense increased $547,000 primarily due to a $653,000 increase in stock-based compensation expense from 2019 PSUs and an increased number of stock options and RSUs . Other Income, net Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Change Other income, net $ 409 $ 321 $ 88 Other income, net for the three months ended March 31, 2020 remained comparable to the prior period. Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Change Interest expense $ 1,312 $ 429 $ 883 Interest expense consists primarily of cash interest, amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discount on our long-term debt. Interest expense increased $883,000, comprised primarily of an $854,000 increase in amortization of debt discount related to our subordinated convertible notes due 2026, or the 2019 Notes. For further information on the 2019 Notes, please refer to Note 6 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Change Income tax expense $ 28 $ 28 $ 24 Table of Contents We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Income tax expense remained comparable for the periods stated above. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Our key non-GAAP performance measures include adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income (loss), as defined below. We use adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income (loss) as key measures to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop sho rt- and long-term operating plans. We believe excluding those items provides useful information for period-to-period comparisons of our business to allow investors and others to understand and evaluate our operating results in the same manner as it does for our management and board of directors. Our presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from similarly termed non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA differently in this report than we have in the prior period, due to loss on debt extinguishment incurred in connection with the December 2019 repayment of our senior credit facility. We define adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP, excluding, if applicable for the periods presented, the effects of stock-based compensation; depreciation; investigation costs; restructuring costs; other income, net; interest expense; loss on debt extinguishment and income tax benefit (expense). We have excluded loss on debt extinguishment because we do not believe it reflects our core operations. The exclusion of loss on debt extinguishment does not impact adjusted EBITDA previously reported for prior periods. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Change Net loss $ (4,326 ) $ (7,068 ) $ 2,742 Adjustments: Other income, net (409 ) (321 ) (88 ) Interest expense 1,312 429 883 Income tax expense 28 28 - Depreciation 1,168 1,155 13 Stock-based compensation 5,221 3,477 1,744 Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,994 $ (2,300 ) $ 5,294 Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss) We define non-GAAP net income (loss) differently in this report than we have in the prior period due to the prepayment penalty on debt extinguishment incurred in connection with the December 2019 repayment of our senior credit facility and amortization of debt discount related to the equity component of the 2019 Notes. Amortization of debt issuance costs and non-cash income tax benefit (expense) are no longer excluded from non-GAAP net income (loss). We define non-GAAP net income (loss) as net income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP, excluding, if applicable for the periods presented, the effects of stock-based compensation; depreciation; investigation costs; restructuring costs; amortization of debt discount related to the equity component of our convertible notes; and prepayment penalty on debt extinguishment. We have revised the prior period non-GAAP net income (loss) to conform to our current period presentation. GAAP requires that certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion be accounted for as separate liability and equity components in a manner that reflects our non-convertible debt borrowing rate. This accounting results in the debt component being treated as though it was issued at a discount, with the debt discount being amortized as additional non-cash interest expense over the debt instrument term using the effective interest method. As a result, we believe that excluding this non-cash interest expense attributable to the debt discount in calculating our non-GAAP net income (loss) is useful because this interest expense is not indicative of our ongoing operational performance. 25 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to non-GAAP net income (loss): Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Change Net loss $ (4,326 ) $ (7,068 ) $ 2,742 Adjustments: Depreciation 1,168 1,155 13 Stock-based compensation 5,221 3,477 1,744 Amortization of debt discount 854 854 Non-GAAP net income (loss) $ 2,917 $ (2,436 ) $ 5,353 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2020, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $119.2 million, comprising cash deposits held at major financial institutions and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including U.S. government agencies, treasury bills, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper and money market funds. We had working capital of $161.3 million as of March 31, 2020. Historically, we have funded our operations primarily through cash generated from operations, issuing equity securities, convertible-debt offerings and/or borrowing under our prior senior credit facility. In 2020, our principal use of cash is funding operations to capture our market opportunity and capital expenditures. We believe, based on our current operating plan, that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Sources of Funds From time to time, we may explore additional financing sources and means to lower our cost of capital, which could include equity, equity-linked and debt financing. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions, we may pursue additional funding which may be in the form of additional debt, equity or equity-linked financing or a combination thereof. We can provide no assurance that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. 2019 Notes In December 2019, we issued the 2019 Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $86.3 million. The 2019 Notes are our senior unsecured obligations. The 2019 Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.00% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2020. The 2019 Notes will be convertible into cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, at our election. The 2019 Notes will mature on December 15, 2026, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed, or converted in accordance with the terms of the indenture for the 2019 Notes. The net proceeds from issuing the 2019 Notes were approximately $83.5 million after deducting fees and expenses. We used the net proceeds from issuing the 2019 Notes to pay the cost of the capped call transactions and repay our senior credit facility. We intend to use the remainder of the net proceeds for general corporate purposes. For further information on the terms of this debt, please refer to Notes 6 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Cash Flows The following table presents selected cash flow data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 1,845 $ (731 ) Net cash provided by investing activities 13,063 417 Net cash provided by financing activities 1,916 1,445 26 Table of Contents Operating Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we generated $1.8 million of net cash from operating activities. These net cash proceeds were primarily driven by $2.9 million proceeds from net loss adjusted for non-cash items, partially offset by $1.1 million working capital usage primarily due to lower cash collection from accounts receivable due to timing and inventory related to the excess and obsolescence charges described above. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , we used $731,000 of net cash from operating activities. This cash usage was primarily driven by $2.6 million proceeds from net loss adjusted for non-cash items, partially offset by $1.9 million of working capital contribution primarily due to lower cash usage in inventory purchases, partially offset by higher cash usage in accrued compensation and employee-related benefits for our 2018 cash bonus payments. Investing Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we generated $13.1 million of net cash from investing activities. These net cash proceeds were primarily driven by investment maturities of $14.2 million, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $1.1 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , we generated $417,000 of net cash from investing activities. These net cash proceeds were driven by investment maturities of $22.9 million, partially offset by investment purchases of $22.2 million. Financing Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we generated $1.9 million of net cash from financing activities. These net cash proceeds primarily comprised $2.0 million from exercised stock options and our employee stock purchase plan. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , we generated $1.4 million of net cash from financing activities. These net cash proceeds primarily comprised $1.8 million from exercised stock options and our employee stock purchase plan. Contractual Obligations The following table reflects a summary of our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2020: Payments Due By Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years (in thousands) Convertible senior notes (1) $ 98,325 $ 1,725 $ 3,450 $ 3,450 $ 89,700 Operating lease obligations Operating lease obligations 26,218 4,790 9,138 6,391 5,900 Sublease income (4,029 ) (1,383 ) (2,646 ) Net operating lease commitments 22,189 3,407 6,492 6,391 5,900 Purchase commitments (2) 12,009 11,850 159 Total $ 132,523 $ 16,982 $ 10,101 $ 9,841 $ 95,600 (1) Convertible senior notes include $12.1 million of interest payments. (2) Purchase commitments consist primarily of non-cancelable commitments to purchase $10.5 million of inventory as of March 31, 2020, as well as non-cancelable software license agreements with vendors. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Since inception, we have not had any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for another contractually narrow or limited purpose. 27 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates We have prepared our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Our preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions. For information on our critical accounting policies and estimates, see Part II, Item 7 (Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 .