Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements containing words such as may, believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, project, projections, business outlook, estimate, or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition or state other forward-looking information. These statements relate to our future plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. They include, but are not limited to, statements about: our market opportunity; the adoption of RAIN technology and solutions; our ability to compete effectively against competitors and competing technologies; our market share and product leadership; and our business model, strategic plans and product-development plans; the impact of Covid-19, including on our business, operations and financial condition as well as on macroeconomic conditions; our future financial performance, including our average selling prices ("ASPs"), gross margins and the dependency of our future financial performance on macroeconomic conditions; the performance of third parties on which we rely for product development, manufacturing, assembly and testing; and our relationship with other third parties on which we rely for product distribution, sales, integration and deployment; our ability to adequately protect our intellectual property; the regulatory environment for our products and services; and our leadership in industry and standards-setting bodies. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, including those factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors). Considering the significant uncertainties and risks inherent in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or anyone else that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all, or as predictions of future events. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Our Business Our vision is a boundless Internet of Things, in which every physical item that businesses manufacture, transport and sell, and that people own, use and recycle, is wirelessly connected to a digital counterpart a digital twin in the cloud. Our mission is to connect every thing. We design and sell a platform that enables that wireless item-to-cloud connectivity and with which we and our partners innovate Internet of Things, or IoT, solutions. Today, our platform connects tens of billions of everyday physical items. That connectivity helps businesses discover, engage and protect those items from manufacturing through point-of-sale. It improves efficiencies for retailers, supply chain and logistics (SC&L) providers, airlines, automobile manufacturers, healthcare companies and more. We believe the IoT we are driving will, in the future, provide business and people ubiquitous access to digital twins of every item, each storing the items history and current owner, and helping people explore and learn about the item. We envision broadening our platforms reach from billions of items to trillions, and extending that item connectivity to consumer use and end-of-life recycling, thereby allowing not just businesses, but also people, to derive value from their connected items. We believe that that connectivity will transform the world. Our platform comprises endpoint ICs, systems and our partner ecosystem. Our endpoint ICs are miniature radio integrated circuits, or ICs, that store a serialized number an identifier that wirelessly identifies the item to which the IC is attached. Our partners embed an endpoint IC into an item or its packaging. Our systems, which comprise reader ICs, readers, gateways, software and cloud services, discover the item, which includes reading the items identifier. They may then engage the item, for example by reading additional information that may be stored on the endpoint IC. They may also protect the item or the consumer, for example by authenticating the item as genuine or rendering the endpoint IC unresponsive without the system first providing a password. Our partner ecosystem comprises original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, service bureaus, original device manufacturers, or ODMs, systems integrators, or SIs, value-added resellers, or VARs, independent software vendors, or ISVs, and other solution partners. We sell our products, either individually or as a whole platform offering, primarily with or through our partner ecosystem. Our platform uses a type of radio-frequency identification, or RFID, technology known as RAIN. We spearheaded developing the RAIN radio standard, lobbied governments to allocate spectrum and cofounded the RAIN industry alliance that today has more than 150 member companies. We believe RAINs capabilities endpoint ICs with serialized item identifiers, battery-free operation, 20 Table of Contents 30-foot range, not line-of-sight readability, up to 1,000 reads per second, essentially unlimited life and available cryptographic authentication, all at a cost of pennies per item position RAIN to be the leading item-to-cloud connectivity technology for the IoT. We engineer our platform to deliver capabilities and performance that surpasses mix-and-match solutions built from competitor products. We believe our platform success derives primarily from the visibility we give end users to items they manufacture, transport and sell. Factors Affecting Our Performance Inventory Supply From time to time, we experience inventory overages or shortages, either due to us misestimating customer or end-user demand; insufficient manufacturing capacity or product availability; market fluctuations; competitive product availability; macroeconomic fluctuations; changes in regulations or tariffs; or for a host of other reasons. These inventory dynamics can impact some or all of our products. High inventory levels can increase expenses, cause product obsolescence and/or increase reserves, negatively affecting our business. Low inventory levels can cause lengthened lead times, missed opportunities, market-share loss and/or damaged customer relationships, also negatively affecting our business. For example, in 2021 and 2022 we experienced IC wafer shortages relative to our needs because of high worldwide demand for foundry capacity. These shortages prevented us from fully meeting customer demand and, in some cases, caused customers to cancel orders, qualify alternative suppliers or purchase from our competitors. In 2020, during the Covid-19 economic downturn, we built endpoint IC inventory. Beginning in fourth-quarter 2020, demand for our endpoint ICs increased dramatically. Worldwide wafer demand also increased dramatically, leading to wafer shortfalls in many industries, including ours. In 2021, we moderated our sales and inventory burndown, stretching our IC supply but constraining our ability to fully capitalize on the increasing endpoint IC demand, while we also expanded and matured our post-processing capacity. In 2022, wafer shortfalls in our process nodes continued, preventing us from fully capitalizing on our demand in every quarter of 2022. Although we did receive wafer upsides from our foundry partner that supported sequential increases in endpoint IC revenue each quarter, demand exceeded supply throughout the year. And because many of those upside wafers were 200mm rather than 300mm, we transitioned some customers back from our 300mm M700 family to our prior-generation 200mm Monza R6 product family, despite M700 being our primary market demand. In fourth-quarter 2022, our foundry partner signaled improving wafer supply. As of March 31, 2023, we expect to build a sustainable level of endpoint IC finished goods for 200mm inventory by second quarter of 2023 but anticipate it will take until at least the second half of 2023 to build a sustainable level of 300mm endpoint IC finished goods. Sustainable inventory levels will take into account our booked and forecasted demand, inventory needed to support key accounts, our expectations regarding future supply availability, and the salability of our inventory in the future. Throughout 2022 we were also unable to obtain enough reader components to meet reader market demand. Although component availability is starting to improve, some components remain stubbornly tight, and we expect that tightness to persist at least into mid-2023. In 2022 we saw cost increases for our endpoint IC wafers and for all systems products, which caused us to raise prices and potentially negatively impact our market competitiveness. Overall, the supply, packaging and test shortfalls, as well as cost increases, may decrease sales and cause market-share losses if our partners and end users buy competing products over ours, or choose to not deploy at all, negatively impacting our operating results and prospects. Investing for Growth We have invested in, and plan to continue investing in, research and development to enhance and extend our platform, including enhancing existing products, introducing new products and advancing the unique capabilities and features our platform enables. Although we sell our products into many end markets, relying significantly on our partner channel, we are today focusing particular attention on retail self-checkout and loss prevention and SC&L package tracking. Most of our investments precede any sales benefits from the investments and, in some instances, we may never see any benefit if the market is not receptive to our approach, our product development is late or fails, or for other reasons. We sometimes enter into arrangements with end users, suppliers or partners for them to fund part of our investment, but even in those instances the investment results remain uncertain, and in some cases we may be required to refund the investment if the development is unsuccessful or the market opportunity fails to materialize. In some instances, we delay or cancel investments without or until we obtain such funding. The outcome of an investment is almost always uncertain, and if our results do not meet expectations then our operating results, profitability and stock price may be adversely affected. While our long-term plan to invest for growth remains unchanged, Covid-19 and a weaker global economy have introduced new uncertainty to our business. We will continue to monitor the impacts of both on our supply chain, market and opportunities and adjust our investment strategy as appropriate. 21 Table of Contents Market Adoption Our financial performance depends on the pace and scope of end-user adoption of our products in multiple industries, especially in retail apparel, which is our largest market. Covid-19 had a materially adverse impact on the retail industry, initially by shifting consumer shopping away from physical stores, then causing post-Covid supply shortfalls and retailer over-ordering and, in late 2022 and early 2023, inventory corrections at many retailers. Despite these retail macro trends, for the most part retail demand for our products exceeded our supply throughout 2022. Covid-19 also impacted other markets that use RAIN. For example, aviation, which had proposed widespread luggage tagging, saw delayed adoption. By contrast, SC&L experienced markedly increased shipment volumes which positively impacted adoption. Given the uncertainties in our market and product supply, the negative impacts of our insufficient 2022 supply and end user perceptions of the risks associated with insufficient supply, we cannot be certain that RAIN adoption will continue; that we will have appropriate product inventory; that we will not experience future product inventory shortfalls or overages; or that Covid-19 and a weaker global economy will not materially impact our business going forward. We also cannot be certain we will be able to maintain or grow our market share for any of our products, whether because of insufficient inventory, Covid-19, competitors copying our products, insufficient wafer or other product supply, competition generally or for a host of other reasons, many of which are outside our control. Regardless of the uneven pace of retail, SC&L and other industry adoption, we believe the underlying, long-term trend is continued RAIN adoption and we continue investing in new products. In our endpoint IC business, in 2020 we introduced the Impinj M700 family, with significant performance advantages over other endpoint ICs on the market. We continue expanding the M700 family, for example with the introduction of our large memory industrial ICs, the M780 and M781, in November 2022 and with the introduction of our cryptographic authentication IC, the M775, along with a cloud-based authentication service, in September 2022. In our systems business, in 2020 we introduced the Impinj R700 reader and in 2021 our Impinj E-family reader ICs, both of which likewise offer significant performance advantages over other readers and reader ICs on the market and for which we continue expanding the product families. Regardless, market adoption could be impacted by product availabilitysee the discussion of product availability under Inventory Supply. We sell our products primarily through partners and distributors and therefore have limited visibility to end-user demand. Consequently, we may incorrectly forecast that demand or not identify market shifts in a timely manner, potentially adversely affecting our business. If RAIN market adoption, and adoption of our products specifically, does not meet our expectations, or if we are unable to meet partner or end-user volume or performance expectations, because of the impact of Covid-19, supply-chain disruption, macroeconomic conditions or otherwise, then our operating results and growth prospects will be adversely affected. If we reduce prices to win opportunities, then our gross margins may be negatively affected. In contrast, if our endpoint IC, reader IC, reader or gateway sales exceed expectations, then our revenue and profitability may be positively affected. Timing and Complexity of End User Deployments From 2010 to 2022, our endpoint IC sales volumes increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 26%. However, the pace has been uneven and unpredictable. For example, our endpoint IC unit sales volumes increased significantly in 2016, declined in second-half 2017 and in first-half 2018, returned to growth in second-half 2018 and in 2019 (the latter albeit not at the same pace as in 2016), declined again in second- and third-quarter 2020 due to Covid-19, and recovered in fourth-quarter 2020, in 2021 and in 2022. We expect short-term demand to remain unpredictable in scope and timing. Longer term, we believe our endpoint IC opportunity will continue to grow, but we cannot predict whether historical annual growth rates are indicative of the pace of future growth. Our systems business, at least for our readers and gateways, is impacted by large-scale deployments at discrete end users. The timing of those large deployments causes large variability in our systems revenue. For example, we generated 14% of total 2019 revenue from a large North American SC&L provider in connection with a project-based gateway deployment. We did not have comparable new project-based revenue in 2020. As another example, in second-quarter 2021, we generated 13% of our quarterly revenue from a project-based gateway deployment for RAIN-based self-checkout and loss prevention at a large European-based global retailer. Finally, although we promote our platform as an integrated offering, we sell our products individually, and end users often use only certain of our products. For any given end-user solution, whether an end user chooses to deploy our entire platform or only a portion will also affect our operating results. Average Selling Price 22 Table of Contents Our product ASPs fluctuate based on competitive pressures and the discounting we offer to win opportunities, but generally decline over time. Historically, we have been able to compensate these ASP declines by reducing the per-unit cost of most of our products, by reducing supplier costs and implementing manufacturing and quality improvements, as well as by introducing newer and lower-cost products, but the timing of these cost reductions and new-product introductions fluctuates and may not materialize in any given quarter or year. In second-half 2021, due to wafer and component supply shortfalls at many of our suppliers, we began experiencing increasing rather than decreasing costs for both endpoint ICs and systems. In 2022 and the first-quarter of 2023, we raised prices to offset the impact of those increased costs. Many of our vendors and subcontractors have signaled future price increases, including our wafer foundry partner. Such increases, if or when they occur, could cause us to pass the higher costs to our customers. If we are unable to successfully increase our prices or if our customers choose competitors products due to our higher prices, then our product margins, operating results or both may suffer. In the near term, we expect product margins to be volatile based on product mix and the timing of our price changes. Seasonality We typically renegotiate pricing with most of our endpoint IC OEMs with an effective date of the first quarter of the calendar year, reducing revenue and gross margins in the first quarter compared to prior periods. Historically, the impact tends to decline in subsequent quarters as we reduce costs and, to the extent we can migrate our partners and end users to newer, lower-cost products, adjust product mix. Endpoint IC volumes also tend to be historically lower in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter. We did not see these historical trends in 2022 and may not see them in 2023. System sales tend to be stronger in the fourth quarter of the calendar year, and less strong in the first quarter. We believe this seasonality is due to the availability of residual funding for capital expenditures prior to the end of many end users fiscal years. Like for our endpoint ICs, we did not see these historical trends in 2022. While, over the long term, we expect these seasonal trends to continue, quarter-to-quarter revenue variability from factors including supply uncertainty, deployment timing, competitor products and supply-chain disruptions can all mask seasonality in any given period. These variabilities, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the impacts of Covid-19, can cause our actual results to differ significantly from our expectations, as described in greater detail in the sections of this report captioned Covid-19 and in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors). Covid-19 We are actively monitoring and mitigating the impacts of Covid-19 in all aspects of our business, including for our employees, suppliers, partners and end users. In 2021 and 2022, as the worldwide economy began recovering from the downturn caused by Covid-19, demand for all our products increased. Unfortunately, at the same time, we experienced supply constraints and higher costs that limited our ability to fully capitalize on the increased demand, as discussed above. Given the ongoing uncertainty over Covid-19s epidemiological, economic and operational impacts we cannot reasonably estimate the extent or duration of Covid-19s continuing impact on our business. The extent to which Covid-19 impacts our future results will depend on developments that are inherently unpredictable, including the emergence of new Covid-19 variants and actions we and others take in response to Covid-19. For more information on Covid-19s impact on our business, please refer to Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this report. Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2023 2022 Change Revenue $ 85,897 $ 53,144 $ 32,753 Gross profit $ 43,530 $ 28,779 $ 14,751 Gross margin 50.7 % 54.2 % (3.5 )% Loss from operations $ (4,442 ) $ (9,315 ) $ 4,873 23 Table of Contents Three months ended March 31, 2023 compared with three months ended March 31, 2022 Revenue and gross profit increased, due primarily to higher endpoint IC and systems revenue. The endpoint IC revenue increase was driven primarily by higher shipment volumes when compared to the prior year period. Gross margin decreased, due primarily to decreased product margins offset by leverage on indirect costs. The decreased product margins were driven primarily by endpoint IC margins due to product mix. Loss from operations decreased, due primarily to increased gross profit offset by increased operating expenses. The operating-expense increase was due primarily to higher research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative personnel costs as well as increased professional services within general and administrative costs. Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Change Endpoint ICs $ 67,049 $ 38,795 $ 28,254 Systems 18,848 14,349 4,499 Total revenue $ 85,897 $ 53,144 $ 32,753 We currently derive substantially all our revenue from sales of endpoint ICs, reader ICs, readers and gateways. We sell our endpoint ICs primarily to inlay manufacturers; our reader ICs primarily to OEMs and ODMs through distributors; and our readers and gateways to solutions providers, value-added resellers ("VARs") and system integrators ("SIs"), also primarily through distributors. We expect endpoint IC sales to represent the majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Three months ended March 31, 2023 compared with three months ended March 31, 2022 Endpoint IC revenue increased $28.3 million due primarily to a $31.5 million increase from higher shipment volumes partially offset by a $3.2 million decrease from ASPs. The ASP decrease was due primarily to product mix caused by lower contribution from industrial and specialty ICs. Systems revenue increased $4.5 million, due primarily to increases of $4.6 million in gateway revenue and $2.4 million in reader IC revenue offset by a decrease of $2.5 million in reader revenue. The increased gateway and reader IC revenue was due to increased shipment volumes. The decreased reader revenue was due to decreased shipment volumes offset by higher ASPs. For more information, see the sections captioned Factors Affecting Our PerformanceInventory Supply and Shortages of silicon wafers and components used in our readers and gateways may adversely affect our ability to meet demand for our products and adversely affect our revenue and/or gross margins. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2023 2022 Change Cost of revenue $ 42,367 $ 24,365 $ 18,002 Gross profit $ 43,530 $ 28,779 $ 14,751 Gross margin 50.7 % 54.2 % (3.5 )% Cost of revenue includes costs associated with manufacturing our endpoint ICs, reader ICs, readers and gateways, including direct materials and outsourced manufacturing costs as well as associated overhead costs such as logistics, quality control, planning and procurement. Cost of revenue also includes charges for excess and obsolescence and warranty costs. Our gross margin varies from period to period based on mix of endpoint IC and systems, underlying product margins driven by changes in ASPs or costs, as well as from inventory excess and obsolescence charges. Three months ended March 31, 2023 compared with three months ended March 31, 2022 Gross profit increased, due primarily to increased endpoint IC and systems revenue. Gross margin decreased, due primarily to decreased product margins offset by current-year leverage on indirect costs. The product-margin decrease was due primarily to endpoint IC margins from lower revenue contribution from industrial and specialty ICs as well as mix within industrial and specialty ICs. 24 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Change Research and development $ 22,435 $ 17,989 $ 4,446 Research and development expense comprises primarily personnel expenses (salaries, benefits and other employee related costs) and stock-based compensation expense for our product-development personnel; product development costs which include external consulting and service costs, prototype materials and other new-product development costs; and an allocated portion of infrastructure costs which include occupancy, depreciation and software costs. We expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars in future periods as we focus on new product development and introductions. Three months ended March 31, 2023 compared with three months ended March 31, 2022 Research and development expense increased $4.4 million, due primarily to increases of $3.2 million in personnel expenses from higher headcount, the change in bonus payment structure from 50% cash and 50% PSUs to 100% cash and $945,000 in product development costs. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Change Sales and marketing $ 9,973 $ 9,299 $ 674 Sales and marketing expense comprises primarily personnel expenses (salaries, incentive sales compensation, or commission, benefits and other employee-related costs) and stock-based compensation expense for our sales and marketing personnel; travel, advertising and promotional expenses; and an allocated portion of infrastructure costs which include occupancy, depreciation and software costs. Three months ended March 31, 2023 compared with three months ended March 31, 2022 Sales and marketing expense increased $674,000, due primarily to increases of $1.1 million in personnel expenses from higher headcount and the change in bonus payment structure from 50% cash and 50% PSUs to 100% cash offset by a decrease of $613,000 in stock-based compensation expense due primarily to a decrease in outstanding awards. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Change General and administrative $ 15,564 $ 10,806 $ 4,758 General and administrative expense comprises primarily personnel expenses (salaries, benefits and other employee related costs) and stock-based compensation expense for our executive, finance, human resources and information technology personnel; legal, accounting and other professional service fees; travel and insurance expense; and an allocated portion of infrastructure costs which include occupancy, depreciation and software costs. Three months ended March 31, 2023 compared with three months ended March 31, 2022 General and administrative expense increased $4.8 million, due primarily to increases of $3.3 million in professional services due primarily to increased legal expenses as well as transaction expenses for the acquisition detailed in Note 11, Subsequent Events. Other factors included $1.5 million in personnel expenses from higher headcount and the change in bonus payment structure from 50% cash and 50% PSUs to 100% cash. Other Income, net Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Change Other income, net $ 1,365 $ 164 $ 1,201 Other income, net comprises primarily interest income on our short-term investments. 25 Table of Contents Three months ended March 31, 2023 compared with three months ended March 31, 2022 Other income, net increased from the prior periods due to an increase in interest rates. Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Change Interest expense $ 1,209 $ 1,261 $ (52 ) Interest expense comprises primarily cash interest and amortization of debt issuance costs on our debt.r re Three months ended March 31, 2023 compared with three months ended March 31, 2022 Interest expense decreased $52,000, due to the repayment of the 2019 Notes in June 2022. Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Change Income tax expense $ 72 $ 49 $ 23 We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Income tax expense remained comparable to the prior period. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Our key non-GAAP performance measures include adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income (loss), as defined below. We use adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income (loss) as key measures to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operating plans. We believe these measures provide useful information for period-to-period comparisons of our business to allow investors and others to understand and evaluate our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Our presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from similarly termed non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP, excluding, if applicable for the periods presented, the effects of stock-based compensation; depreciation; restructuring costs; settlement and related costs; induced conversion expense; other income, net; interest expense; loss on debt extinguishment; income tax benefit (expense); and acquisition transaction expense. During the first quarter of 2023, we revised our definition of adjusted EBITDA to exclude acquisition transaction expenses in connection with our Voyantic Oy acquisition. We have excluded these costs and expenses because we do not believe they reflect our core operations and us excluding them enables more consistent evaluation of our operating performance. The revision to our definition of adjusted EBITDA did not impact adjusted EBITDA for any previously reported periods because there was no impact of a similar nature in such prior periods affecting comparability. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Change Net loss $ (4,358 ) $ (10,461 ) $ 6,103 Adjustments: Other income, net (1,365 ) (164 ) (1,201 ) Interest expense 1,209 1,261 (52 ) Income tax expense 72 49 23 Depreciation 1,793 1,508 285 Stock-based compensation 10,224 11,314 (1,090 ) Acquisition transaction expense 1,042 1,042 Adjusted EBITDA $ 8,617 $ 3,507 $ 5,110 26 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss) We define non-GAAP net income (loss) as net income (loss), excluding, if applicable for the periods presented, the effects of stock-based compensation; depreciation; restructuring costs; settlement and related costs; induced conversion expense; amortization of debt discount related to the equity component of our convertible notes; prepayment penalty on debt extinguishment; and acquisition transaction expense. During the first quarter of 2023, we revised our definition of non-GAAP net income (loss) to exclude acquisition transaction expenses in connection with our Voyantic Oy acquisition. The revision to our definition of non-GAAP net income (loss) did not impact adjusted EBITDA for any previously reported periods because there was no impact of a similar nature in such prior periods affecting comparability. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to non-GAAP net income (loss): Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Change Net loss $ (4,358 ) $ (10,461 ) $ 6,103 Adjustments: Depreciation 1,793 1,508 285 Stock-based compensation 10,224 11,314 (1,090 ) Acquisition transaction expense 1,042 1,042 Non-GAAP net income $ 8,701 $ 2,361 $ 6,340 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $154.5 million, comprising cash deposits held at major financial institutions and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including U.S. government securities, treasury bills, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, asset-backed securities and money market funds. As of March 31, 2023, we had working capital of $250.6 million. Historically, we have funded our operations primarily through cash generated from operations and by issuing equity securities, convertible-debt offerings and/or borrowing under our prior senior credit facility. In 2023, our principal uses of cash were funding operations to capture our market opportunity and capital expenditures. We believe, based on our current operating plan, that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Over the longer term, we plan to continue investing to enhance and extend our platform. If our available funds are insufficient to fund our future activities or execute our strategy, then we may raise additional capital through equity, equity-linked or debt financing, to the extent such funding sources are available. Alternatively, we may need to reduce expenses to manage liquidity; however, any such reductions could adversely impact our business and competitive position. Sources of Funds From time to time, we may explore additional financing sources and ways to reduce our cost of capital, including equity, equity-linked and debt financing. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions, we may pursue additional financing which may be debt, equity or equity-linked financing or a combination thereof. We can provide no assurance that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. 2021 Notes In November 2021, we issued the 2021 Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $287.5 million. The 2021 Notes are our senior unsecured obligation, bearing interest at a fixed rate of 1.125% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year, beginning on May 15, 2022. The 2021 Notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, at our election, and will mature on May 15, 2027 unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted in accordance with the indenture terms. The net proceeds from the 2021 Notes were approximately $278.4 million after initial debt issuance costs, fees and expenses. We used approximately $183.6 million of the net proceeds to repurchase approximately $76.4 million aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes through individual privately negotiated transactions concurrent with the 2021 Notes offering. We used $17.6 million to repurchase the remaining $9.85 million aggregate principal of the 2019 Notes through individual privately negotiated transactions in June 2022. We will use the rest of the net proceeds for general corporate purposes. For further information on the terms of this debt, please refer to Note 6 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 27 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (26,560 ) $ (14,836 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 39,926 (50,135 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 4,520 4,611 Operating Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we used $26.6 million of net cash from operating activities. These net cash usages were due primarily to $33.9 million in working capital due primarily to higher inventory and accounts receivable offset by higher accounts payable and $7.3 million of net loss adjusted for non-cash items. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we used $14.8 million of net cash from operating activities. These net cash usages were due primarily to $17.9 million in working capital usage due primarily to higher inventory, accounts receivable, accounts payable and $3 million of net loss adjusted for non-cash items. Investing Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we generated $39.9 million of net cash from investing activities. The net cash proceeds were due primarily to investment maturities of $34.1 million and investment sales of $13.4 million, respectively, partially offset by net property and equipment purchases of $7.6 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we used $50.1 million of net cash from investing activities. The net cash usage was due primarily to investment and property and equipment purchases of $67.1 million and $3.1 million, respectively, partially offset by investment maturities of $20.0 million. Financing Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we generated $4.5 million of net cash from financing activities. These net cash proceeds were due primarily to $4.5 million from stock-option exercises and our employee stock purchase plan. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we generated $4.6 million of net cash from financing activities. These net cash proceeds were due primarily to $4.6 million from stock-option exercises and our employee stock purchase plan. Cash Requirements and Contractual Obligations Our primary cash requirements are for operating expenses and capital expenditures. Our operating expenses have generally increased as we invest in sales and marketing and in developing products and technologies that we believe have the potential to drive long-term business growth. Convertible Notes As of March 31, 2023 the principal balance outstanding on the 2021 Notes is $287.5 million. Refer to Note 6 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for maturity date, stated interest rate and additional information on our 2021 Notes. Operating Lease Obligations Our lease portfolio comprises primarily operating leases for our office space. For additional information regarding our operating leases, see Note 10 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 . Purchase Commitments Purchase commitments as of March 31, 2023 total $67.4 million and consist primarily of non-cancelable commitments to purchase $56.0 million of inventory. Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements Since inception, we have not had any relationships with unconsolidated entities, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special-purpose entities, or financial partnerships that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance-sheet arrangements or for another contractually narrow or limited purpose. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates We have prepared our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Our preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, 28 Table of Contents expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions. For information on our critical accounting policies and estimates, see Part II, Item 7 (Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022.