Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements containing words such as may, believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, project, projections, business outlook, estimate, or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition or state other forward-looking information. These statements relate to our future plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. They include, but are not limited to, statements about: our market opportunity; the adoption of RAIN technology and solutions; our ability to compete effectively against competitors and competing technologies; our market share and product leadership; our business model, strategic plans and product-development plans; the impact of tariffs, trade measures and other macroeconomic conditions; our future financial performance, including our average selling prices, or ASPs, gross margins and the dependency of our future financial performance on macroeconomic conditions or industry trends, including tariffs; the performance of third parties on which we rely for product development, manufacturing, assembly and testing; and our relationship with other third parties on which we rely for product distribution, sales, integration and deployment; our ability to adequately protect our intellectual property; the regulatory environment for our products and services; and our leadership in industry and standards-setting bodies. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, including those factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors). Considering the significant uncertainties and risks inherent in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or anyone else that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all, or as predictions of future events. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Our Business Our vision is a world in which every item that enterprises manufacture, transport and sell, and that people own, use and recycle, is wirelessly and ubiquitously connected to the cloud. And a world in which the ownership, history and linked information for every one of those items is seamlessly available to enterprises and people. We call our expansive vision a Boundless Internet of Things, or IoT. We design and sell a platform that enables that wireless item-to-cloud connectivity and with which we and our partners innovate IoT solutions. Our mission is to connect every thing. We have enabled connectivity for more than 120 billion items to date, delivering item visibility and improving operational efficiencies for retailers, supply chain and logistics, or SC&L providers, restaurants and food-service providers, airlines, automobile manufacturers, healthcare companies and many more. We are today focused on extending item connectivity from tens of billions to trillions of items, and delivering item data not just to enterprises but to people, so they too can derive value from their connected items. We believe the Boundless IoT we are enabling will, in the not-too-distant future, give people ubiquitous access to cloud-based digital twins of every item, each storing the items history and linked information and helping people explore and learn about the item. We believe that that connectivity will transform the world. We and our partner ecosystem build item-visibility solutions using products that we design and either sell or license, including silicon RAIN radios; manufacturing, test, encoding and reading systems; software and cloud services that encapsulate our solutions know-how; and intellectual property. We sell two types of silicon integrated circuit, or IC, radios. The first are endpoint ICs that store a serialized number to wirelessly identify an item. Our partners embed endpoint ICs into an item or its packaging. The ICs may also contain a cryptographic key to authenticate the item. The second are reader ICs that our partners use in finished readers to wirelessly discover, inventory and engage the endpoint ICs. Those readers may also protect an item or consumer, for example by authenticating 18 Table of Contents the item as genuine or privatizing the item by rendering the endpoint IC unresponsive without the consumer first providing a password. Our manufacturing, test and encoding systems enable partner products and facilitate enterprise deployments. Our reading systems comprise high-performance finished readers and gateways for autonomous reading solutions. Our software and cloud services focus on solutions enablement. We sell our products, individually or as a whole platform offering primarily with or through our partner ecosystem. That ecosystem comprises original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, tag service bureaus, original device manufacturers, or ODMs, systems integrators, or SIs, value-added resellers, or VARs, independent software vendors, or ISVs, and other solution partners. Our radios follow the RAIN industrys air-interface standard for their core reading functionality. We create partner and enterprise preference for our radios and solutions by adding differentiated features into them, supporting those features across our platform and licensing them where appropriate, to deliver solutions capabilities and performance that surpasses mix-and-match solutions built from competitor products. We have also introduced a set of compatible extensions to the RAIN industrys air-interface standard, which we call Gen2X, that enhance the performance and protection of our solutions. The RAIN industry, on the reader and solutions side, has broadly embraced Gen2X. Factors Affecting Our Performance Macroeconomic Factors We are subject to impacts from the evolving macroeconomic environment, including uncertainty and volatility in trade measures and tariffs. Because most of our revenue derives from endpoint ICs that our partners embed into or onto items, to the extent that those items are impacted, positively or negatively, by trade measure and tariffs, we are impacted as well. While the impact that recent trade measures will have on our business and financial results is difficult to predict, they could negatively affect our business and financial results. We continue to monitor the broader impacts of these measures on our business, our supply chain and our results of operations. See risk factor "Changes in global trade policies could have a material adverse effect on us." in Part II, Item 1A. of this report for further information. Inventory Supply We sell most of our products, both endpoint ICs and systems, through partners and distributors, limiting our visibility to actual enterprise demand. We work closely with those partners and distributors to gain as accurate a view as possible, however, correctly forecasting demand for our products and identifying market shifts in a timely manner remains a challenge. As a result, we sometimes experience inventory overages or shortages. Inventory overages can increase expenses, expose us to product obsolescence and/or increased reserves and negatively affect our business. Inventory shortages can cause long lead times, missed opportunities, market-share losses and/or damaged customer relationships, also negatively affecting our business. In 2021 and 2022, demand for our endpoint ICs increased while worldwide wafer demand also increased, leading to wafer shortfalls for many semiconductor companies, including us. These wafer shortfalls prevented us from fully meeting customer demand and, in some cases, caused customers to cancel orders, qualify alternative suppliers or purchase from our competitors. In 2023, macroeconomic conditions led to softness in demand and inventory overages. Product Adoption and Unit Growth Rates Enterprises have significantly adopted RAIN in retail apparel, our largest market, and SC&L, but the rate of adoption and unit growth rates have been uneven and unpredictable. From 2010 to 2024, our overall endpoint IC sales volumes increased at a 27% compounded annual growth rate; however, we have experienced declines in endpoint IC sales volumes during various periods. Regardless of the uneven pace of retail, SC&L and other industry adoption and growth rates, we believe the long-term trend is continued RAIN adoption and growth and we intend to continue investing in developing new products and expanding our product offerings for the foreseeable future. However, we cannot predict whether historical annual growth rates are indicative of the pace of future growth. Our systems business, at least for readers and gateways, depends significantly on large-scale deployments at discrete end users, and deployment timing causes large yearly variability in our systems revenue. For example, we generated 14% of total 2019 revenue from a gateway deployment at a large North American SC&L provider. We did not have comparable project-based revenue in 2020. Similarly, in second-quarter 2021, we generated 13% of our revenue from a project-based gateway deployment for RAIN-based self-checkout and loss prevention at a large Europe-based global retailer. While we continue generating project-based revenue, we have not seen it at a comparable scale in 2022 to 2024, or in first-quarter 2025. Seasonality and Pricing We typically negotiate pricing with most of our endpoint IC OEMs with an effective date of the first quarter of the calendar year. In the past, this negotiation typically resulted in reduced revenue and gross margins in the first quarter compared to prior periods, 19 Table of Contents which then normalized in subsequent quarters as we reduced costs and adjust product mix by migrating those OEMs and end users to newer, lower-cost products. Endpoint IC volumes tend to be lower in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter. System sales tend to be higher in the fourth quarter and lower in the first quarter, we believe due to the availability of residual funding for capital expenditures prior to the end of many end users fiscal years. Quarter-to-quarter revenue variability due to macroeconomic conditions and program-launch timing may impact these seasonal trends in the future. In light of the 2025 macroeconomic environment, we are uncertain whether we will see these trends in 2025. Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2025 2024 Change Revenue $ 74,277 $ 76,825 $ (2,548 ) Gross profit $ 36,681 $ 37,548 $ (867 ) Gross margin 49.4 % 48.9 % 0.5 % Loss from operations $ (9,569 ) $ (11,733 ) $ 2,164 Three months ended March 31, 2025 compared with three months ended March 31, 2024 Revenue and gross profit decreased, due primarily to lower systems revenue on lower shipment volumes compared to the prior-year period. Gross margin increased, due primarily to lower indirect costs in the current-year period, partially offset by a decrease in direct product margin. Loss from operations decreased, due primarily to decreased operating expenses, partially offset by decreased gross profit. The operating expense decrease was due to lower sales and marketing costs, restructuring costs, general and administrative costs and amortization of intangibles, partially offset by increased research and development costs. Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Change Endpoint ICs $ 61,218 $ 61,506 $ (288 ) Systems 13,059 15,319 (2,260 ) Total revenue $ 74,277 $ 76,825 $ (2,548 ) We currently derive substantially all our revenue from sales of endpoint ICs, reader ICs, readers, gateways, test and measurement solutions and licensing. We sell our endpoint ICs and test and measurement solutions primarily to inlay manufacturers; our reader ICs primarily to OEMs and ODMs through distributors; and our readers and gateways to solutions providers, VARs and SIs, also primarily through distributors. We expect endpoint IC sales to represent the majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Three months ended March 31, 2025 compared with three months ended March 31, 2024 Endpoint IC revenue decreased $0.3 million, due to a $9.3 million decrease from lower ASP due to product mix and new customer pricing that went into effect at the beginning of the year, offset by a $9.0 million increase in shipment volumes. Systems revenue decreased $2.3 million due primarily to a decrease in shipment volumes. Gateway revenue decreased $2.8 million and test and measurement solution revenue decreased by $1.0 million. These decreases were partially offset by increases of $1.1 million and $0.6 million in reader and reader IC revenue, respectively. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2025 2024 Change Cost of revenue $ 37,596 $ 39,277 $ (1,681 ) Gross profit $ 36,681 $ 37,548 $ (867 ) Gross margin 49.4 % 48.9 % 0.5 % Cost of revenue includes costs associated with manufacturing our endpoint ICs, reader ICs, readers, gateways and test and measurement solutions, including direct materials and outsourced manufacturing costs as well as associated overhead costs such as 20 Table of Contents logistics, quality control, planning and procurement. Cost of revenue also includes charges for excess and obsolescence and warranty costs. Our gross margin varies from period to period based on the mix of endpoint IC and systems; underlying product margins driven by changes in mix, ASPs or costs; as well as from inventory excess and obsolescence charges. Three months ended March 31, 2025 compared with three months ended March 31, 2024 Gross profit decreased, due primarily to decreased systems revenue. Gross margin increased, due primarily to lower indirect costs in the current-year period, partially offset by a decrease in direct product margin, due to mix of endpoint IC and systems as well as product mix within endpoint IC. Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Change Research and development $ 25,314 $ 22,519 $ 2,795 Research and development expense comprises primarily personnel expenses (salaries, benefits and other employee related costs) and stock-based compensation expense for our product-development personnel; product development costs which include external consulting and service costs, prototype materials and other new-product development costs; and an allocated portion of infrastructure costs which include occupancy, depreciation and software costs. We expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars in future periods as we continue to focus on new product development and introductions. Three months ended March 31, 2025 compared with three months ended March 31, 2024 Research and development expense increased $2.8 million, due primarily to increases of $1.8 million in stock-based compensation expense, primarily related to increased outstanding equity grants; $0.6 million in product development costs due to timing; and $0.5 million in infrastructure costs. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Change Sales and marketing $ 8,055 $ 10,176 $ (2,121 ) Sales and marketing expense comprises primarily personnel expenses (salaries, incentive sales compensation, or commission, benefits and other employee-related costs) and stock-based compensation expense for our sales and marketing personnel; travel, advertising and promotional expenses; and an allocated portion of infrastructure costs which include occupancy, depreciation and software costs. Three months ended March 31, 2025 compared with three months ended March 31, 2024 Sales and marketing expense decreased $2.1 million, due primarily to a decrease of $2.1 million in stock-based compensation expense. This decrease is due primarily to forfeitures related to the company's Chief Revenue Officer retiring in the period. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Change General and administrative $ 12,396 $ 13,365 $ (969 ) General and administrative expense comprises primarily personnel expenses (salaries, benefits and other employee related costs) and stock-based compensation expense for our executive, finance, human resources and information technology personnel; legal, accounting and other professional service fees; travel and insurance expense; and an allocated portion of infrastructure costs which include occupancy, depreciation and software costs. Three months ended March 31, 2025 compared with three months ended March 31, 2024 General and administrative expense decreased $1.0 million, due primarily to a decrease of $2.2 million in professional services related to legal fees. This decrease was partially offset by increases of $1.0 million in stock compensation expense related to increased outstanding equity grants. 21 Table of Contents Amortization of Intangibles Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Change Amortization of intangibles $ 485 $ 1,409 $ (924 ) Three months ended March 31, 2025 compared with three months ended March 31, 2024 Amortization of intangibles decreased $0.9 million. The decrease relates to the intangibles acquired as part of our April 3, 2023 acquisition of Voyantic Oy. Certain intangible assets acquired had a useful life of less than 1 year, resulting in a higher amortization expense in the prior-year period. Restructuring Costs Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Change Restructuring costs $ $ 1,812 $ (1,812 ) Three months ended March 31, 2025 compared with three months ended March 31, 2024 The decrease in restructuring costs relates to the restructuring we initiated on February 7, 2024. There were no restructuring costs for the three months ended March 31, 2025. See note 11 Restructuring for further information. Other Income, net Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Change Other income, net $ 2,060 $ 1,292 $ 768 Other income, net, comprises primarily interest income on our short-term investments. Three months ended March 31, 2025 compared with three months ended March 31, 2024 Other income, net, increased from the prior period due to increased interest income given higher invested balances and higher interest rates. Income From Settlement of Litigation Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Change Income from settlement of litigation $ $ 45,000 $ (45,000 ) Three months ended March 31, 2025 compared with three months ended March 31, 2024 The decrease in income from settlement of litigation is related to the litigation settlement we reached with NXP on March 13, 2024. There was no income from litigation for the three months ended March 31, 2025. See note 6 Commitments and Contingencies for further information. Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Change Interest expense $ 1,223 $ 1,216 $ 7 Interest expense comprises primarily cash interest and amortization of debt issuance costs on our debt. Three months ended March 31, 2025 compared with three months ended March 31, 2024 Interest expense was comparable for the periods. 22 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Change Income tax benefit $ (281 ) $ (1 ) $ (280 ) We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Income tax benefit increased $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the prior-year period due to changes in income (loss). Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2025, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $147.9 million, comprising cash deposits held at major financial institutions and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including U.S. government securities, treasury bills, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper and money market funds. As of March 31, 2025, we had working capital of $280.4 million. Historically, we have funded our operations primarily through cash generated from operations and by issuing equity securities, convertible-debt offerings and/or borrowing under our prior senior credit facility. We believe, based on our current operating plan, that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Over the longer term, we plan to continue investing to enhance and extend our platform. If our available funds are insufficient to fund our future activities or execute our strategy, then we may raise additional capital through equity, equity-linked or debt financing, to the extent such funding sources are available. Alternatively, we may need to reduce expenses to manage liquidity; however, any such reductions could adversely impact our business and competitive position. Sources of Funds From time to time, we may explore additional financing sources and ways to reduce our cost of capital, including equity, equity-linked and debt financing. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions, we may pursue additional financing which may be debt, equity or equity-linked financing or a combination thereof. We can provide no assurance that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. 2021 Notes In November 2021, we issued convertible notes due 2027 in an aggregate principal amount of $287.5 million which we refer to as the 2021 Notes. The 2021 Notes are our senior unsecured obligation, bearing interest at a fixed rate of 1.125% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year, beginning on May 15, 2022. The 2021 Notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, at our election, and will mature on May 15, 2027 unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted in accordance with the indenture terms. The net proceeds from the 2021 Notes were approximately $278.4 million after initial debt issuance costs, fees and expenses. We used approximately $183.6 million of the net proceeds to repurchase approximately $76.4 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2026, or the 2019 Notes, through individual privately negotiated transactions concurrent with the 2021 Notes offering. We used $17.6 million to repurchase the remaining $9.85 million aggregate principal of the 2019 Notes through individual privately negotiated transactions in June 2022. We will use the rest of the net proceeds for general corporate purposes. For further information on the terms of this debt, please refer to Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Cash Flows The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (11,143 ) $ 60,140 Net cash provided by investing activities 21,227 5,046 Net cash provided by financing activities 5,060 6,917 23 Table of Contents Operating Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we used $11.1 million of net cash in operating activities. This net cash usage was due primarily to $18.5 million in working capital due primarily to lower accrued compensation and accounts payable. The usage was partially offset by $7.3 million of net income adjusted for non-cash items. Investing Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we generated $21.2 million of net cash proceeds from investing activities. These net cash proceeds were due to investment maturities of $49.0 million, partially offset by purchases of investments of $25.9 million and cash paid for equipment purchases of $1.9 million. Financing Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we generated $5.1 million of net cash from financing activities. These net cash proceeds were due to stock-option exercises and our employee stock purchase plan, offset by $0.8 million taxes paid to cover RSU vesting. Cash Requirements and Contractual Obligations Our primary cash requirements are for operating expenses and capital expenditures. Our operating expenses have generally increased as we invest in developing products and technologies that we believe have the potential to drive long-term business growth. Convertible Notes As of March 31, 2025, the principal balance outstanding on the 2021 Notes is $287.5 million. Refer to Note 7 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for maturity date, stated interest rate and additional information on our 2021 Notes. Operating Lease Obligations Our lease portfolio comprises primarily operating leases for our office space. For additional information regarding our operating leases, see Note 11 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Purchase Commitments Purchase commitments as of March 31, 2025 total $31.3 million and comprise noncancelable commitments to purchase inventory. Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements Since inception, we have not had any relationships with unconsolidated entities, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special-purpose entities, or financial partnerships that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance-sheet arrangements or for another contractually narrow or limited purpose. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates We have prepared our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Our preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions. For information on our critical accounting policies and estimates, see Part II, Item 7 (Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024.