Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements containing words such as may, believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, project, projections, business outlook, estimate, or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition or state other forward-looking information. These statements relate to our future plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. They include, but are not limited to, statements about: our market opportunity; the adoption of RAIN RFID technology and solutions; our ability to compete effectively against competitors and competing technologies; our market share and technology leadership; and the implementation of our business model, strategic plans and product development plans; the impact of Covid-19, including on macroeconomic conditions and our business, results of operations and financial condition; our future financial performance, including our average selling prices, gross margins, liquidity and capital resources, as well as future macroeconomic conditions; the performance of third parties on which we rely for product manufacturing, assembly and testing; and our relationship with third parties on which we rely for product distribution, sales, integration and development; our ability to adequately protect our intellectual property; the regulatory regime for our products and services; and our leadership of standards-setting processes. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, including those factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors). In light of the significant uncertainties and risks inherent in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or anyone else that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all, or as predictions of future events. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Our Business Our vision is a boundless Internet of Things, or IoT. We are driving a future in which everyday physical items are wirelessly connected to digital counterparts, or digital twins, in the cloud, and in which businesses and people access information about an item from its digital twin. Our mission is to connect every thing. We deliver a platform that powers item-to-cloud connectivity, and on which enterprise solution providers innovate IoT whole products. Today, we deliver the identity, location and authenticity of billions of physical items. We believe our future is extending that delivery to trillions of physical items and enabling ubiquitous access to cloud-based digital twins of those items, each storing an items ownership, history and links. We believe the item-to-cloud connectivity that our platform will deliver will enhance businesses efficiencies and commerce and, ultimately, improve peoples lives. Our platform, which comprises multiple product families, wirelessly connects individual items and delivers data about the connected items to business and consumer applications enabled by our partner network. We link the products within our platform to deliver capabilities and performance that surpasses mix-and-match solutions built from competitor products. We and our partners connect the items via a miniature radio chip embedded in the item or in its packaging, reading and delivering each items identity, location and authenticity. To date, we have enabled connectivity to over 50 billion items, enabling businesses and consumers to derive timely information from those connected items. Our platform uses RAIN, a type of radio-frequency identification, or RFID, technology we pioneered. We spearheaded development of the RAIN radio standard, lobbied governments to allocate frequency spectrum and cofounded the RAIN Alliance that today has more than 160 member companies. Our industry uses free spectrum in 78 countries encompassing roughly 96.5% of the worlds GDP and has connected many tens of billions of items to date. We believe RAINs capabilities in particular, endpoint ICs with serialized identifiers, 30-foot range reading up to 1,000 items per second without line-of-sight, radio-frequency energy harvesting for battery-free operation, essentially unlimited life and, in the future, cryptographic item authentication position RAIN to be the leading item-to-cloud connectivity technology for the IoT. 18 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Our Performance Covid-19 We are actively monitoring and mitigating the impacts of Covid-19 in all aspects of our business, including for our employees, suppliers, partners and end users. For our endpoint IC business, forecasting was already difficult without Covid-19, because we sell our ICs to inlay partners and therefore have limited visibility to end-user demand. The myriad uncertainties that Covid-19 introduced, and continues introducing, especially at retail end users, has exacerbated that forecasting difficulty. Covid-19s impact has been further complicated by countries vaccinating and reopening at different rates, with some seemingly able to manage the transition and others not. Covid-19 also caused long-term shifts, many negative, in other industries important to us, such as aviation and sports. Even in supply chain and logistics, or SC&L, which saw shipment volumes surge in the depths of Covid-19, end users had been reticent to deploy new technologies. We built endpoint IC inventory through much of 2020, anticipating tight 200mm wafer foundry capacity ahead of our transition to the 300mm M700 product family. W e introduced our new Impinj M700 in 2020 and, although it was in production by the end of 2020, we initially saw a slower demand ramp than we expected. Today, with general anticipation of a return to some semblance of normalcy post Covid-19, demand for all our endpoint ICs, including our M700, is rising. Worldwide IC wafer demand is also rising, leading to wafer shortfalls in many industries, including ours. In first-quarter 2021, we consumed the inventory we built in 2020 at a pace that exceeded our first-quarter 2021 wafer supply and post-processing capacity. We plan to moderate that inventory burndown, at least through the next two quarters, stretching our IC supply to our partners and market but constraining our ability to fully capitalize on the increasing endpoint IC demand. For our systems business, Covid-19 delayed pilots and deployments throughout 2020. These delays were due in some cases to businesses being closed by local regulations and in others by reduced or deferred capital expenditures. Some end users accelerated their investments in business-process modernization technologies like RAIN during the pandemic, but even in those cases, Covid-19 delayed deployments for reasons of health and safety, product and labor availability, and store closures. We also saw our distributors normalize their inventory to match Covid-19 demand levels. Like for our endpoint ICs, we built inventory during the pandemic. Also like for our endpoint ICs, we didnt build enough. Today, we see systems demand returning but packaging delays and packaging price increases causing short supply of our reader ICs, low inventory levels at our distributors, and price increases and component shortfalls for our systems products generally. Consequently, like for our endpoint ICs, our ability to capitalize on the increasing systems demand is constrained. Our business operations have also been affected by Covid-19. Government restrictions in the early days of the pandemic caused us to mostly close our offices in early 2020. Except for a small number of employees who need to be in our offices to fulfill their roles, almost all our employees continue to work from home. As we evaluate how to safely reopen our offices, our first priority is protecting our employees health and safety, and we will prioritize health and safety over a rapid office return. Covid-19 travel restrictions adversely affected our business by slowing new-product launches and typical sales activities, and those activities remain restricted. Although we anticipate that 2021 will bring a return to some semblance of normalcy, there is no assurance that Covid-19s impact on our employees or business activities in 2021 will remain modest. Our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to Covid-19 may subject us to future challenges, particularly as requirements evolve. Despite ongoing uncertainties related to Covid-19, we continue investing in research and development and long-term RAIN opportunities. Although we plan to continue making these investments throughout 2021, we may, depending on the business environment, choose to slow or suspend our investments, potentially impairing our ability to meet our long-term strategic objectives. Covid-19 negatively impacted our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in 2020, and we anticipate that the negative effects of Covid-19 on us and our business will continue in 2021. However, given the ongoing uncertainty over Covid-19s epidemiological, economic and operational impacts we cannot reasonably estimate the extent or duration of Covid-19s continuing impact on our business. The extent to which Covid-19 impacts our future results will depend on developments that are unpredictable, including the actions we and others take in response to Covid-19. For more information on Covid-19s impact on our business, please refer to Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this report. Investing in Growth We have invested in, and plan to continue investing in, research and development to enhance and extend our platform, including enhancing existing products, introducing new products and tightening the platform linkages between our products. Although we sell our products into nearly all verticals, relying significantly on our partner channel, we are today focusing particular attention on retail self-checkout and loss prevention and SC&L portal and conveyor opportunities. 19 Table of Contents Most of our investments precede any sales benefit from the investment, and in some instances , we may never see a benefit. The potential causes of the latter are many, including the market not being receptive to our product or sales approach, late or failed product development, personnel departures or other causes. We sometimes enter into arrangements with end users, suppliers or channel partners for them to fund a portion of our investment, but even in those instances the results of our investments remain uncertain, and in some instances we may be required to refund the investment if the development is unsuccessful or the market opportunity fails to materialize. In some instances, we delay or cancel investments without or until we obtain such funding. The outcome of an investment is almost always uncertain, and if our results do not meet expectations then our operating results, profitability and stock price may be adversely affected . While our long-term plan to invest for growth remains unchanged, Covid-19 has introduced new uncertainty to our business. We will continue to monitor the impacts of Covid-19 on our supply chain, market and opportunities and adjust our investment strategy as appropriate. Market Adoption Our financial performance depends on the pace and scope of end-user adoption of our products in multiple industries, but especially in retail apparel which is our largest market. Covid-19 has had, and we expect it to continue to have, a materially adverse impact on the retail industry. Covid-19 may also accelerate an ongoing shift in consumer shopping away from physical stores, which could adversely affect demand for endpoint ICs by retailers. The extent to which Covid-19 materially impacts the retail industry is unclear, as is the extent to which it will impact our product sales. Other industries that are potential future drivers of RAIN adoption have also been impacted by Covid-19, although the long-term impact on our business is unclear. For example, the aviation industry, which had proposed widespread luggage tagging, has been negatively impacted by Covid-19. By contrast, SC&L has experienced increased demand which could positively impact our financial performance if SC&L further adopts RAIN. See the section captioned Covid-19 for additional information. The pace and scope of end-user adoption, slowed in 2020 by Covid-19, remains uncertain today, potentially causing large fluctuations in our operating results. For a first historical example of the potential impact of those fluctuations, in 2015 and 2016 several major retailers commenced deployments that significantly increased our endpoint IC sales, lengthening our product lead times. In 2017 we invested in endpoint IC inventory to reduce those lead times, but in second-half 2017 the endpoint IC growth rate slowed, we believe due primarily to delays in new deployments at several large retailers. That decelerating growth rate engendered an endpoint IC channel inventory correction that negatively impacted our operating results for several subsequent quarters. For a second historical example, in late 2018 and in 2019 a large north American logistics provider purchased and deployed significant quantities of our gateways, positively impacting our operating results for several quarters, then transitioned to an operational phase in first-half 2020, reducing our gateway sales. For a third example, in first-quarter 2020 we saw high endpoint IC demand as our inlay partners built inventory ahead of Covid-19, followed by several quarters of depressed demand as those same inlay partners consumed that inventory, followed in first-quarter 2021 by high demand as those same inlay partners deliver into recovering end-user opportunities. Given the uncertainties in our market, we cannot be certain that RAIN adoption will continue; that we will have appropriate product inventory; that we will not experience future product inventory shortfalls or overages; or that Covid-19 will not materially impact our business going forward. We also cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or grow our market share for any of our products, whether because of insufficient inventory, Covid-19, competitors copying our products, insufficient wafer or other product supply, competition generally or for a host of other reasons, many of which are outside our control. Regardless of the uneven pace of retail, SC&L and other industry adoption, we believe the underlying, long-term trend is continued RAIN adoption and as a result we have continued investing in new products. In our endpoint IC business, in 2020 we introduced our new Impinj M700, which offers significant performance advantages over other endpoint ICs on the market and which we believe will foster adoption. In our systems business, in 2020 we introduced our new Impinj R700 reader, which likewise offers significant performance advantages over other readers on the market and which we believe will also foster adoption. Despite us being in full production with both products by the end of 2020, Covid-19 impacted 2020 demand for, as well as the speed with which we were able ramp production of, both. In first-quarter 2021, demand for one of those products, the M700, outstripped our supply, and we expect it to do so again in second-quarter 2021. We also continue supporting our partners to produce high-performing, high-quality inlays using the technologically advanced M700. We sell our products through partners and distributors and have limited ability to determine end-user demand. Consequently, we may incorrectly forecast that demand or not identify market shifts in a timely fashion, potentially affecting our business adversely. If RAIN market adoption, and adoption of our products specifically, does not meet our expectations or if we are unable to meet partner or end-user volume or performance expectations, because of the impact of Covid-19, recovering demand, or otherwise, then our operating results and growth prospects will be adversely affected. If we reduce prices to win opportunities, then our gross margins may be negatively affected. In contrast, if our endpoint IC, reader IC, reader or gateway sales exceed expectations, then our revenue and profitability may be positively affected. 20 Table of Contents Timing and Complexity of Customer Deployments From 2010 to 2020, our endpoint IC sales volumes increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 25%. However, the pace has been uneven and unpredictable. For example, our endpoint IC unit sales volumes increased significantly in 2016, declined in second-half 2017 and in first-half 2018, returned to growth in second-half 2018 and in 2019 (the latter albeit not at the same pace as in 2016), declined again in second- and third-quarter 2020 due to Covid-19, and recovered in fourth-quarter 2020 and first-quarter 2021. We expect short-term demand to remain unpredictable in scope and timing. Longer term, we believe our endpoint IC opportunity will continue to grow, but we cannot predict whether historical annual growth rates are indicative of the pace of future growth. Our systems business, at least for our readers and gateways, relies disproportionally on large-scale deployments at discrete end users. The timing of those large deployments causes large variability in our systems revenue. For example, we generated 14% of total 2019 revenue from a large North American SC&L provider in connection with a project-based gateway deployment. We did not have comparable new project-based revenue in 2020. Finally, although we promote our platform as an integrated offering, we sell our products individually, and end users often use only certain of our products. For any given end-user solution, whether an end user chooses to deploy our entire platform or only a portion will also affect our operating results . Average Selling Price Our product ASPs fluctuate based on competitive pressures and the discounting we offer to win opportunities, but generally decline over time. Historically, we have been able to compensate these ASP declines by reducing the per-unit cost of most of our products, by reducing supplier costs and implementing manufacturing and quality improvements, as well as by introducing newer and lower-cost products, but the timing of these cost reductions and new-product introductions fluctuates and may not materialize in any given quarter or year. In 2021, due to wafer and component supply shortfalls at many of our suppliers, we anticipate rising costs and delayed supply rather than cost declines. If we are unable to similarly increase our prices then our operating margins may suffer. Seasonality We typically renegotiate pricing with most of our endpoint IC OEMs with an effective date of the first quarter of the calendar year, reducing both revenue and gross margins in the first quarter compared to prior periods. Historically, the impact tends to decline in subsequent quarters as we reduce costs and, to the extent we can migrate our customers to newer, lower-cost products, adjust product mix. Endpoint IC volumes also tend to be historically lower in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter. We do not expect these historical trends to hold in 2021, due to the ongoing impacts, both in demand and supply, from Covid-19. System sales tend to be stronger in the fourth quarter of the calendar year, and less strong in the first quarter. We believe this seasonality is due to the availability of residual funding for capital expenditures prior to the end of many customers fiscal years. While, over the longer term, we expect these seasonal trends to continue, quarter-to-quarter variability in our revenue can be caused by a number of factors including uncertainty in demand and supply as a result of Covid-19, the timing of large deployments, competitor product availability as well as supply constraints, any or all of which can mask seasonality in any given year. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the impacts of Covid-19, can cause our actual results to differ significantly from our expectations, as described in greater detail in the sections of this report captioned Covid-19 and in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors). Inventory Supply From time to time, we experience inventory overages or shortages, either due to us mis-estimating customer or end-user demand; constrained supplier manufacturing capacity or product availability; fluctuations in our market, including competitor product availability or in the global economy; changes in regulations or tariffs; or for a host of other reasons. These inventory dynamics can impact some or all of our products. High inventory levels can result in product obsolescence, increases in reserves or unexpected expenses that adversely affect our business. Low inventory levels can affect our ability to meet customer demand, lengthen lead times and potentially causing us to miss opportunities, lose market share and/or damage customer relationships, also adversely affecting our business. For example, in 2010 we experienced wafer shortages relative to our submitted endpoint IC wafer purchase orders because of high worldwide demand for semiconductor foundry capacity. These shortages adversely affected our ability to meet our customers demand and, in some cases, caused customers to cancel orders, qualify alternative suppliers or purchase from our competitors. 21 Table of Contents In 2021, we are again experiencing wafer shortages relative to our submitted endpoint IC wafer purchase orders, due to significant worldwide demand from multiple industries, and to semiconductor foundries reallocating wafer capacity to politically significant industries like automotive . We anticipated a 2021 200mm shortfall in 2020 and, in the depths of the pandemic, both built 200mm wafer inventory and accelerated our investment in 300mm M700 post-processing capacity. Regardless, todays worldwide semiconductor wafer supply imbalance exceeds our prior expectations, and we exited first-quarter 2021 with limited 200mm inventory, tight 200mm and 300mm foundry capacity, and 300mm post-processing capacity that remains insufficient in both capacity and maturity to fully capitalize on the market demand. We are currently focused on managing our 200mm wafer supply, accelerating and maturing our 300mm post-processing capacity, and maximizing our total unit volumes to best capture the market opportunity. We were previously focused on carefully navigating the crossover between our declining 200mm inventory and our ecosystem ramping the M700, but with todays wafer-supply constraints, our focus has shifted to simply maximizing total unit volumes. In our systems business, we are experiencing significantly lengthened packaging lead times for our reader ICs, which negatively impacted our ability to meet reader IC demand in first-quarter 2021. We expect those packaging delays, and our inability to fully meet demand, to continue through second-quarter 2021. We also anticipate packaging cost increases, likely for several quarters. Although we currently have adequate supply of most readers and gateways, we have seen and anticipate future shortages and price increases for components we use in those readers and gateways, potentially impacting future product availability and/or costs. Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2021 2020 Change Revenue $ 45,248 $ 47,822 $ (2,574 ) Gross profit $ 21,981 $ 21,394 $ 587 Gross margin 48.6 % 44.7 % 3.9 % Loss from operations $ (8,872 ) $ (3,395 ) $ (5,477 ) Three months ended March 31, 2021 compared with three months ended March 31, 2020 Revenue decreased, due primarily to lower systems revenue partially offset by higher endpoint IC revenue. Gross profit increased, due primarily to sales of fully reserved inventory compared to us incurring excess and obsolescence charges in first-quarter 2020, partially offset by lower revenue and revenue mix. Gross margin increased, due primarily to the change in excess and obsolescence, partially offset by revenue mix with endpoint IC revenue representing a larger portion of our total revenue. Loss from operations increased, due primarily to increased operating expenses. The increase in operating expense wa s due primarily to increased stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges in first-quarter 2021, higher personnel expenses in research and development and increased professional service fees, including non-settlement-related legal fees . Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Endpoint ICs $ 38,082 $ 33,675 $ 4,407 Systems 7,166 14,147 (6,981 ) Total revenue $ 45,248 $ 47,822 $ (2,574 ) We currently derive substantially all our revenue from sales of endpoint ICs, reader ICs, readers and gateways. We sell our endpoint ICs primarily to inlay manufacturers; our reader ICs primarily to OEMs and ODMs through distributors; and our readers and gateways to value-added resellers, or VARs, and system integrators, or SIs, primarily through distributors. We expect endpoint IC sales to represent the majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Three months ended March 31, 2021 compared with three months ended March 31, 2020 Endpoint IC revenue increased $4.4 million, due primarily to a $7.6 million increase in shipment volumes, partially offset by a $3.2 million decrease in revenue from lower ASPs due to product mix and to a lesser extent, our annual price negotiations. The increase in shipment volumes was due primarily to growth in our customers underlying business. 22 Table of Contents Systems revenue decreased $ 7.0 million, due primarily to decreases of $ 5.1 million in gateway revenue and $ 2.9 million in reader IC revenue. The gateway revenue decrease was due primarily to a project-based deployment by a North American systems customer in the prior period transitioning to an operational phase in first-half 2020 ; the reader IC revenue decrease was due primarily to lower shipment volumes caused by packaging delays at our third-party manufacturers, which negatively affected our ability to meet reader IC demand in first-quarter 2021 . Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except percentages) 2021 2020 Change Cost of revenue $ 23,267 $ 26,428 $ (3,161 ) Gross profit $ 21,981 $ 21,394 $ 587 Gross margin 48.6 % 44.7 % 3.8 % Cost of revenue includes costs associated with manufacturing our endpoint ICs, reader ICs, readers and gateways, including direct materials and outsourced manufacturing costs as well as associated overhead costs such as logistics, quality control, planning and procurement. Cost of revenue also includes charges for excess and obsolescence and warranty costs. Our gross margin varies from period to period based on mix of endpoint IC and systems, underlying product margins driven by changes in ASPs or costs, as well as from inventory excess and obsolescence charges. Three months ended March 31, 2021 compared with three months ended March 31, 2020 Gross profit increased, due primarily to sales of fully reserved inventory in first-quarter 2021 compared to excess and obsolescence charges in first-quarter 2020, partially offset by lower revenue and revenue mix. Gross margin increased due primarily to the change in excess and obsolescence, partially offset by revenue mix with endpoint IC revenue representing a larger portion of our total revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, s ales of fully reserved inventory had a favorable net gross margin impact of 2.2% . These sales, primarily of endpoint IC inventory included in the excess and obsolescence charge for the three months ended March 31, 2020, as noted below, are the result of increased endpoint IC demand in todays supply-constrained environment. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we recorded inventory excess and obsolescence charges with an unfavorable net gross margin impact of 5.6%. Those charges, which reduced the inventory value of the impacted products to zero, were due primarily to reduced demand for older-generation endpoint ICs and EU gateways. At the time, we expected future demand to be met by our newer generation endpoint ICs and EU gateways. Instead, as a result of todays industry-wide wafer shortages, we sold a significant portion of the reserved endpoint ICs in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Research and development $ 13,791 $ 11,057 $ 2,734 Research and development expense comprises primarily personnel expenses (salaries, benefits and other employee related costs) and stock-based compensation expense for our product-development personnel; external consulting and service costs; prototype materials; other new-product development costs; and an allocated portion of infrastructure costs which include occupancy, depreciation and software costs. We expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars in future periods as we focus on new product development and introductions. Three months ended March 31, 2021 compared with three months ended March 31, 2020 Research and development expense increased $2.7 million, due primarily to increases of $1.3 million in personnel expenses from higher headcount and $1.1 million in stock-based compensation expense from PSUs as well as an increased number of stock options and RSUs. 23 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Sales and marketing $ 7,645 $ 7,490 $ 155 Sales and marketing expense comprises primarily personnel expenses (salaries, incentive sales compensation, or commission, benefits and other employee related costs) and stock-based compensation expense for our sales and marketing personnel; travel, advertising and promotional expenses; and an allocated portion of infrastructure costs which include occupancy, depreciation and software costs. We expect sales and marketing expense to remain approximately constant on an absolute dollar basis, except for incentive sales compensation which fluctuates as a function of revenue. Expenses associated with our sales and marketing activities requiring travel will continue fluctuating depending on current and future Covid-19 travel restrictions. Three months ended March 31, 2021 compared with three months ended March 31, 2020 Sales and marketing expense remained comparable to the prior period, with a $434,000 increase in stock-based compensation expense from an increased number of stock options and RSUs, mostly offset by a $357,000 decrease in marketing and advertising expense from reduced spend on tradeshows which continue to be impacted by Covid-19. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Change General and administrative $ 8,154 $ 6,242 $ 1,912 General and administrative expense comprises primarily personnel expenses (salaries, benefits, and other employee related costs) and stock-based compensation expense for our executive, finance, human resources and information technology personnel; legal, accounting and other professional service fees; travel and insurance expense; and an allocated portion of infrastructure costs which include, occupancy, depreciation and software costs. Three months ended March 31, 2021 compared with three months ended March 31, 2020 General and administrative expense increased $1.9 million, due primarily to increases of $1.0 million in professional service fees, including non-settlement-related legal fees, $623,000 in stock-based compensation expense from PSUs as well as an increased number of stock options and RSUs and $414,000 in personnel expenses associated with higher payroll taxes. Restructuring Costs Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Restructuring costs $ 1,263 $ $ 1,263 On February 2, 2021, we executed a restructuring plan in our go-to-market organization to strategically align our global sales, product, partner development and marketing teams. As part of the plan, we expect to eliminate approximately seven full-time positions in our go-to-market organization, representing about 2% of our workforce. We incurred restructuring charges of $1.2 million for employee termination benefits as well as $50,000 in other associated legal costs in first-quarter 2021 . We expect to substantially complete our restructuring plan by June 30, 2021. For further information on this restructuring, please refer to Note 12 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Other Income, net Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Other income, net $ 23 $ 409 $ (386 ) Other income, net comprises primarily interest income on our short-term investments. Other income, net decreased $386,000, due primarily to lower average balances on our short-term investments compared to the prior period. 24 Table of Contents Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Interest expense $ 525 $ 1,312 $ (787 ) Interest expense comprises primarily cash interest, amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discount on our long-term debt. In August 2020, the FASB issued guidance on debt with conversion and other options, or ASU 2020-06. On January 1, 2021, we adopted ASU 2020-06 using the modified retrospective transition method, accounting for the 2019 Notes on a whole-instrument basis. Our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2021 are presented under the new standard and we no longer record amortization of debt discount. We have not adjusted the comparative prior reporting period. Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Income tax benefit (expense) $ 42 $ 28 $ 14 We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Income tax expense remained comparable for the periods stated above. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Our key non-GAAP performance measures include adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income (loss), as defined below. We use adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income (loss) as key measures to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operating plans. We believe these measures provide useful information for period-to-period comparisons of our business to allow investors and others to understand and evaluate our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Our presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from similarly termed non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP, excluding, if applicable for the periods presented, the effects of stock-based compensation; depreciation; investigation costs; restructuring costs; settlement and related costs; other income, net; interest expense; loss on debt extinguishment; and income tax benefit (expense). The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Net loss $ (9,416 ) $ (4,326 ) $ (5,090 ) Adjustments: Other income, net (23 ) (409 ) 386 Interest expense 525 1,312 (787 ) Income tax expense 42 28 14 Depreciation 1,040 1,168 (128 ) Stock-based compensation 7,449 5,221 2,228 Restructuring costs 1,263 1,263 Adjusted EBITDA $ 880 $ 2,994 $ (2,114 ) Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss) We define non-GAAP net income (loss) as net income (loss), excluding, if applicable for the periods presented, the effects of stock-based compensation; depreciation; investigation costs; restructuring costs; settlement and related costs; amortization of debt discount related to the equity component of our convertible notes prior to the adoption of ASU 2020-06; and prepayment penalty on debt extinguishment. On January 1, 2021, we adopted ASU 2020-06 using the modified retrospective transition method, accounting for the 2019 Notes on a whole-instrument basis. Our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2021 are presented under the new standard and we no longer record amortization of debt discount. We have not adjusted the comparative prior reporting period. 25 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to non-GAAP net income (loss): Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Net loss $ (9,416 ) $ (4,326 ) $ (5,090 ) Adjustments: Depreciation 1,040 1,168 (128 ) Stock-based compensation 7,449 5,221 2,228 Restructuring costs 1,263 1,263 Amortization of debt discount 854 (854 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 336 $ 2,917 $ (2,581 ) Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2021, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $119.3 million, comprising cash deposits held at major financial institutions and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including U.S. government agencies, treasury bills, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper and money market funds. We had working capital of $61.5 million as of March 31, 2021. We believe, based on our current operating plan, that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Regardless, our future cash requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of growth and the timing and extent of our spending to support our capital expenditures and research and development efforts. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions, we may require additional funding which may be in the form of additional debt, equity or equity-linked financing or a combination thereof. We can provide no assurance that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. Sources of Funds Historically, we have funded our operations primarily through cash generated from operations and by issuing equity securities, convertible-debt offerings and/or borrowing under our prior senior credit facility. From time to time, we may explore additional financing sources and means to lower our cost of capital, which could include equity, equity-linked and debt financing. 2019 Notes In December 2019, we issued the 2019 Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $86.3 million. The 2019 Notes are our senior unsecured obligations. The 2019 Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.00% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2020. The 2019 Notes will be convertible into cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, at our election. The 2019 Notes will mature on December 15, 2026, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed, or converted in accordance with the terms of the indenture for the 2019 Notes. The net proceeds from issuing the 2019 Notes were approximately $83.5 million after deducting fees and expenses. We used the net proceeds from issuing the 2019 Notes to pay the cost of the capped-call transactions and repay our prior senior credit facility. We intend to use the remainder of the net proceeds for general corporate purposes. For further information on the terms of this debt, please refer to Note 6 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Cash Flows The following table presents selected cash flow information for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 9,369 $ 1,845 Net cash provided by investing activities 8,269 13,063 Net cash provided by financing activities 8,522 1,916 Operating Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we generated $9.4 million of net cash from operating activities. These net cash proceeds were driven primarily by a $10.0 million working-capital contribution, partially offset by $615,000 of net loss adjusted for non-cash items. The working capital contribution was due primarily to lower cash usage for inventory purchases. 26 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we generated $1.8 million of net cash from operating activities. These net cash proceeds were driven primarily by $2.9 million proceeds from net loss adjusted for non-cash items, partially offset by $1.1 million working-capital usage due primarily to lower cash collection from accounts receivable due to timing and inventory related to the excess and obsolescence charges described previously. Investing Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we generated $8.3 million of net cash from investing activities. The net cash proceeds were driven primarily by investment maturities of $25.0 million, partially offset by investment and property and equipment purchases of $12.3 million and $4.4 million, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we generated $13.1 million of net cash from investing activities. These net cash proceeds were driven primarily by investment maturities of $14.2 million, partially offset by property and equipment purchases of $1.1 million. Financing Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we generated $8.5 million of net cash from financing activities. These net cash proceeds were driven primarily by $8.5 million from exercised stock options and our employee stock purchase plan. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we generated $1.9 million of net cash from financing activities. These net cash proceeds were driven primarily by $2.0 million from exercised stock options and our employee stock purchase plan. Cash Requirements and Contractual Obligations Our primary cash requirements are for operating expenses and capital expenditures. Our operating expenses have generally increased as we invest in sales and marketing and in research and development of new products and technologies that we believe have the potential to drive long-term business growth. The following table reflects a summary of our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2021: Payments Due By Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years (in thousands) Convertible senior notes (1) $ 96,600 $ 1,725 $ 3,450 $ 3,450 $ 87,975 Operating lease obligations Operating lease obligations 22,162 4,924 8,096 6,582 2,561 Sublease income (2,646 ) (1,425 ) (1,221 ) Net operating lease commitments 19,517 3,499 6,874 6,582 2,561 Purchase commitments (2) 23,611 23,611 Total $ 139,728 $ 28,835 $ 10,324 $ 10,032 $ 90,536 (1) Include $10.4 million of interest payments due on the 2019 Notes. (2) Purchase commitments comprise primarily non-cancelable commitments to purchase $16.9 million of inventory as of March 31, 2021, as well as non-cancelable software license agreements with vendors. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Since inception, we have not had any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for another contractually narrow or limited purpose. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates We have prepared our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Our preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions. For information on our critical accounting policies and estimates, see Part II, Item 7 (Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 . 27 Table of Contents