Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and are generally identifiable by use of the words may, will, should, expect, anticipate, estimate, believe, intend or project or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements herein represent our expectations, beliefs, plans, intentions or strategies concerning future events, including, but not limited to: our ability to consummate the Merger, as such term is defined below; the continued services of the Custodian as such term is defined below; our future financial performance; the continuation of historical trends; the sufficiency of our resources in funding our operations; our intention to engage in mergers and acquisitions; and our liquidity and capital needs. Our forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that may be incorrect, and there can be no assurance that any projections or other expectations included in any forward-looking statements will come to pass. Moreover, our forward-looking statements are subject to various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to: the risks of limited management, labor, and financial resources; our ability to establish and maintain adequate internal controls; our ability to develop and maintain a market in our securities; and our ability obtain financing, if and when needed, on terms that are acceptable. Except as required by applicable laws, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. As used in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, we, our, us and the Company refer to SIPP International Industries, Inc., a Nevada corporation, unless the context requires otherwise. ii Item 1. Financial Statements. Index to Financial Statements Page FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: Balance Sheets, September 30, 2010 (unaudited), and December 31, 2009 2 Unaudited Statements of Operations, for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010, and September 30, 2009 3 Unaudited Statements of Changes in Stockholders (Deficit), for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010, and September 30, 2009 4 Unaudited Statements of Cash Flows, for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010, and September 30, 2009 5 Notes to the Unaudited Interim Financial Statements 6 1 SIPP INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INC. BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (amounts in thousands except per share data) September 30, December 31, 2010 2009 ASSETS Total Assets $ - $ - LIABILITIES & STOCKHOLDERS DEFICIT Current liabilities Debts maturing within one year $ 11,795 $ 11,795 Accounts payable -trade 7,142 7,142 Due to related parties 19 19 Due to principal stockholder 7,821 7,821 Other payable 5,420 5,420 Tax payable 967 967 Accrued expenses and other accrued liabilities 4,883 4,883 Total current liabilities 38,047 38,047 Long term debts 2,419 2,419 Minority Interests in Consolidated Subsidiaries 10,878 10,878 Commitments and contingencies - - Stockholders Equity Common Stock 1,102 1,102 Additional paid- in capital 9,729 9,729 Retained earnings (62,175 ) (62,175 ) Total Stockholders Equity (Deficit) (51,344 ) (51,344 ) Total Liabilities and Stockholders (Equity) $ - $ - The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 2 SIPP INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INC. STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (amounts in thousands except per share data) FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED September 30, September 30, 2010 2009 Net sales $ - $ - Rental income - - Total operating revenue - - Operating Expenses: Manufacturing and other cost of sales - - Sales and marketing - - General and administrative - - Research and development - - Depreciation and amortization - - Other operating costs - - Total operating expenses - - Income (Loss) from operations - - Other income (expense) Interest (expense) - - Other income (loss), net - - Other (expense) net - - Income (loss) before provision for income taxes - - Provision for income taxes Income before minority interest - - Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries - - Net income $ - $ - Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common share $ - $ - Weighted average number of shares outstanding 27,461 27,461 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 3 SIPP INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INC. STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY (Unaudited) (amounts in thousands except per share data) Additional Stockholders Common stock Paid-in Retained Equity/ Shares Value Capital Earnings (Deficit) Balance: December 31, 2008 27,461,290 $ 1,102 $ 9,729 $ (62,175 ) $ (51,344 ) Net income (loss) - Balance: December 31, 2009 27,461,290 $ 1,102 $ 9,729 $ (62,175 ) $ (51,344 ) Net income (loss) - Balance: September 30, 2010 27,461,290 $ 1,102 $ 9,729 $ (62,175 ) $ (51,344 ) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 4 SIPP INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INC. STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (amounts in thousands except per share data) FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED September 30, September 30, 2010 2009 Cash Flows From Operating Activities: Net income (loss) $ - $ - Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used for) operating activities Loss on disposal of assets-net of cash - - Net cash provided by operating activities - - Cash Flows From Investing Activities: Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities - - Cash Flows From Financing Activities: Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities - - Net Increase (Decrease) In Cash - - Cash At The Beginning Of The Period - - Cash At The End Of The Period $ - $ - Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information: Cash paid for income taxes $ - $ - Cash paid for interest $ - $ - The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 5 NOTES TO (UNAUDITED) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 ORGANIZATION AND DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS SIPP International Industries, Inc f/k/a Industries International, Inc., (the Company or IDUL), a Nevada corporation, incorporated under the laws of the state of Nevada on January 11, 1991. IDUL was accepted for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board on December 7, 2001, and organized originally to propose, plan and developing a golf course in either Moapa area or Overton Valley area in Nevada. On May 17, 2004, the Company filed its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. On May 24, 2004, the Companys auditors, Moores, Rowland, and Mazars resigned due to a disagreement with the Company and due to the fact that they had not reviewed the Companys 10-Q filing prior to submission to the SEC. Subsequent to the filing for March 31, 2004, the Company stopped reporting until a Form 15-12G was filed on July 18, 2011. The Company is currently an inactive shell company. As a result, for the purposes of these financial statements, all assets were considered disposed of as of June 30, 2004, and all liabilities reflected on the Companys balance sheet as of December 31, 2003, remained and were carryforward without change. NOTE 2 BASIS OF PRESENTATION The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) FASB Accounting Standard Codification (the Codification ) which is the source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) in the United States. Going Concern The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business for the twelve months following the date of these financial statements. Because the Company does not expect that existing operational cash flow will be sufficient to fund presently anticipated operations, this raises substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the Company will need to raise additional funds and is currently exploring alternative sources of financing. Historically, the Company raised capital through private placements, to finance working capital needs and may attempt to raise capital through the sale of common stock or other securities and obtaining some short-term loans. The Company will be required to continue to so until its operations become profitable. Also, the Company has, in the past, paid for consulting services with its common stock to maximize working capital, and intends to continue this practice where feasible. Managements Representation of Interim Financial Statements The accompanying unaudited financial statements have been prepared by the Company without audit pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Company uses the same accounting policies in preparing quarterly and annual financial statements. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) have been condensed or omitted as allowed by such rules and regulations, and management believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. These financial statements include all of the adjustments, which in the opinion of management are necessary to a fair presentation of financial position and results of operations. All such adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year. NOTE 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Income taxes Provision for income and other related taxes has been provided in accordance with the tax rates and laws in effect in PRC. The Company did not carry on any business and did not maintain any branch office in the United States of America. No provision for withholding or U.S. federal income taxes or tax benefits on the undistributed earnings and / or losses of the Company has been provided as the earnings of the Company, in the opinion of the management, will be reinvested indefinitely. 6 Income tax expense is computed based on pre-tax income included in the consolidated statement of operation. Income taxes have been provided, using the liability method, which requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. The tax consequences of those differences are classified as current or non-current based upon the classification of the related assets or liabilities in the consolidated financial statements. Earnings per share The basic earnings per share are computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common stocks outstanding during each period as restated as a result of the recapitalization, merger under common control, and one-for-four reverse split, as described in Notes 2 and 5 respectively. The computation of diluted earnings per share is same to the computation of basic earnings per share except that the weighted-average number of shares outstanding is adjusted to include estimates of additional shares that would be issued if potentially dilutive common stocks had been issued. In addition, income available to common stockholders is adjusted to include any changes in income or loss that would result from the assumed issuance of the dilutive common stocks. There were no dilutive securities outstanding during any of the years. Foreign currency translation The Company considers Renminbi as its functional currency as a substantial portion of the Companys business activities are based in Renminbi. Transactions in currencies other than functional currency during the year are translated into the functional currency at the applicable rates of exchange prevailing at the time of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency at the applicable rates of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date. Exchange gains and losses are dealt with in the consolidated statement of operation. Use of estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with USGAAP requires the Companys management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, the accounting for certain items such as allowance for doubtful accounts, depreciation, and amortization, inventory allowance, taxes, and contingencies. Related parties Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial and operating decisions. Parties are also considered to be related if they are subject to common control or common significant influence. NOTE 4 DEBTS Long-term debts consisted primarily of $2,419 in bank loans at an interest rate of 5.49% due in 2005. The interests on amounts borrowed under the various loan, agreements are at market rates. NOTE 5 COMMON STOCK As of December 31, 2002, the authorized capital of IDUL is USD200 divided into 5,000,000 shares of common stock, par value US dollar 0.04 par value, with one vote for each share. As described in Notes 2(a) and 4 above, on February 10, 2003, 1,249,215 shares, represented by the outstanding shares of IDUL before recapitalization, were issued and offset against the additional paid-in capital, for the historical book value of net monetary liability of IDUL before recapitalization. On April 10, 2003, IDUL amended and restated its Articles of Incorporation to authorize 125,000,000 shares of common stock and 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock. On May 12, 2003, the board of directors of IDUL approved and declared a one-for-four reverse split of IDULs common stock, thereby decreasing the number of issued and outstanding shares and increasing the par value of each share. The number of common shares and per- share amounts shown in these financial statements have been retroactively restated to reflect the reverse split. The reverse stock split become effective on June 2, 2003. 7 On May 14, 2003, 3,941,358 restricted shares of common stock of IDUL, at par value, were issued for the acquisition of 100% interest in LPI and were considered outstanding from the beginning of the period as described in Note 2(b) above. As described in Note 3 above, on June 10, 2003, IDUL issued 665,860 restricted shares of common stock of IDUL, for a value of USD2,670 to acquire an additional 4.2372% interest in an affiliate, Wondial. As described in Note 8 below, during the fiscal year 2003, the principal stockholder of IDUL, Mr. Tsui Kit, established a stock plan (PS Plan) to grant restricted stock awards of 1,281,519 shares, which was issued to him for recapitalization and acquisition of LPI, to employee (1,057,666 shares). NOTE 6 DISTRIBUTION OF INCOME The Companys income is substantially contributed by two majority-owned subsidiaries, Wondial and WLPS, limited companies incorporated in PRC. Income of Wondial and WLPS is distributable to their stockholders after transfer to dedicated reserves as required under relevant PRC rules and regulations and their articles of association. Dedicated reserves include statutory surplus reserve and statutory public welfare fund. In accordance with the relevant PRC Companies Law and rules and regulations, Wondial and WLPS, are required to transfer amounts equal to 10% and 5% of its income after taxation to the statutory surplus reserve and statutory public welfare fund respectively. The statutory surplus reserve can only be utilized to offset prior years losses or for capitalization as paid-in capital, whereas the statutory public welfare fund shall be utilized for collective staff welfare benefits such as the building of staff quarters or housing. No distribution of the remaining reserves shall be made other than on liquidation of Wondial and WLPS. NOTE 7 PENSION COSTS As stipulated by PRC regulations, the Company maintains a defined contribution retirement plan for all of its employees who are residents of PRC. All retired employees of the Company are entitled to an annual pension equal to their basic annual salary upon retirement. The Company contributed to a state-sponsored retirement plan approximately 9% of the basic salary of its employees and has no further obligations for the actual pension payments or post-retirement benefits beyond the annual contributions. The state-sponsored retirement plan is responsible for the entire pension obligations payable to all employees. NOTE 8 TAXATION The Company are subject to income taxes on an entity basis on income arising in or derived from the tax jurisdictions in which they operate. As of December 31, 2004, and 2003, IDUL had a net operating loss carry-forward for income tax reporting purposes of approximately $-0- that might be offset against future taxable income. Current tax laws limit the amount of loss available to be offset against future taxable income when a substantial change in ownership occurs. Therefore, following the recapitalization as mentioned before, the amount available to offset future taxable income might be limited. No tax benefit has been reported in the financial statements, because the Company believes there is more likely than not the carry-forwards will be limited. Accordingly, the potential tax benefits of the loss carry-forwards are offset by a valuation allowance of the same amount. No provision for withholding or United States federal or state income taxes or tax benefits on the undistributed earnings and/or losses of the Companys subsidiaries has been provided as the earnings of these subsidiaries, in the opinion of the management, will be reinvested indefinitely. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred taxes on these earnings is not practical, however, unrecognized foreign tax credits would be available to reduce a portion of the tax liability. Among the Companys subsidiaries, BFL, SIL and LPI, are not liable for income taxes. NOTE 9 STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION During the fiscal year 2003, IDUL has granted various stock options and stock-based awards under (1) EI Plan and (2) PS Plan which are described below. (1) EI Plan EI Plan was approved by IDULs board of directors and stockholders on February 28, 2003, and April 7, 2003, respectively. EI Plan is intended to provide incentives to attract, retain and motivate both eligible employees and directors of the Company, as well as consultants, advisors, and independent contractors who provide valuable services to the Company (any such person hereinafter called a Participant). 8 The EI Plan will be administered by the board or by a committee of the board. Within certain limits, the administrator of the EI Plan, whether the board or a committee thereof, will be authorized to select eligible Participants to receive awards under the EI Plan, determine the number of shares included in such awards, determine the form, term, vesting, exercisability, and required payment, if any, of such awards, and to make any other determinations necessary or useful for the administration of the EI Plan. The administrator of the EI Plan may issue options with an exercise price equal to or above 85% of the market price of our common stock at the date of issuance, except that (i) Incentive Stock Options must have an exercise price equal to or above the market price as of the date of issuance, and (ii) options issued to Participants who beneficially own at least 10% of IDULs issued and outstanding common stock must have an exercise price equal to or above 110% of the market price on the date of issuance. The administrator of the EI Plan may set any period of time, up to ten years, for the expiration of options, except that options issued to Participants who beneficially own at least 10% of our issued and outstanding common stock must expire within five years from the date of issuance. Options granted under the EI Plan can only be exercised by delivery to the administrator of an exercise agreement in a form approved by the administrator. Initially, 3,750,000 shares of IDULs common stock are reserved for issuance under EI Plan. On October 2, 2003, a further 5,000,000 shares of IDUL are reserved under EI Plan. Under EI Plan, awards may consist of grants of options to purchase IDULs common stock (either Incentive Stock Options (for eligible persons) or Non-Qualified Stock Options, as each is defined in the Internal Revenue Code), grants of restricted common stock, or grants of unrestricted common stock. a) Stock options Stock options under EI Plan have been granted to officers, other employees and directors to purchase shares of common stock at or above 85% of the market price of IDULs common stock at the date of issuance. Generally, these options, whether granted from the current plans, become exercisable over staggered periods, but expire after 10 years from the date of the grant. On May 13, 2003, 425,000 and 125,000 unrestricted stock options were issued to directors of the Company and a non-employee respectively. As described above, the Company adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123, but elected to continue to measure compensation expense in relation to options granted to employees in accordance with APB No. 25. Accordingly, no compensation expense is recorded for the 425,000 stock options granted to employees because the exercise price of IDULs stock options is equal to or greater than the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant. Had compensation expense been determined based on the estimated fair value of options granted in the second quarter of fiscal 2003, consistent with the methodology in SFAS No. 123, net income and earnings per share would have been reduced. See Stock-based compensation within Note 3 above for the disclosure under SFAS No. 123. The options granted had a weighted average fair value per share on date of grant of USD4.16. For purposes of pro forma disclosure, the estimated fair value of the options is amortized to expense over the options vesting periods, i.e., 5 years as prescribed under EI Plan. The fair value of the option grant is estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, assuming no dividends and the following weighted average assumptions used for grants in the fiscal year 2003: Risk-free interest rate 4.61 % Expected volatility 99.14 % Contractual life 10 years On May 13, 2003, 125,000 stock options were granted to a non-employee for her five years of service from July 1, 2003. Consistent with the methodology in SFAS No. 123 and according to EITF D-90 Grantor Balance Sheet Presentation of Unvested, Forfeiture Equity Instruments Granted to a Nonemployee, those unvested and forfeitable equity instruments was treated as unissued for accounting purposes until the future services are received. In the third quarter of the fiscal year 2003, the non-employee failed to fulfill an obligation under the service agreement and the option will be canceled. NOTE 10 REPORT ON SEGMENT INFORMATION The Companys operations are classified into three reportable business segments: communication terminal products, mainly corded and cordless telephone which are sold under the trademark, Wondial (TM), battery testing equipment and battery products. The Companys three reportable business segments are identified separately based on fundamental differences in their operations. There are no material intersegment sales. 9 NOTE 11 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Name and relationship of related parties NAME RELATIONSHIP WITH THE COMPANY Shenzhen Ligaofa Electronic Company Limited (SLFE) Joint venturer of a PRC affiliate and under control of cousin and mother of Tsui Kit Wonderland Telecommunication Industrial Under common control of Tsui Kit (Hong Kong) Company Limited (WTI) LPI Under common control of Tsui Kit WLPS Under common control of Tsui Kit Wuhan Lixing (Torch) Power Sources Company Under common control of Tsui Kit Limited (WLTPS) Tsui Kit Principal stockholder and director of IDUL BTUEG Stockholder of Wondial Yu Weijiang Brother-in-law of Tsui Kit Xu Dong Sister of Tsui Kit Xu Zhiyong Brother of Tsui Kit Zhang Ernong General manager of Wondial Minority shareholder of an affiliate of Director and shareholder of WLPS Director of an affiliate of WTLPS NOTE 12 COMMITMENTS Operating leases Future minimum rental payments to be received on non-cancelable operating leases are contractually due as follows: 2004 $ 377 2005 $ 531 There were no contingent rentals under the respective lease contracts. NOTE 13 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS None. 10 Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. No Current Operations Plan of Operation Currently, as of June 2021, the Company has no operations from a continuing business other than the expenditures related to running the Company and has no revenue from continuing operations as of the date of this Report. As a result the Company does not deem it necessary to provide MD&A disclosures for prior periods because there are no operations. Management intends to explore and identify business opportunities within the U.S., including a potential acquisition of an operating entity through a reverse merger, asset purchase or similar transaction. We do not currently engage in any business activities that provide revenue or cash flow. During the next 12-month period we anticipate incurring costs in connection with investigating, evaluating, and negotiating potential business combinations, filing SEC reports, and consummating an acquisition of an operating business. Given our limited capital resources, we may consider a business combination with an entity which has recently commenced operations, is a developing company or is otherwise in need of additional funds for the development of new products or services or expansion into new markets, or is an established business experiencing financial or operating difficulties and is in need of additional capital. Alternatively, a business combination may involve the acquisition of, or merger with, an entity which desires access to the U.S. capital markets. As of the date of this Report, our management has not had any discussions with any representative of any other entity regarding a potential business combination. Any target business that is selected may be financially unstable or in the early stages of development. In such event, we expect to be subject to numerous risks inherent in the business and operations of a financially unstable or early-stage entity. In addition, we may effect a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk or in which our management has limited experience, and, although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain or assess all significant risks. 11 Our management anticipates that we will likely only be able to effect one business combination due to our limited capital. This lack of diversification will likely pose a substantial risk in investing in the Company for the indefinite future because it will not permit us to offset potential losses from one venture or operating territory against gains from another. The risks we face will likely be heightened to the extent we acquire a business operating in a single industry or geographical region. We anticipate that the selection of a business combination will be a complex and risk-prone process. Because of general economic conditions, including unfavorable conditions caused by the coronavirus pandemic, rapid technological advances being made in some industries and shortages of available capital, management believes that there are a number of firms seeking business opportunities at this time at discounted rates with which we will compete. We expect that any potentially available business combinations may appear in a variety of different industries or regions and at various stages of development, all of which will likely render the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complicated. Once we have developed and begun to implement our business plan, management intends to fund our working capital requirements through a combination of our existing funds and future issuances of debt or equity securities. Our working capital requirements are expected to increase in line with the implementation of a business plan and commencement of operations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period. In accordance with GAAP, we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are fully described in Note 2 to our financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and we believe those accounting policies are critical to the process of making significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements None.