Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The occurrence of one or more of the events or circumstances described in these risk factors, alone or in combination with other events or circumstances, may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, revenue, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects, in which case the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Unless otherwise indicated, reference in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to our business being adversely affected, negatively impacted or harmed will include an adverse effect on, or a negative impact or harm to, our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue or our future prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not intended to be exhaustive and are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including the risks described below. See the section titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Summary of Risks An investment in shares of our Class A common stock and warrants involves substantial risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect the value of your investment. Some of the more significant challenges and risks relating to an investment in our company include, among other things, the following: Risks Related to Our Operations and Industry The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may limit our net sales and profitability. If we fail to compete effectively in the highly competitive semiconductor industry, our business could be adversely affected. Declining average selling prices and price erosion may adversely impact our revenue and profitability. Failure to win competitive bid selection processes could adversely affect our business. Decline in demand for our customers end products could adversely impact our revenue and profitability. Any downturn in the automotive market could significantly harm our financial results. We depend on third parties to manufacture, assemble, test and/or package our products, We rely on the timely supply of materials that may only be available from a limited number of suppliers. We must develop new products with acceptable profit margins. Strategic backlog and design win pipeline estimations may not result in revenue or profits. Mergers, acquisitions, investments and joint ventures could adversely affect our results of operations. Future growth could strain our resources, management, information and telecommunication systems and operating and financial controls. We may seek additional capital, which may result in dilution to our stockholders. We may rely on strategic partnerships, joint ventures and alliances, which may fail for reasons outside of our control. We may not be successful in exiting certain programs or businesses or in restructuring our operations, which could adversely impact our business. Disruptions in our relationships with any one of our key customers could adversely affect our business. We have historically incurred losses and may continue to incur losses. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our existing and future indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the 2027 Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. Provisions in the 2027 Indenture for the 2027 Notes may deter or prevent a business combination that stockholders may consider favorable. The accounting method for reflecting the 2027 Notes may adversely affect our reported earnings and financial condition. The conditional conversion feature of the 2027 Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure We are dependent upon distributions made by our subsidiaries to make certain payments, and such distributions may be delayed or restricted for reasons outside of our control. We are party to a Tax Receivable Agreement, which requires us to make certain payments, and such payment may exceed our actual tax benefits or may be accelerated. Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions Geopolitical uncertainty could impact end customer demand and disrupt our supply chain. Downturns or volatility in general economic conditions could harm our business. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our worldwide operations are subject to political, economic and health risks and natural disasters, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property, Technology and Cybersecurity. Improper use of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intellectual property claims or litigation could significantly harm our business. We license certain third-party software that may not be available to us in the future which may delay product development and production or cause us to incur additional expense. Interruptions in information technology systems could adversely affect our business. Security breaches and other cybersecurity incidents could adversely impact our business. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance and Legal Matters If we or our customers fail to comply with a large body of laws and regulations, our business and reputation could be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by product defects and product liability or warranty claims. Significant litigation and stockholder activism could impair our reputation and adversely affect our business. We are subject to export restrictions and laws affecting trade and investments which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Changes in tax rates or laws or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws or our ethics policies could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect our China business. Chinas economic, political and social conditions may change rapidly with little advance notice, which could adversely affect our business. Our China subsidiary may be limited in its ability to make distributions to us. Government control of currency conversion may affect the value of our securities. Failure to comply with certain regulations may subject us or our PRC employees to fines or sanctions. Failure to comply with PRC laws and other obligations regarding data protection could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Financial Reporting, Internal Controls and Being a Public Company We may not be able to timely and effectively implement and maintain