Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The occurrence of one or more of the events or circumstances described in these risk factors, alone or in combination with other events or circumstances, may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, revenue, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects, in which case the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Unless otherwise indicated, reference in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to our business being adversely affected, negatively impacted or harmed will include an adverse effect on, or a negative impact or harm to, our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue or our future prospects. The material and other risks and uncertainties summarized above in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and described below are not intended to be exhaustive and are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including the risks described below. See the section titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Summary of Risks An investment in shares of our Class A common stock and warrants involves substantial risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect the value of your investment. Some of the more significant challenges and risks relating to an investment in our company include, among other things, the following: Risks Related to Our Operations and Industry The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive. Average selling prices in the markets we serve have decreased over time. Much of our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes. The demand for our products depends on the demand for our customers end products. Any downturn in the automotive market could significantly harm our financial results. We depend on third parties to manufacture, assemble, test and/or package our products. 12 Table of Contents We rely on the timely supply of materials that may only be available from a limited number of suppliers. We must develop new products with acceptable profit margins. Strategic backlog and design win pipeline estimations may not result in revenue or profits. Mergers, acquisitions, investments and joint ventures could adversely affect our results of operations. We must effectively manage future growth. We may seek additional capital, which may result in dilution to our stockholders. We may rely on strategic partnerships, joint ventures and alliances for outside of our control. We may not be successful in exiting certain programs or businesses or in restructuring our operations. Disruptions in our relationships with any one of our key customers could adversely affect our business. Conflict minerals disclosure requirements may cause us to incur additional expenses. Our existing and future indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We have historically incurred losses and may continue to incur losses. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure We are dependent upon distributions made by our subsidiaries to make certain payments. We are party to a Tax Receivable Agreement, which requires us to make certain payments. Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions Geopolitical uncertainty could impact end customer demand and disrupt our supply chain. Downturns or volatility in general economic conditions could harm our business. Rising interest rates and higher borrowing costs could impair our ability to raise sufficient capital to capitalize on our business plans. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could harm our business. Political, economic and health risks and natural disasters could harm our business. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our worldwide operations are subject to political, economic and health risks and natural disasters, including the ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property, Technology and Cybersecurity. We may not be able to protect our proprietary intellectual property against improper use. Intellectual property claims or litigation could significantly harm our business. We rely on certain third-party software that may not be available to us in the future. Interruptions in information technology systems could adversely affect our business. Security breaches and other cybersecurity incidents could adversely impact our business. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance and Legal Matters We must comply with a large body of laws and regulations. We may be adversely affected by product defects and product liability or warranty claims. Significant litigation could impair our reputation and cause us to incur substantial costs. Securities litigation and stockholder activism could adversely affect our business. We are subject to export restrictions and laws affecting trade and investments. Changes in tax rates or laws or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws or our ethics policies could adversely affect our business. We must comply with environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect our China subsidiary. Chinas economic, political and social conditions may change rapidly with little advance notice. Our China subsidiary may be limited in its ability to make distributions to us. Government control of currency conversion may affect the value of our securities. Failure to comply with certain regulations may subject us or our PRC employees to fines or sanctions. We may be subject to a variety of PRC laws and other obligations regarding data protection. Risks Related to Financial Reporting, Internal Controls and Being a Public Company 13 Table of Contents Inadequate internal controls could result in inaccurate financial reporting. We may not be able to timely and effectively implement and maintain