Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Results of Operations For the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 Revenue For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company generated $-0- in revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company generated $-0- in revenues. Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred operating expenses in the amount of $-0-. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred operating expenses of $-0- Net Loss The company recorded a net operating loss of $-0- for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2010 compared to a net income for the same period in 2009 of $-0-. Liquidity As of December 31, 2010, the Company has no business operations and no cash resources other than that provided by Management. We are dependent upon interim funding provided by Management or an affiliated party to pay professional fees and expenses. Our Management and an affiliated party have agreed to provide funding as may be required to pay for accounting fees and other administrative expenses of the Company until the Company enters into a business combination. The Company would be unable to continue as a going concern without interim financing provided by Management. As of December 31, 2010, we had $0 in cash. As of December 31, 2009, we had $-0- in cash and cash equivalents. 8 If we require additional financing, we cannot predict whether equity or debt financing will become available at terms acceptable to us, if at all. The Company depends upon services provided by Management and an affiliated party to fulfill its filing obligations under the Exchange Act. At present, the Company has no financial resources to pay for such services. On December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 we have had $0 in current assets and $60,010 in current assets, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we had $38,047 in current liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, we had $38,047 in current liabilities. We had no cash flow from operations during the year ended December 31, 2010. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated under the Securities Act of 1934. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we did not have any contractual obligations. Critical Accounting Policies Our significant accounting policies are described in the notes to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, and are included elsewhere in this registration statement. Going Concern The Companys consolidated financial statements have been presented on a going concern basis which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. As more fully described below, the liquidity of the Company has been adversely affected by significant losses from operations. The Company reported a net loss of $-0- for the year ended December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had written-off all its assets and had a working capital deficit and stockholders deficit of $51,344. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern without additional capital contributions. Managements immediate plans are to restructure the Companys existing obligations and attempt to raise additional capital and to acquire income producing oil and gas properties. The continuation of our business is dependent upon us raising additional financial support. The issuance of additional equity securities by us could result in a significant dilution in the equity interests of our current stockholders. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, will increase our liabilities and future cash commitments. Critical Accounting Policies The financial statements and the related notes of our company are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and are expressed in US dollars. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Company regularly evaluates estimates and assumptions related to deferred income tax asset valuation allowances. The Company bases its estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the accrual of costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual results experienced by the Company may differ materially and adversely from the Companys estimates. To the extent there are material differences between the estimates and the actual results, future results of operations will be affected. 9 Recent Accounting Pronouncements The Company has implemented all new accounting pronouncements that are in effect and that may impact its financial statements and does not believe that there are any other new pronouncements that have been issued that might have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. In May 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity (hereinafter SFAS No. 150). SFAS No. 150 establishes standards for classifying and measuring certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity and requires that those instruments be classified as liabilities in statements of financial position. Previously, many of those instruments were classified as equity. SFAS No. 150 is effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003 and otherwise is effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company has not yet determined the impact of the adoption of this statement. In April 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (hereinafter SFAS No. 149). SFAS No. 149 amends and clarifies the accounting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. This statement is effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003 and for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003. The adoption of SFAS No. 149 is not expected to have a material impact on the financial position or results of operations of the Company. In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51 (hereinafter FIN 46). FIN 46 requires certain variable interest entities to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. FIN 46 is effective for all new variable interest entities created or acquired after January 31, 2003. The provisions of FIN 46 must be applied for the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company does not have any entities that require disclosure or new consolidation as a result of adopting the provisions of FIN 46. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure, (SFAS No. 148). SFAS 148 amends SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, to provide alternative methods of transition for an entity that voluntarily changes to the fair value based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation. In addition, it also amends the disclosure provisions of SFAS 123 to require prominent disclosure about the effects on reported results of an entitys accounting policy decisions with respect to stock-based employee compensation. The provisions of the statement are effective for financial statements for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002. Prior to the issuance of SFAS No. 148, the Company adopted the fair value based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation. Thus, the Companys financial reporting will not be significantly effected by SFAS 148. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Exit or Disposal Activities. This statement addresses the recognition, measurement, and reporting of costs associated with exit and disposal activities. SFAS No. 146 is applicable to restructuring activities and costs related to terminating a contract that is not a capital lease and one-time benefit arrangements received by employees who are involuntarily terminated. SFAS No. 146 supersedes EITF Issue No. 94-3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). Under SFAS No. 146 the cost associated with an exit or disposal activity is recognized in the periods in which it is incurred rather than at the date the Company committed to the exit plan. This statement is effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002, with earlier adoption encouraged. Previously issued financial statements will not be restated. The provisions of EITF Issue No. 94-3 will continue to apply for exit plans initiated prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 146.