Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose some or all of your original investment. You should not interpret our disclosure of any of the following risks to imply that such risks have not already materialized. Risk Factors Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those outside of our control, that could cause our actual results to be harmed. These risks include the following: We have experienced rapid growth, operational and strategic expansion, and related impacts to margin and profitability in recent periods. Such historical trends, including growth rates, may not continue in the future. We have a history of losses, and we may be unable to sustain profitability or generate profitable growth in the future. We have a limited history operating our business at its current scale, scope, and complexity in an evolving market and economic environment, which makes it difficult to plan for future operations and strategic initiatives, predict future results, and evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter. If we fail to cost-effectively acquire new customers or increase the engagement of our existing customers, including through effective marketing strategies, our business would be harmed. The success of our business is dependent on our relationships with retailers. The loss of one or more of our retail partners or reduction in their engagement with Instacart could harm our business. We are continuing to build our Instacart Ads offerings. If we fail to grow our advertising revenue, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be negatively impacted. The markets in which we participate are highly and increasingly competitive, with well-capitalized and better-known competitors, some of which are also partners. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and financial prospects would be adversely impacted. If we fail to cost-effectively engage shoppers on Instacart, or attract and retain shoppers, our business could be harmed. Mergers or other strategic transactions by competitors or retailers could weaken our competitive position and adversely affect our business. The failure to achieve increased market acceptance of online grocery shopping and our offerings could seriously harm our business. We expect a number of factors to cause our results of operations and operating cash flows to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. If the contractor status of shoppers who use Instacart is successfully challenged, or if additional requirements are placed on our engagement of independent contractors, we may face adverse business, financial, tax, legal, and other consequences. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline significantly and rapidly. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price at which you purchased them. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have experienced rapid growth, operational and strategic expansion, and related impacts to margin and profitability in prior periods. Such historical trends, including growth rates, may not continue in the future. We have grown rapidly over the last several years. Our GTV increased from $5,144 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 to $30,322 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, a CAGR of 56%, and our revenue increased from $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 to $3,042 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, a CAGR of 94%. Our prior rapid growth has also resulted in increased costs as we expanded our operations to scale our business and address increased customer demand. Our prior rapid growth and related changes to our business and operations have been driven in part by the rapid evolution of the online grocery shopping industry, as well as the other retail categories in which we operate, which may not develop as we expect. In particular, our growth rate was impacted significantly by the increase in demand for online grocery shopping driven primarily by the COVID-19 pandemic, which led to significant demand for our offerings. However, our growth rates have decreased from what we experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent variant outbreaks and may continue to decrease. The growth rates we experienced at and following the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic are not likely to recur, and the increased demand for our offerings and the growth of the online grocery industry as a whole that was generated by the effects of the pandemic has decreased since 2020 and could further decrease from current levels, as the circumstances that accelerated the growth of our business during the pandemic have subsided. For example, many consumers have returned to shop in-store for themselves or changed their online ordering habits, and such changes to consumer behavior may also cause retailers to reduce their engagement with Instacart if they perceive these changes to decrease the economic benefit they derive from partnering with us. Consumer shopping behavior has also been impacted, and may continue to be impacted, by macroeconomic trends, such as inflation and elevated interest rates and any associated decrease in consumer discretionary income. For example, decreases in consumer discretionary income due to inflationary or recessionary economic pressures, as well as the cessation of government aid available during the COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact customer retention and engagement. These macroeconomic factors have also resulted in customers purchasing fewer items per order, which has offset higher grocery prices due to inflation and may decrease average order values if and when prices normalize. Further, we have increased, and may continue to increase, our sales and marketing campaigns and consumer incentive initiatives to continue engaging existing customers and acquire new customers, which may initially reduce our revenue and profitability and may not be successful in growing our revenue or maintaining or increasing profitability. We also expect future trends in our revenue, margin, and profitability to vary in ways that we may not anticipate or predict, including as we experience shifts in revenue mix and customer preferences in fulfillment options, changes in consumer use cases (including as we introduce new use cases), and changes in average order value. These variations may be driven by external factors, including macroeconomic conditions, such as inflation, and our strategic initiatives, such as investments in new technologies and offerings, the focus on increasing GTV from Instacart+ members, and our strategic focus on further scaling our operations to improve our margin and profitability. New public health outbreaks may also result in temporary increases in demand for our offerings that may not be sustained once the outbreak is contained. Further, our margin and profitability may be negatively impacted during such periods if we do not adequately anticipate such demand to cost-effectively address the increase in customer activity, such as through shopper incentives. We also cannot be certain whether we will drive greater engagement from new customers, retailers, or brands or maintain the current level of demand for our offerings over the long term. As a result of the foregoing, our prior growth rates and financial performance during the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent variant outbreaks should not necessarily be considered indicative of our future performance and results of operations. Our metrics, including GTV and revenue, may also decline or fluctuate in the future as a result of other factors, including macroeconomic factors, increasing competition, strategic initiatives, and the maturation of our business, among others. Overall growth of our GTV, revenue, gross margin, and profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: attract new retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers, including through effective pricing of our offerings, and sustain and expand our relationships with existing retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers; accurately forecast our revenue and plan our operating expenses and investments for future growth; successfully compete with other companies that are currently in, or may in the future enter, the markets in which we compete, and respond to developments from these competitors such as pricing changes and the introduction of new services; 15 Table of Contents hire, integrate, and retain talented sales, customer service, engineering, and other personnel; comply with existing and new laws and regulations applicable to our business; successfully expand in existing markets and enter new markets, including new geographies, adjacent retail categories, and new fulfillment methods; increase the adoption of our Instacart+ membership program to drive increased customer engagement; successfully launch new offerings and enhance Instacart and its features and use cases, including in response to new trends or competitive dynamics or the needs of retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers; increase the revenue generated by our Instacart Ads offerings; successfully identify, acquire and integrate, or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our offerings; avoid interruptions or disruptions in our services; provide retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers with high-quality support that meets their needs; effectively manage growth of our infrastructure, personnel, and operations, particularly if our workforce becomes increasingly distributed as a result of our hybrid workforce model, which we refer to as our Flex First workforce model, that permits employees to elect to work remotely on an indefinite basis; effectively manage our costs related to our fulfillment methods; and maintain and enhance our reputation and the value of our brand. As a result, you should not rely on our GTV, revenue growth rate, or other key business metrics for any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. We also expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources to grow our business, and we may fail to allocate our resources in a manner that results in increased GTV or revenue growth or improved margin. In addition, the effectiveness of certain strategies that we have historically relied upon to drive growth in GTV and revenue, such as through attracting new retailers to our platform, have declined and may continue to decline as the scale of our business increases. If our GTV or revenue growth rates decline or our margin is negatively impacted, investors perceptions of our business and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. We have a history of losses, and we may be unable to sustain profitability or generate profitable growth in the future. Although we have generated profit in recent periods, with net income of $428 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 (including a $358 million tax benefit from the release of our valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets in the United States), we have historically experienced significant net losses, including net losses of $73 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. In addition, we experienced a net loss of $1,622 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily as a result of stock-based compensation expense we recognized in connection with the vesting of certain restricted stock units (RSUs) and vesting of restricted stock in connection with our IPO. As of December 31, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $2,635 million. We will need to sustain or increase revenue while managing our costs to sustain or increase profitability. Our ability to generate profit is highly impacted by growth in our diversified revenue streams and our ability to drive operational efficiencies in our business. For example, an important driver of our ability to sustain and increase profitability is the growth of our advertising solutions. The growth rate of our advertising revenue has fluctuated and is expected to continue fluctuating, including due to the adverse effects of unfavorable macroeconomic conditions and fluctuations in our GTV growth rate. Our efforts to maintain and increase our profitability may not succeed due to factors such as evolving consumer behavior trends in grocery shopping, including as the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on demand for online grocery subside, the impacts of future public health outbreaks, customer engagement and retention, changes in our revenue mix and customer, retailer and brand partner fees, the costs associated with complying with evolving regulatory regimes, including costs associated with order fulfillment, collection and credit risks, our ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel, unfavorable macroeconomic conditions, our ability to effectively scale our operations, and the continuing evolution of the online grocery industry, many of which are beyond our control. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to generate profit also depends on our ability to manage our costs. We have expended and expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources to: increase the engagement of retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers; drive adoption of Instacart through marketing and incentives and increase awareness through brand campaigns; enhance Instacart with new offerings, including through partnerships, use cases, including Instacart Health and Instacart Business, fulfillment options, member benefits, such as waived delivery fees, lower service fees, and credit back on eligible pickup orders for Instacart+ members, and functionality, including through strategic investments and expanded technologies, such as Connected Stores; and invest in our operations to continue scaling our business to achieve and sustain long-term efficiencies. These investments may contribute to net losses in the near term. We may discover that these initiatives are more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these expenses or realize the benefits we anticipate. Certain initiatives may also require incremental investments or recurring expenses and may not be accretive to revenue growth, margin, or profitability for a longer time period, if at all. Many of our efforts to increase revenue and manage operating costs are new and unproven given the unique and evolving complexities of our business and the evolving nature of the grocery industry. Any failure to adequately increase revenue or manage operating costs could prevent us from sustaining or increasing profitability. Expansion of our offerings to include new use cases, additional technologies, fulfillment options, additional geographic markets, or retail categories adjacent to grocery, may initially harm our profitability. For example, we have made and may continue to make concessions to retailers that are designed to maximize profitability in the long term but may decrease profitability in the short term. These retailer concessions negatively impact our revenue and financial results and the process for determining and quantifying the impact of these concessions requires judgment and estimates. As a result, the impact of retailer concessions on our financial results may continue into future periods or have higher impacts than we anticipate. We may also incur higher operating expenses as we implement strategic initiatives, including in response to external pressures such as competition, retailer consolidation, and evolving consumer behavior trends in grocery shopping, including as a result of the subsiding effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, our sales and marketing expenses as well as consumer incentive costs have increased and may continue to increase in the near term. Additionally, we may not realize, or there may be limits to, the efficiencies we expect to achieve through our efforts to scale the business, reduce friction in the shopping experience, and optimize costs such as shopper earnings, payment processing, customer and shopper support, and shopper acquisition and onboarding costs. We have expanded gross margin and optimized operating costs through these efficiencies in the past but expect the pace of such expansion to decrease in the future. We will also face greater compliance costs associated with the increased scope of our business and being a public company. In addition, we have granted RSUs and restricted stock to our employees and directors, which vest upon the satisfaction of a service-based vesting condition. Stock-based compensation expense related to these RSUs and other outstanding equity awards will result in increases in our expenses in future periods. We have also expended and may continue to expend substantial funds in connection with the tax withholding and remittance obligations that arise upon the vesting and/or settlement of certain of our RSUs. To satisfy future tax withholding and remittance obligations, we will either (i) withhold shares of our common stock that would otherwise be issued with respect to such RSUs and pay the relevant tax authorities in cash to satisfy such tax obligations or (ii) sell a portion of such shares with a market value equivalent to the tax withholding obligation into the market on the applicable settlement date, with the proceeds of such sales to be delivered to us for us to remit to the relevant taxing authorities. If we implement sell-to-cover to satisfy tax withholding obligations, such sales will not result in the expenditure of additional cash by us to satisfy the tax withholding obligations for RSUs, but will result in more dilution to our stockholders. We may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other factors, including as we expand our business, execute on strategic initiatives, and navigate macroeconomic uncertainty and any future public health concerns or outbreaks, which may result in losses or a failure to generate profitable growth in future periods. As such, due to these factors and others described in this Risk Factors section, we may not be able to sustain profitability or generate profitable growth in the future. If we are unable to sustain or increase profitability, the value of our business and the trading price of our common stock may be negatively impacted. 17 Table of Contents We have a limited history operating our business at its current scale, scope, and complexity in an evolving market and economic environment, which makes it difficult to plan for future operations and strategic initiatives, predict future results, and evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter. We significantly scaled and expanded our business and operations in 2020, 2021, and the first half of 2022, largely in response to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has led to unprecedented usage of our offerings from new and existing customers and significant changes to the online grocery industry. Accordingly, we have limited experience in, and data and results from, operating our business at its current scale, scope, and complexity and in a rapidly evolving market and economic environment. We also have limited data from, and experience operating our business in, the post-COVID-19 environment and cannot fully predict how businesses, consumers, shoppers, or our partners, including retailers and advertisers, will operate in this environment. As a result, our ability to plan for future operations and strategic initiatives, predict future results of operations, and plan for and model future growth in orders, GTV, revenue, expenses and prospects is subject to significant risk and uncertainty as compared to companies with longer and more consistent operating histories and in more stable macroeconomic environments and industries. In particular, we face risks and challenges relating to our ability to, among other things: accurately forecast our orders, GTV and revenue and budget for and manage our expenses; attract new retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers and retain or increase the engagement of existing retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers in a cost-effective manner; comply with existing and new laws and regulations applicable to our business; plan for and manage capital expenditures; anticipate and respond to macroeconomic changes and changes in the markets in which we operate; maintain and enhance the value of our reputation and brand; effectively manage our growth as the market for online grocery shopping continues to evolve; successfully expand our geographic reach; hire, integrate, and retain talented people at all levels of our organization; and successfully maintain and enhance Instacart and our technology infrastructure for retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers. Any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer history operating our business at its current scale, scope, and complexity, operated in a more predictable market or regulatory environment, or had more certainty regarding levels of demand for our offerings. We have limited experience operating our business at its current scale but without the demand levels driven by the COVID-19 pandemic and its variant outbreaks, and our future growth will depend heavily on our ability to successfully execute on our strategic initiatives without these factors. For example, as we continue to expand our business, we have introduced and scaled new features, use cases (such as convenience and prepared meals), fulfillment options (such as pickup and priority), and functionalities in our offerings, and made strategic investments in new technologies and initiatives, such as Connected Stores. We have also invested heavily in Instacart Ads and grew our number of brand partners. In addition, we have recently invested in new strategic initiatives such as Instacart Health and Instacart Business to expand the scope of our business. Our future growth depends on the perceived value of our expanded offerings as a whole to retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers, as well as our ability to balance the effects of various strategic initiatives, including our focus on further scaling our operations to improve our margin and profitability. For example, as we promote Instacart+ to customers to increase customer loyalty and order volume, we may experience lower average order value from such customers. We have limited experience operating this expanded business model and may not be able to accurately predict and plan for the impacts it may have on our growth rates, revenue mix, gross margin and profitability, as well as outside factors that may impact our business model, such as changes in consumer shopping behavior, retailer preferences, competition, and macroeconomic factors. Our limited history and experience operating our current business may also negatively impact our ability to plan strategic investments and initiatives to further expand our business and offerings, including to support our retail partners, customers, shoppers, and brand partners, certain of which may require significant capital expenditures and future operating expenses that may be difficult to forecast. In addition, existing and future operational and strategic initiatives may have lengthy return on investment time horizons, such as brand marketing campaigns and new marketing and consumer awareness strategies. As a result, we will not be able to adequately assess the benefits of such initiatives until we have made substantial investments of time and capital, resulting in high opportunity costs. The online grocery industry and competitive landscape also continue to evolve, which will require us to address shifting competitive pressures and further 18 Table of Contents stresses our ability to plan for operational and strategic initiatives and forecast our future results of operations. We are also devoting significant resources to bolster our capacity and information technology infrastructure, financial and accounting systems and controls, sales and marketing and engineering capabilities, and operations and support infrastructure, as well as to retain, manage, and train employees in geographically dispersed locations to service new and existing customers. We may not successfully accomplish any of these objectives in a timely manner or at all. We are currently operating in a more volatile macroeconomic environment due to inflation, elevated interest rates, instability in the banking system, and other conditions, and we have limited experience operating our business at its current scale in such an environment or in economic recessions. The principal inflationary factors affecting our business are higher prices of products offered by retail partners through Instacart, including due to higher raw material costs, shipping and freight costs, higher fuel prices that are borne by our partners, and reductions in consumer discretionary spending. Higher retailer prices, resulting in increased grocery costs, reduced consumer discretionary spending, and cessation of emergency EBT SNAP benefit allotments and other aid programs offered by government authorities, negatively impact consumer demand for online grocery as consumers return to in-store shopping to save on service and delivery fees and also reduce order frequency, drive lower order volume, and impact average order values. As a result, we have experienced and may continue experiencing lower GTV and orders growth as well as impacts to average order values, which negatively impact our revenue and margin. These reductions in consumer spending power may continue to be offset by the increase in GTV and average order values that commenced in the second half of 2022 due to higher grocery prices as a result of inflation, but this offsetting effect may dissipate if and when grocery prices begin to normalize. These factors and the magnitude of their effects may cause our average order value to continue fluctuating over the near term. In addition, actual or perceived risk of an economic recession has and may continue to result in customers reducing their spend on more premium products, and our brand partners have reduced and may continue to reduce their overall advertising budgets, either of which may harm our revenue and margin. Customers have also reduced and may continue to reduce the number of items purchased overall, which has produced fulfillment efficiencies in the short term but may harm our revenue, margin, and profitability if and when inflationary pressures subside. We may also not be able to fully offset higher costs through operational efficiencies and/or price optimizations, and while certain of our new offerings are focused on value and affordability, these initiatives will not fully offset pricing challenges faced by customers and general negative impacts of inflationary pressures. Increased fuel prices as a result of supply chain, inclement weather, and other macroeconomic factors may also result in fewer shoppers or reduced shopper activity. While we have previously implemented certain shopper incentives in response to these factors, future shopper shortages may require us to reintroduce or further increase shopper incentives to ensure sufficient shoppers are available to meet demand or provide additional consumer incentives or refunds due to shopper delays or incorrect orders, which have historically occurred and reduce our revenue and profitability. An economic recession may exacerbate any of these factors and introduce new challenges to our business, which we may not be able to adequately anticipate and plan given our limited experience operating our business at its current scale. Certain of our longer-term strategic initiatives may also be obstructed or have unintended effects in the event of an economic recession, which we may not be able to predict. You should consider and evaluate our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by growing companies in rapidly evolving markets, in particular, markets that are or could be materially impacted by significant regulatory changes, global pandemics, and economic recessions such as the online grocery industry. If our assumptions regarding the risks and uncertainties that we consider in planning and operating our business are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks and uncertainties successfully, including due to the lack of historical data from and experience in operating our business at its current scale, scope, and complexity, the continued evolution of our business and the online grocery industry, and the subsiding effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on demand for online grocery, or other factors, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to cost-effectively acquire new customers or increase the engagement of our existing customers, including through effective marketing strategies, our business would be harmed. The growth of our business is dependent upon our ability to continue to grow our offerings by cost-effectively increasing our engagement with existing customers and acquiring new customers. If we fail to do so, the value of our offerings will be diminished, and we may have difficulty attracting and engaging retailers and brands. The number of customers and their level of engagement on Instacart may decline materially or fluctuate as a result of many factors, including, among other things: dissatisfaction with the operation of, or pricing on, Instacart, including our customer support services; 19 Table of Contents the actual or perceived quality of service provided by shoppers, such as picking the wrong item, making a poor substitution for out of stock items, failing to deliver items on a timely basis or at all, or customers having negative experiences in their interactions with shoppers, particularly during demand surges; macroeconomic uncertainty, inflation, elevated interest rates, supply chain challenges, cessation of government aid available during the COVID-19 pandemic, and actual or perceived risk of economic recession; cost of using Instacart, including customer fees, compared to in-store shopping or other alternatives; the actual or perceived quality of service, quality, pricing, and availability of products provided by retailers; the breadth and variety of retailers that are available to customers on Instacart, including retailers with whom we have a limited or informal arrangement for availability on Instacart; future public health outbreaks, or a future outbreak of disease or similar public health concern, as well as a return to pre-COVID shopping behavior; negative publicity related to our brand, including as a result of safety incidents and other events; actual or perceived public policy positions; failure to maintain good relationships with shoppers resulting in fewer shoppers available for customers, particularly during peak demand; or dissatisfaction with the user experience on our platform, new and current offerings, or changes we make to our offerings. Although we believe that many customers originate from word-of-mouth customer acquisition and other non-paid referrals, we expect to continue to expend resources for customer acquisition and engagement, including through offering discounts and running promotions, all of which could impact our overall profitability. We have experienced and may continue to experience decreases in new customer acquisition rates and customer cohort retention, particularly among our customer cohorts acquired during the COVID-19 pandemic and variant outbreaks, which have negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact GTV and orders. These decreases are due to a variety of factors, including, to a large extent, the subsiding impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and variant outbreaks on demand for online grocery as well as macroeconomic uncertainty, actual or perceived risks of economic recession, cessation of government aid, and inflation. Other factors may include the increasing initial size of our customer cohorts as our business scales and the increasing demographic diversity of our customer base. As a result, we have increased and expect to continue to increase our customer acquisition spend, including incentives, paid marketing, and brand marketing campaigns to acquire new customers and increase the engagement of our existing customers, which may harm our margin and profitability and our efforts to drive efficiencies in our operating expenses. If we are not successful in our marketing efforts, we may not be able to retain our existing customers or convert first-time customers, including those using consumer incentives such as discount promotions, into customers who regularly use and engage with our offerings. We may also fail to achieve or maintain sufficient customer engagement with our platform due to inflationary or recessionary economic pressures that result in decreases in consumer discretionary income, particularly as government aid provided in connection with the pandemic ends, as well as other shifts in consumer shopping behaviors. As the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and its variants subside, including the cessation of government aid, it is increasingly important to our business and our ability to grow for consumers to perceive long-term value from Instacart versus in-store shopping or less costly alternatives, particularly for lower income consumers. Further, we may not be able to accurately assess the effectiveness of our marketing campaigns and strategies in acquiring new customers or increasing existing customer engagement for several periods. The effectiveness of our marketing strategies may also be obfuscated due to temporary or periodic external factors, such as future public health outbreaks, macroeconomic factors, and changes in the regulatory landscape. Further, we have limited experience designing and conducting large scale brand marketing campaigns and consumer awareness strategies in the context of the evolving online grocery industry and competitive landscape and shifting consumer preferences. Failure to effectively design and conduct such campaigns and strategies may negatively impact our ability to acquire new customers and increase engagement with existing customers, which would harm our revenue growth and business. Even if we are successful in attracting new customers or reengaging customers that have stopped using Instacart, such customers may have overall decreased engagement with Instacart or total spend, including due to macroeconomic factors such as higher inflation, a shift toward lower GTV or margin use cases such as convenience or pickup orders, and the subsiding effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Consumers also have different grocery needs and preferences depending on demographics, and these priorities may shift as they age. We face heavy competition for consumers in certain demographics, including those in younger age groups who prioritize use cases, features, and fulfillment options that are different from customers in older age groups, such as convenience and specific product categories, as well as those in different income groups who may prioritize value over convenience or selection. If we do not successfully address the current and future needs of consumers in 20 Table of Contents different demographics, primarily certain age and income groups, including through brand marketing campaigns and introduction and promotion of relevant use cases, features, fulfillment options, and other functionalities, we may be unable to attract new customers or increase engagement with existing customers. In addition, we may also experience increased customer churn, including to competitors, which would harm our business. Many customers initially access Instacart to take advantage of certain promotions, such as discounts and other reduced fees. We strive to demonstrate the value of our offerings to such customers, thereby encouraging them to access Instacart regularly or subscribe to Instacart+, through prompts, notifications, and reduced fees or time-limited trials of Instacart+ and other offerings. However, these customers may be lower intent users of Instacart with reduced engagement compared to customers that we acquire organically, may never convert to paying Instacart+ members, or may discontinue using Instacart after they take advantage of our promotions. Further, our initiatives to retain customers, such as encouraging them to subscribe to Instacart+ or providing additional use cases and fulfillment options, may result in negative impacts to other metrics. For example, an increase in Instacart+ orders, changes in product categories shopped, reduced spend on more premium or discretionary products, or a shift toward convenience, priority, or rapid delivery orders, may result in a decrease in average order value. Such shifts may also negatively impact certain retailers and brands actual or perceived benefit from engaging with Instacart. We may also fail to retain customers, or experience reduced demand for our services, due to negative impacts to our reputation and brand, including due to complaints and negative publicity about us, our offerings, or our competitors, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents. For example, if we are unable to increase shopper availability during demand surges, including due to inclement weather or future public health outbreaks, customers may experience delays in receiving orders or incorrect order fulfillment, which may harm our brand and reputation. In addition, inventory shortages at our retail partners stores, which are not within our control, may also negatively impact consumers perception of our offerings. In particular, disruptions in the global supply chain, including those resulting from labor shortages, closures of manufacturing facilities, transportation restrictions and limitations, war and international conflicts, and increased demand for certain consumer products, have limited, and may continue to limit, the ability of our retail partners to obtain products, maintain stock of such products in a timely and cost-efficient manner, and otherwise respond to consumer demands. Although we do not carry product inventory, and as a result, we are not directly impacted by supply chain disruptions, product shortages have resulted in, and may continue to result in, higher rates of out of stock items and delivery delays by shoppers, which have resulted in, and may continue to result in, more customer cancellations and redeliveries and overall customer dissatisfaction. We regularly provide potentially dissatisfied customers with appeasement credits and refunds as well as incentives for future orders, which measures are intended to counteract any reputational harm and maintain customer satisfaction but are accounted for as direct reductions to our transaction revenue. These negative impacts to our revenue have harmed, and may continue to harm, our margin and results of operations, and the related customer dissatisfaction negatively impacts customer retention and engagement as well as our ability to continue growing our orders, GTV and Instacart+ adoption. These negative impacts particularly harm our ability to engage with and retain customers in demographic groups that are historically less prevalent on Instacart, such as lower income customers, who may attribute less value to Instacart compared to alternatives due to these negative impacts. Efforts to reduce the overall costs associated with these appeasement credits and refunds, including by reducing appeasement credits and refunds generally, may also create reputational harm and impact our ability to attract or retain customers. Failure to retain existing customers or acquire new customers may also harm our relationships and commercial arrangements with retailers and brands as well as our ability to attract new retailer and brand partners. Past and future increases in the fees that we charge our customers may also reduce overall engagement by our customers or negatively impact new customer acquisition. If we are not able to continue to expand our customer base or fail to retain or drive greater engagement of customers or increase demand for our full-price or paid services, such as Instacart+, while balancing the interests of other constituents on Instacart, our revenue may grow slower than expected or decline, and our margin may be negatively impacted. The success of our business is dependent on our relationships with retailers. The loss of one or more of our retail partners or reduction in their engagement with Instacart could harm our business. In order to attract and expand our relationships with consumers, brands, and shoppers, we must attract new retailers and maintain our relationships with existing retailers. Consumers have strong preferences for their favorite retailers due to the trust these brands have created over generations, and our ability to increase consumer and brand adoption of Instacart depends on our ability to maintain our retail partners and maintain or increase their adoption of our offerings. Our ability to attract and retain retailers depends on our ability to generate revenue for them. Retailers will not continue to do business with us if they do not believe that partnering with Instacart will generate a competitive return relative to other alternatives, including from our competitors. Retailers have in the past chosen, and could continue to 21 Table of Contents choose, to partner with other online grocery platforms (exclusively or otherwise) or develop or acquire their own online grocery platforms, in either case in a specific geographic market or overall. Retailers may also choose to develop, acquire, or partner with other companies (exclusively or otherwise) for access to products and offerings for specific use cases, fulfillment options, features, or technologies, such as brand advertising and retail media platforms, prepared meals, shopping cart or checkout technologies, and others. Our future growth depends in part on our ability to not only engage new retailers but also to retain and expand existing retailer engagement with Instacart. However, retailers may decrease their engagement with Instacart based on factors which may not be within our control or whose impacts are difficult to predict. In particular, macroeconomic effects such as supply shortages and inflation have resulted in fluctuations in consumer shopping behaviors and preferences. For example, decreases in consumer discretionary income due to inflationary or recessionary economic pressures, as well as the cessation of government aid available during the COVID-19 pandemic, have impacted and may continue to impact average order values, have resulted in and may continue to result in decreased customer retention and engagement, and have reduced and may continue to reduce demand for premium or discretionary grocery purchases, which in each case may provide for less favorable economics for certain of our retail partners, including if we decide to increase fees as a result. An increase in retailer operating costs, or other deterioration in the financial condition of retailers, whether due to macroeconomic conditions (such as inflation) or otherwise, could cause retailers to raise prices, renegotiate contract terms, or cease operations, which we expect may influence our retailer fee terms. Further, as we expand our own offerings, changes in the mix of customer engagement with our existing and new use cases, fulfillment options, features, and technologies, as well as any changes in online shopping behaviors, may also result in a decrease in engagement for certain retailers, due to less favorable economics or changes in retailers strategic focus. We may not be able to accurately predict the extent of the impact of the factors above on our business and growth initiatives and resulting new trends in retailer strategies and preferences, including due to our limited experience in operating our business at its current scale, scope, and complexity and limited historical data regarding impacts of these factors, which may harm our revenue growth, margin, and results of operations. We enter into services agreements with our retail partners that provide for service fees in exchange for providing access to our technology solution. We recognize revenue as a percentage of the total purchase value from the sale of goods, a per transaction fee, the difference in price between amounts charged to customers for goods and the actual settlement price to the retailer for the goods, a license fee for the use of our technology platform, or a combination thereof. Payment by retailers is generally due immediately to 45 days upon receipt of invoice. Retailers may decide to not renew their agreements or ask to modify their agreement terms in a cost-prohibitive or strategically detrimental manner when their agreements are up for renewal, including in the near term, due to factors such as macroeconomic uncertainty, the impact of future public health outbreaks, dissatisfaction with existing or proposed terms in their service agreements, changes in consumer shopping behavior and preferences on Instacart and among our use cases, fulfillment options, and other offerings. For example, we have modified, and may need to modify in the future, retailer fee arrangements to attract and retain retailers, modify payment processing arrangements, or make other changes that reduce our transaction revenue, in each case due to competition, retailer business downturns, lower average order values, and other factors. Retailers have in the past shifted away from exclusive arrangements with us for various reasons, including to partner with other or additional online grocery platforms, and additional retailers may decide to shift away from such arrangements in the future. Our inability to maintain our relationships with retailers on terms consistent with or better than those already in place and that are otherwise favorable to us could increase competitive pressure, impact grocery product and/or offering pricing, and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Retailer consolidation may also result in a decrease in or cessation of engagement with Instacart, or result in Instacart receiving less favorable contract terms with the consolidated entity. Retailers could also experience downturns or fail, including due to macroeconomic pressures, fail to adopt additional offerings or fulfillment methods or fail to launch or utilize our offerings in the manner and timing that we expect, or cease using Instacart altogether for many reasons. The grocery industry has traditionally been slow to adopt new technologies, fulfillment options, and online enablement in general, including due to lack of confidence in the online grocery industry, preference for in-store shopping due to resulting organic shopping behaviors, or general resistance to adopting Instacart, and is typically characterized by comparatively lower margin and high cash needs. As a result, we have at times experienced, and may continue to experience, slower adoption and implementation of our offerings by our retail partners as well as retailer turnover. If we lack a sufficient variety and supply of retailers, or lack access to the most popular retailers, such that Instacart becomes less appealing to consumers and brands, our business may be harmed. We currently generate significant GTV and revenue from a small number of retailers. Our top three retailers accounted for approximately 43% of our GTV for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023. While GTV and revenue from our largest retail partners may decrease as a percent of our total GTV and revenue over time as we generate more GTV and revenue from other retailers, we believe that GTV and revenue from our largest retailers will continue to account for a significant portion of our GTV and revenue for the foreseeable future. If any of these retailers were to suspend, limit, or 22 Table of Contents cease their operations or otherwise terminate their relationships with us, the attractiveness of Instacart to consumers and brands could be materially and adversely affected. We are continuing to build our Instacart Ads offerings. If we fail to grow our advertising revenue, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be negatively impacted. We are continuing to build, grow and scale our Instacart Ads offerings and our advertising revenue model. Our agreements with brand partners provide that service fees are paid for continually promoting a brand during the duration of the term applicable to a given advertising campaign. Contracts applicable to a given advertising campaign are typically less than one year in duration. We recognize revenue in the amount that we have the right to invoice as advertising services are rendered, which occurs upon delivery of clicks for Sponsored Product ads, upon delivery of impressions, or over the contract term on a fixed fee basis for display ads, or upon redemption of coupons. Payment for our advertising offerings is generally due 30 to 90 days upon receipt of invoice. Although we have significantly grown our advertising and other revenue and launched a number of new advertising capabilities in recent years, we are still optimizing and refining the execution of our growth strategy for our Instacart Ads offerings and face certain challenges associated with scaling such newer offerings. As such, there is no assurance that this advertising revenue model will continue to be successful or that we will generate increasing advertising revenue, and the pace of expansion of our Ads offerings may fluctuate. To sustain or increase our advertising revenue, we must attract new brands and encourage existing brands to maintain or increase their advertising spend on Instacart given we do not typically have long-term commitments from brands. To do this, we must expand the number of markets where we offer advertising, attract new retailers and expand our relationships with existing retailers, acquire new customers and increase the engagement of existing customers, and increase the breadth and functionality of our advertising products to create more value for our brand partners, including new advertising formats, new measurement tools, increased brand awareness, and other capabilities to deliver attractive return on investment to brand partners. If we are unable or choose not to expand our advertising markets, develop or pursue innovative advertising models and offerings, or expand our relationships with more retailers, or if we are unable to acquire new customers or increase the engagement of existing customers, we may not be able to successfully grow our advertising and other revenue. In addition, our advertising and other investment rate may fluctuate, particularly during periods of acceleration in our GTV growth and if we generate more GTV growth from sources where we do not provide advertising, such as retailers owned and operated online storefronts, such as those utilizing Instacart API that do not partner with Carrot Ads. Changes to our advertising policies and privacy, data security, and data protection practices, laws, legislation, or regulations, or the regulatory enforcement thereof, may affect the products that we are able to provide to brands, which could harm our business. Actions by operating system platform providers or application stores such as Apple or Google may affect our offerings or services or how we collect, use, and share data from end-user devices in connection with Instacart Ads. For example, Apple implemented a requirement for applications using its mobile operating system, iOS, to affirmatively (on an opt-in basis) obtain an end users permission to track user activity across apps or websites or access users device advertising identifiers for advertising and advertising measurement purposes, as well as other restrictions. In addition, Google has announced that it will cease support for advertising cookies that permit the tracking of users across sites and applications and instead will introduce new advertising targeting solutions from its Privacy Sandbox. The long-term impact of these and other privacy and regulatory changes remains uncertain and may harm our growth, business, and profitability. In addition, expenditures by brands tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions have also adversely affected the demand for advertising and caused brands to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising. For example, we have seen and may continue to see reduced demand for advertising from brands that are exercising caution with their spending budgets and either slowing or reducing their campaigns due to, among other things, macroeconomic uncertainty, including from inflation, elevated interest rates, global supply chain disruptions, labor shortages, geopolitical conflicts including the war in Ukraine and conflicts in the Middle East, changing consumer preferences, and reduced consumer confidence. These factors have had a negative impact on our advertising revenue, and such impact is expected to continue in future periods. These factors may also negatively impact our ability to forecast our advertising revenue as the extent of the ongoing impact of these macroeconomic factors on our business and on global economic activity generally is uncertain and may continue to adversely affect our business, operations, and financial results. In addition, impacts to brand partner spend as a result of decreases in our GTV growth, along with the timing of adoption of new advertising formats and offerings, have resulted and may continue to result in reductions in the growth of brand partner digital marketing spend on Instacart and related decreases in advertising and other revenue growth in future periods. Our ability to sustain or increase profitability depends in part on our advertising revenue, and failure to maintain or grow our advertising revenue could harm our prospects, business, financial condition, and results 23 Table of Contents of operations, as well as impact our ability to strategically lower fees and invest in larger marketing campaigns, new offerings, and select geographic expansions. The markets in which we participate are highly and increasingly competitive, with well-capitalized and better-known competitors, some of which are also partners. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and financial prospects would be adversely impacted. The markets in which we compete are evolving rapidly and are highly competitive with increasing competitive pressure. Our business is complex and encompasses a number of offering types and fulfillment methods. With respect to Instacart Marketplace, our current and potential competitors include, but are not limited to: (i) existing and well-established online grocery or shopping alternatives, including digital-first platforms, such as Amazon and Thrive Market, (ii) brick-and-mortar retailers that have their own digital and fulfillment offerings, such as Target and Walmart, some of which decide to partner with Instacart to complement their own offerings, (iii) companies that provide eCommerce and fulfillment services for third parties, including retailers, whether online or offline, such as DoorDash, Shipt (acquired by Target), and Uber Eats, (iv) digital-first platforms entering the grocery market by owning inventory, including DashMart (owned by DoorDash), Fresh Direct (owned by Getir), Getir, and Gopuff, which may include existing retailers on Instacart, which could eventually eliminate their need to partner with us or limit their use of Instacart Marketplace, (v) companies that provide eCommerce and fulfillment services that focus on discrete categories of products, such as alcohol or prescription delivery, including Alto Pharmacy, and (vi) companies that offer direct to consumer ingredient or meal offerings, such as Blue Apron or Misfits Market, some of which may partner with Instacart to complement their own offerings. Most consumers currently choose to shop for themselves at brick-and-mortar grocery stores, regardless of whether we partner with the retailers that operate these stores. Also, the cost to switch between providers of online grocery shopping is low for consumers, and consumers within various demographics have a propensity to shift to the lowest-cost or highest-quality provider and may use more than one delivery platform. With respect to Instacart Enterprise Platform, our current and potential competitors include, but are not limited to: (i) companies that are focused on the online grocery enterprise services industry, as well as larger enterprise software companies that have products and services that provide retailers with some of the benefits we offer through Instacart Enterprise Platform, (ii) micro-fulfillment or automated warehouse providers that support grocery retailers owned and operated offerings, such as Ocado, and (iii) existing and potential retailers on Instacart who develop or may in the future develop their own enterprise eCommerce system. In addition, our competitors include companies that provide point solutions for individual components of Instacarts eCommerce offering such as picking technology and retail media network solutions. Our competitors may also make acquisitions or establish cooperative or other strategic relationships among themselves or with others, including retailers. While there may be costs to switch between enterprise products, retailers may shift to the platform that offers the lowest service fee for their products and provides the highest volume of orders, or build their own. Our Instacart Enterprise Platform also includes in-store technology offerings, including Caper Carts, Scan & Pay, Lists, Carrot Tags and other in-store applications, which face competition from other retailer technology solution providers, such as Veeve. With respect to Instacart Ads, our current and potential competitors include, but are not limited to: (i) third-party platforms that assist retailers with monetization of their digital offerings for consumers, such as CitrusAd (acquired by Publicis Groupe), Criteo, and Quotient, (ii) first-party retailer-owned solutions that provide online advertising opportunities to brands on their owned and operated domains, such as Amazon, Kroger, Target, Walmart, and others, some of which are also retailers on Instacart, (iii) companies that provide eCommerce and fulfillment services for third parties, including retailers, which currently offer or may in the future offer advertising products, such as DoorDash and Uber Eats, and (iv) companies that offer established online advertising products that are not specifically limited to the grocery industry, such as those offered by Amazon, Google, Meta, and Snap. We also compete for shoppers with many of the same companies with which we compete for customers, as well as companies in industries unrelated to ours that offer personal task-based services. The majority of shoppers do not shop on Instacart as their primary occupation or source of income. As such, a shopper, or someone considering to be a shopper, weighs that opportunity against others, such as traditional employment, personal task-based services, school, personal time, or other options in the labor market. Because switching costs are low, shoppers may shift to another platform that has higher, or is perceived to have higher, earnings potential. Further, while we work to expand further in the United States and Canada and potentially enter international markets, and introduce new offerings across a range of industries, many of our competitors remain focused on a limited number of 24 Table of Contents products or on a narrow geographic scope, allowing them to develop specialized expertise and employ resources in a more targeted manner than we do. As we and our competitors introduce new offerings, and as existing offerings evolve, we expect to become subject to additional competition. If we are unable to offer comparable or superior offerings, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, our competitors may adopt certain of our features, or may adopt innovations that consumers value more highly than ours, which would render our offerings less attractive or reduce our ability to differentiate our offerings. Many of our competitors are well-capitalized and are able to offer discounted or free services, shopper incentives, consumer discounts and promotions, innovative products and offerings, and alternative pricing models, which may be more attractive to retailers, consumers, brands, or shoppers than those that we offer. In addition, we may not be able to effectively compete with service offerings from vertically integrated competitors, such as Amazon or Gopuff, which control both the brick-and-mortar retailer and online fulfillment technology. Certain brick-and-mortar retailers that have their own digital offering, such as Walmart, also have significant size, scale, geographic, and customer base advantages, which may allow them to grow online GTV or capture increasing share of the online grocery market or advertising budgets more effectively and at a faster rate than us. Competitors may also offer fulfillment options from our retail partners, despite having no formal engagement with such retailers. Further, some of our current or potential competitors have, and may in the future continue to have, greater resources and access to larger consumer and shopper bases in a particular geographic area. In addition, our competitors in certain geographies enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater brand recognition, longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets, better localized knowledge, and/or fewer regulatory challenges. Smaller competitors may be more nimble at anticipating and meeting changing market dynamics and new entrants to online grocery are able to initially grow grocery sales at a faster rate due to their smaller scale, which has attracted advertising budget to certain of these competitors. As a result, such competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than us in such markets to new or changing opportunities, technologies, consumer preferences, regulations, or standards, which may render our offerings less attractive. In addition, future competitors may share in the effective benefit of any regulatory or governmental approvals and litigation victories we may achieve, without having to incur the costs we have incurred to obtain such benefits. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. Our inability to compete effectively would have an adverse effect on our ability to acquire new retailers, customers, and brand partners or increase the engagement of our existing retailers, customers, and brand partners, or would otherwise harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Third parties may also gather, collect, or infer sensitive information about us from public sources, data brokers, or other means that reveals competitively sensitive details about our organization and could be used to undermine our competitive advantage or market position. If we fail to cost-effectively engage shoppers on Instacart, or attract and retain shoppers, our business could be harmed. Shoppers pick and deliver goods to customers on Instacart. We enter into agreements with shoppers for them to provide fulfillment services to customers through Instacart and our technology. Our agreements with shoppers generally remain in effect until terminated by the shopper or by us. Shoppers may generally terminate their agreements with us at any time by providing us written notice and such agreements do not provide for any exclusivity. If there are not enough shoppers on Instacart, customer orders may be late, may go unfulfilled, or may be incorrectly fulfilled, which would have a negative effect on those impacted customers and retailers and consequently on our business. If there are too many shoppers on Instacart, there may be an insufficient number of customers placing orders to keep shoppers occupied, engaged, and satisfied with their earnings potential on Instacart. If we are unable to attract shoppers on favorable terms or increase utilization of Instacart by existing shoppers, if we lose shoppers on Instacart, or if shoppers determine it is no longer economically worthwhile to provide services on Instacart due to factors that may be beyond our control, including the costs of gasoline, vehicles, or insurance, changes in consumer behaviors in grocery shopping (such as smaller order sizes), actual or perceived economic advantages of providing services with other companies that engage independent contractors, including our competitors, our growth objectives and our business and prospects could be seriously harmed. The number of shoppers on Instacart could decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including shoppers choosing not to provide their services through Instacart as a result of being dissatisfied with their earnings potential, our pay model or changes to our pay model, changes to the terms of our independent contractor agreement, shopper incentives, our retail partners, having a poor experience on Instacart, or deciding to pursue other work opportunities. For example, shoppers may prefer to provide services through other companies that engage independent contractors if these companies provide benefits such as insurance or if shoppers simply prefer other app-based work opportunities, such as passenger 25 Table of Contents transportation or restaurant delivery, for non-economic reasons. Many shoppers provide services part-time and have other independent contracting work or employment. Factors outside of our control, including macroeconomic factors, and improvements in labor markets, may cause shoppers to cease providing services on Instacart and become employees elsewhere. Shopper dissatisfaction has in the past resulted in shopper protests, coordinated shopper work stoppages, shoppers choosing not to provide their services through Instacart, and negative press. Any protests, work stoppages or refusals to provide services may result in interruptions to our business or negative publicity and may otherwise harm our business and reputation. While we have implemented strategic initiatives and commitments to bolster our reputation with shoppers in the past, and intend to continue implementing such initiatives and commitments in the future, there can be no assurance that these will be effective to retain shoppers and maintain or improve our reputation with shoppers. From time to time, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, shopper shortages, often due to factors that are not within our control and which may be difficult to predict. We provide shoppers with significant flexibility in when, where, and how they wish to shop. Shoppers are also permitted to provide services on other app-based platforms. To the extent that we experience shopper shortages, we may need to provide or increase incentives to shoppers in order to attract them to Instacart, which would negatively impact our financial results. Our expectations and predictions for shopper needs and preferences may also be inaccurate or incomplete, including due to a lack of historical data for our current scale and scope of operations or due to consumer demand surges as a result of any future public health outbreaks. Under these circumstances, we may not be able to attract enough shoppers to fulfill orders in a timely manner even with shopper incentives. Consequently, if shopper shortages lead to the inability of customers to place orders through Instacart or to delayed or incorrect orders, we may lose customers to another online grocery platform or to other modes of shopping, particularly customers in certain demographic groups who have historically been less prevalent users of Instacart and are more difficult to engage or retain, which would harm our growth, profitability, and results of operations. Finally, the loss of customer orders due to a lack of shoppers to fulfill them or due to incorrect order fulfillment may reduce the perceived value of our offerings to retailers, who may in turn leave Instacart. In addition, authorities have passed laws or adopted regulations, and may continue to do so in the future, requiring shoppers in the applicable jurisdiction to undergo a materially different type of qualification, training, licensure, screening, or background check process, which could be costly and time-consuming. These laws have also required us to, or may in the future require us to, fix minimum levels of compensation and provide certain benefits for shoppers, disclose additional details about orders, prices, and shopper earnings, and handle shopper account deactivation in a prescribed manner, which could force us to create new administrative processes and negatively affect our ability to attract and retain retailers, customers, or shoppers, as well as require us to share competitively sensitive information that may cause harm to our business. Court decisions interpreting or otherwise affecting such laws regarding shopper classification or shopper pay and benefits may also negatively affect our ability to attract and retain retailers, customers, or shoppers. Even if not costly or time-consuming, such changes could reduce the number of shoppers in those markets or extend the time required to recruit new shoppers to Instacart, which could adversely impact our growth, business, and results of operations. Often, we are forced to balance tradeoffs between the satisfaction of various constituents on Instacart, as a change that one category views as positive may be viewed as negative to another category. For example, we take certain measures that are designed to protect against fraud, help increase safety, and prevent privacy and security breaches, such as imposing certain qualifications for shoppers and terminating access to Instacart for shoppers with reported incidents, that may be popular with consumers but may also damage our relationships with shoppers or discourage or diminish their use of Instacart. Certain measures we take to incentivize shoppers, such as smaller windows for reducing tips after an order is complete, may be popular with shoppers but may also be viewed negatively by consumers who wish to have more flexibility over tipping. Further, increased shopper flexibility in when, where, and how to shop may result in shopper shortages during periods of peak demand, which may cause frustration with retailers and customers. If we do not adequately balance the tradeoffs among the various constituents on Instacart and continuously assess such tradeoffs in the context of prevailing market and competitive factors, our business may be harmed. Mergers or other strategic transactions by competitors or retailers could weaken our competitive position and adversely affect our business. If one or more competitors or retailers were to merge, acquire, or partner with another competitor or retailer, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. For example, Uber acquired Postmates and Cornershop in 2020, both of which are competitors. Consolidation amongst major retail partners, such as the pending merger between Albertsons and Kroger, could impact contractual negotiations with such retail partners, result in lower utilization of our products, or lead ultimately to termination of existing retailer engagements. In addition, our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with current or future retailers, brands, and other 26 Table of Contents parties with whom we have relationships, which could limit our ability to promote our offerings to those retailers and reduce our number of customers. As a result of these and future potential acquisitions, current and future retailers may begin working more closely, or on an exclusive basis, with other competitors with whom they have combined or otherwise established new relationships. Disruptions in our business caused by these events could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The failure to achieve increased market acceptance of online grocery shopping and our offerings could seriously harm our business. The market acceptance of our offerings is critical to our continued success. Historically, consumers and retailers have been slower to adopt online grocery shopping than eCommerce offerings in other industries such as consumer electronics and apparel. Grocery is a complex market, and improving upon the consumer in-store experience through an online platform is difficult due to broad consumer demands on selection, quality, value, and convenience. Grocery shopping habits and related consumer preferences are complex and diverse across and within markets and across demographics and age groups. Changing traditional grocery shopping habits is difficult, and if consumers and retailers do not embrace the transition to online grocery shopping and connected shopping experiences as we expect, our business and operations could be harmed. The amount of influence we may have over these shopping habits and preferences, and the methods at our disposal to exercise such influence (including marketing and incentives), may be limited, and we are dependent on external influences over shopping habits, such as public health incidents and inclement weather, and macroeconomic factors such as inflationary pressures. In particular, shopping habits and preferences vary between younger and older consumers, consumers across different income groups, and among other demographic characteristics, and to be successful, we need to effectively increase market acceptance across all age, income, and other demographically different groups by increasing brand awareness and focusing marketing efforts on relevant habits and preferences. Moreover, even if more consumers begin to shop for groceries online, if we are unable to address their changing needs, or the evolving needs of retailers or brands, and anticipate or respond to market trends and new technologies in a timely and cost-efficient manner, we could experience decreased adoption, increased customer churn and lose the support of retailers and brands, any of which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Demand for our offerings is also affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including macroeconomic conditions, initiatives by retailers to influence shopping behavior, continued market acceptance of our offerings, the timing of development and release of new offerings and features by us, the timing or manner of the adoption of our offerings by retailers and our competitors, technological change, brand recognition, and growth or contraction in our markets. If we fail to achieve increased market acceptance of our offerings, our business could be seriously harmed. We expect a number of factors to cause our results of operations and operating cash flows to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results include: our ability to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan our expenses; macroeconomic pressures, such as inflation and supply chain disruptions; the impact of future public health threats on our business; the subsiding effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on demand for online grocery; revenue and fulfillment option mix shifts as we enhance Instacart with new offerings, use cases, and functionality; timing of the recognition of our deferred revenue; timing of strategic investments and expenditures; fluctuations in operating expenses, including cost of revenue, as we seek to improve efficiencies, comply with changing regulatory requirements, and expand our business, offerings, and technologies; changes to financial accounting standards and the interpretation of those standards, which may affect the way we recognize and report our financial results; the effectiveness of our internal controls; 27 Table of Contents the seasonality of our business; and our ability to collect payments from retailers and brands on a timely basis. The impact of one or more of the foregoing and other factors may cause our results of operations to vary significantly. In particular, we experienced substantial growth stemming from the increased demand for online grocery driven primarily by the COVID-19 pandemic and have also made significant changes to our business, including through scaling our operations to meet the increased demand and implementing new business and product initiatives, which have impacted our expenses and margin. These historical shifts and trends are not necessarily indicative of our future performance and may obscure longer term trends in our business and results of operations. Relatedly, even as the circumstances that accelerated the growth and evolution of our business subside, we may experience sudden periods of high demand and related increased costs due to future public health outbreaks. Our business also continues to be impacted by adverse macroeconomic conditions, such as inflation and supply chain issues. As such, for these and other factors stated above, quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful and should not be unduly relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our working capital and operating cash flows have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate significantly from period to period as a result of new initiatives and the timing of payments made to and/or received from retailers, shoppers, and vendors. In particular, certain transaction types, such as those involving EBT SNAP benefits and alcohol sales, have resulted and may continue to result in longer collection cycles. For example, in the second half of 2021, we experienced longer collection cycles due to the larger volume of EBT SNAP and alcohol transactions. Additionally, we make substantial weekly payments to shoppers on Tuesdays and Sundays for services delivered on Instacart. As a result, we expect our reported cash and cash flows from operating activities to be impacted based on the day of the week of each reporting period. Additionally, due to the timing of funding to a certain payment card issuer, we may experience an increase in short-term liabilities based on the day of the week of each reporting period. Due to this timing, our cash flows from operating activities may not be directly comparable from period to period. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our sales and results of operations. We experience seasonality in both the number of orders and GTV on Instacart, as well as in our advertising and other revenue. We typically see lower levels of order volume in the second quarter and a portion of the third quarter resulting from lower usage of our offerings during the spring and summer months, followed by higher levels of order volume in the second half of the year during the back-to-school period and holiday season. In addition, during periods of inclement weather, the number of available shoppers generally decreases, while the number of orders from customers has typically increased, which may disrupt or obscure typical seasonal trends and make seasonal fluctuations difficult to detect. In addition, our advertising and other revenue has historically been seasonally high in the fourth quarter and seasonally low in the first quarter in a given year as a result of how advertisers deploy their budgets. Seasonality will likely cause fluctuations in our financial results on a quarterly basis. We expect these seasonal trends to become more pronounced over time if our growth slows, although macroeconomic events such as future public health outbreaks may obscure future seasonality trends similar to how the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic made seasonal fluctuations difficult to detect. Moreover, other seasonal trends may develop or these existing seasonal trends may become more extreme, and the existing seasonality and customer and shopper behavior that we experience may change or become more significant, which would contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. If we or the third parties we rely on experience a compromise to the confidentiality, integrity or availability of the systems, or data of our customers, shoppers, partners, or Instacart, we may experience adverse consequences, including but not limited to regulatory investigations or actions, litigation, fines and penalties, disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm, loss of revenue or profits, loss of customers or sales, and other adverse consequences. Operating our business and platform involves the collection, use, storage, transmission, and other processing of sensitive, proprietary, and confidential information, including personal information of customers, shoppers, and personnel, our proprietary and confidential information, and the confidential information of partners including retailers and brands. Security incidents compromising the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of this information or our systems (or those of third parties upon which we rely) could result from a variety of evolving threats including but not limited to cyber-attacks, computer malware (including as a result of advanced persistent threat intrusions), malicious code (such as viruses, worms and ransomware), social engineering (including spear phishing and ransomware attacks), denial-of-service attacks, credential harvesting, credential stuffing, supply-chain attacks, software bugs, server malfunctions, software or hardware failures, efforts by individuals or groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, security vulnerabilities or misconfigurations in the software or systems on which we rely, the malfeasance or error of our personnel (such as through 28 Table of Contents theft or misuse), loss of data or other information technology assets, adware, telecommunications failures, earthquakes, fires, floods, and other similar threats. We rely on a number of third parties to operate our critical business systems and to process confidential and personal information, such as the payment processors that process customer credit card payments, cloud service providers, and employee and customer service centers, including those located in other countries. Our ability to require, monitor and enforce these third parties information security practices is limited. Because third parties provide operational support to our business and process confidential and personal information on our behalf, we could experience materially adverse consequences as a result of cyberattacks or incidents experienced by those providers. Third party and supply chain attacks have increased in frequency and severity and we cannot guarantee that our service providers security or that the security of any partners of our service providers has not been compromised. We also cannot be certain that our contracts with these third parties will allow us to obtain indemnification or recovery from them for data security-related liability that they cause us to incur. Threat actors, nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors now engage, and are expected to continue to engage, in cyber-attacks, including for geopolitical reasons and in connection with military conflicts and operations. Due to the current geopolitical environment, we and the third parties upon which we rely are at heightened risk of these attacks, including cyber-attacks that could materially disrupt our systems and operations, supply chain, and ability to produce, sell, and distribute our goods and services. In particular, severe ransomware attacks are becoming increasingly prevalent and can lead to significant interruptions in our operations, loss of sensitive data and income, reputational harm, and diversion of funds. In addition, remote work has become more common per our Flex First workforce model and has increased risks to our information technology systems and data, as more of our employees utilize network connections, computers, and devices outside our premises or network, including working at home, while in transit and in public locations. For example, technologies in our employees and service providers homes may not be as robust as in our offices and could cause the networks, information systems, applications, and other tools available to employees and service providers to be more limited or less reliable than in our offices. Further, the security systems in place at our employees and service providers homes, or other remote work locations, may be less secure than those used in our offices. There is no guarantee that the privacy, data security, and data protection safeguards we or our service providers have put in place will be comprehensive, or completely implemented, complied with or effective. Additionally, future or past business transactions (such as acquisitions or integrations) have exposed and may in the future expose us to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, as our systems could be negatively affected by vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated entities systems and technologies. Furthermore, we may discover security issues that were not found during due diligence of such acquired or integrated entities, and it may be difficult to integrate companies into our information technology environment and security program. We and certain of our third-party providers regularly experience cyberattacks and other security incidents, and we expect such attacks and incidents to continue in the future in varying degrees. For example, we regularly experience credential stuffing or other types of attacks in which malicious third parties use credentials compromised in data breaches suffered by other companies or otherwise improperly obtain credentials to access shopper or customer accounts on Instacart. While to date no incidents have had a material impact on our operations or financial results, we cannot guarantee that material incidents will not occur in the future. Cybercrime and hacking techniques are constantly evolving (including through the deployment of artificial intelligence), and we or the third parties we work with may be unable to anticipate attempted security breaches, react in a timely manner, or implement adequate preventative measures, particularly given increasing use of hacking techniques designed to circumvent controls, avoid detection, and remove or obfuscate forensic artifacts. Serious cyberattacks and other incidents may result in any or all of the following that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations: loss of customer confidence in the security of Instacart and damage to our brand, reduced demand for our offerings, and serious disruption of normal business operations, material diversion of resources to investigate and remediate incidents, exposure to legal liability, including through litigation (such as class actions), regulatory enforcement, and indemnity obligations. Further, applicable privacy, data security, and data protection obligations may require us to notify relevant stakeholders of certain security incidents. Such disclosures are costly, and the disclosure or the failure to comply with such requirements could lead to adverse consequences, including potential statutory damages under laws such as the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). These risks are expected to increase as we continue to grow and process, store, and transmit increasingly large amounts of data. Our contracts may not contain limitations of liability, and even where they do, there can be no assurance that limitations of liability in our contracts are sufficient to protect us from 29 Table of Contents liabilities, damages, or claims related to our privacy, data security, and data protection obligations. We cannot be sure that our insurance coverage will be adequate or sufficient to protect us from or to mitigate liabilities arising out of our privacy, data security, and data protection practices, that such coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that such coverage will pay future claims. Interruptions or performance problems, including failure to ensure accessibility, associated with our offerings and technology capabilities may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business and future growth prospects depend in part on the ability of our existing and potential customers and shoppers to access our offerings and technology capabilities at any time and within an acceptable amount of time. Instacart is built upon a complex system composed of many interoperating components and incorporates software that is highly extensive. Our software, including open-source software that is incorporated into our code, may now or in the future contain undetected errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities. Some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the code has been released, and we have in the past released, and may in the future release, new software that inadvertently causes interruptions in the availability or functionality of Instacart. Bugs or errors in our software, including open-source software that is incorporated into our code, misconfigurations of our systems, and unintended interactions between systems have in the past and could in the future result in our failure to comply with certain federal, state, or foreign reporting obligations, cause downtime that would impact the availability of our service to retailers, customers, brands, or shoppers, cause incorrect calculations relating to the payments we make to or fees we receive from or charge to retailers, customers, brands, or shoppers, or create vulnerabilities in our systems which bad actors may exploit to perpetrate fraud or otherwise harm our business. We have from time to time found defects or errors in our system and may discover additional defects or errors in the future that could result in platform unavailability or system disruption. In addition, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions, outages, and other performance problems due to a variety of other factors, including infrastructure changes, introductions of new functionality, human errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of customers accessing our offerings and technology capabilities simultaneously, website hosting disruptions, interruptions to business and operations due to malicious actors utilizing bots or other automated means to access Instacart, denial of service attacks, or other security-related incidents. In addition, retailers have experienced these issues, which have impacted the ability of customers and shoppers to place and fulfill orders with those retailers. These events have resulted and may continue to result in losses in revenue including through increased fraud activity and issuing appeasement credits and refunds as well as incentives for future orders to impacted customers. System failures in the future could result in significant losses of revenue, including due to losses of customers or retailers due to perceived weaknesses in our systems and protective measures. In addition, the affected party could seek monetary recourse from us for their losses, and such claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address. Further, in some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems or adequate remedies within an acceptable period of time. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve our performance, especially during peak usage times and as our offerings and technology capabilities become more complex and customer traffic increases. When our offerings and technology capabilities are unavailable or customers or shoppers are unable to access our offerings and technology capabilities within a reasonable amount of time or at all, we have experienced and may in the future experience a loss of retailers, customers, brands, or shoppers, lost or delayed market acceptance of Instacart and our offerings, delays in payment to us by retailers, injury to our reputation and brand, regulatory inquiries, legal claims against us, and the diversion of our resources. In addition, to the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed, and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We also rely on systems, including third-party systems, to deliver incentives and communications to customers and shoppers. Failure to properly configure these systems has previously had a negative impact on our business and may adversely impact our business in the future. If we are not able to continue to introduce new features or offerings successfully and to make enhancements to existing offerings, our ability to grow and operate our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to attract new retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers and increase revenue from existing retailers, customers, and brands depends in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing offerings and to introduce new features or offerings. To grow our business and be competitive, we must develop offerings, features, and functionality that reflect the constantly evolving nature of technology and the needs of retailers, consumers, brands, and shoppers. The success of these and any other enhancements or developments depend on several factors, including their timely introduction and completion, sufficient demand, and cost effectiveness. It is difficult to accurately predict retailer, 30 Table of Contents consumer, brand, or shopper adoption of new features or offerings, and related shifts in consumer shopping behavior, as well as our recent rapid growth and limited experience in operating our business at its current scale, scope, and complexity. Such uncertainty limits our ability to predict our future results of operations and subjects us to a number of challenges, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. If we cannot navigate such uncertainties or are unable to successfully develop new features or offerings or to enhance our existing offerings or otherwise overcome technological challenges and competing technologies to gain market acceptance, then our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our ability to develop new offerings, features, and functionality to meet industry demands is important to remaining attractive to retailers, consumers, brands, and shoppers, and if we fail to continue to successfully innovate, we could lose existing retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers, which could impact our growth and results of operations. We are building and improving machine learning models and other technological capabilities to drive improved customer and shopper experience, as well as efficiencies in our operations, such as optimized payment processing, customer service, shopper acquisition and onboarding, automated key support workflows, and batching, picking, and routing algorithms to help shoppers work more efficiently and with greater accuracy in fulfilling orders. While we expect these technologies to lead to improvements in the performance of our offerings and operations, including inventory prediction and customer traffic prediction and management, any flaws or failures of such technologies could cause interruptions or delays in our service, which may harm our business. For example, failure to accurately collect retailer catalog information, which drives item pricing and availability, or reflect changes to those files in our systems could result in significant losses of revenue. We are increasing our investment in product development and hiring and retaining highly skilled engineering personnel to support these efforts, but such investments may not be effective in maintaining or improving the experience for retailers, customers, or shoppers or provide a positive return on investment. Moreover, we may make these investments and other business decisions that reduce our short-term financial results if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our goals to improve our offerings, which we believe will improve our financial results over the long term. These decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of our stockholders and research analysts covering us and may also not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our growth, business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, technological innovation in the online grocery industry from our competitors or other third parties, such as automation or next-generation fulfillment, could render our offerings less desirable or obsolete. We have incorporated and may continue to incorporate additional artificial intelligence and machine learning (AIML), solutions into our platform, offerings, services, and features, including those based on large language models, and these applications may become more important to our operations or to our future growth over time. We expect to rely on AIML solutions to help drive future growth in our business, but there can be no assurance that we will realize the desired or anticipated benefits from AIML or at all. We may also fail to properly implement or market our AIML solutions. Our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AIML into their products more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, our offerings based on AIML may expose us to additional lawsuits and regulatory investigations and subject us to legal liability as well as brand and reputational harm. For example, if the content, analyses, or recommendations that AIML applications assist in producing are or are alleged to be deficient, inaccurate, or biased, or infringe on third-party intellectual property rights, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. National, state, and local regulators may also consider or adopt comprehensive legal compliance frameworks specifically for AIML, which is a trend that may increase now that the European Commission has proposed the first such framework. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such requirements could have an adverse impact on our business. Additionally, the use of AIML applications has resulted in, and may in the future result in, cybersecurity incidents that implicate the personal data of end users of such applications. Any such cybersecurity incidents related to our use of AIML applications could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. AIML also presents emerging ethical issues and if our use of AIML becomes controversial, we may experience brand or reputational harm. We are making substantial investments to expand our offerings and technologies to capitalize on new and unproven business opportunities and expect to increase such investments in the future. These new ventures are inherently risky, and we may never realize any expected benefits from them. We have made substantial investments to expand our offerings and technologies to capitalize on new and unproven business opportunities, including new fulfillment options, expansion into retail categories outside of grocery, strategic initiatives such as Instacart Health and Instacart Business, the development of hardware products, and automated, AIML technologies. We intend to continue investing significant resources in developing these technologies, tools, initiatives, features, and offerings that we believe will enable our success in new markets or areas of business and/or strengthen our 31 Table of Contents core business. For example, we have expanded our offerings to retailers in categories adjacent to the grocery industry, including alcohol, pharmacy, electronics, beauty, and home improvement. We also launched Connected Stores, a suite of in-store technologies, including artificial intelligence-powered shopping carts and customer checkout solutions, offered to our retail partners. If we do not spend our development budget efficiently or effectively on commercially successful and innovative technologies or ventures, or if we are unable to timely introduce and commercialize such offerings, we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategy. These initiatives also have a high degree of risk, as they involve nascent industries and unproven business strategies and technologies with which we have limited or no prior development or operating experience. Because these initiatives are new, they may involve claims and liabilities, expenses, regulatory challenges, and other risks, some of which we cannot currently anticipate. Certain initiatives may also involve committed incremental investments or payments over long periods of time before they become accretive to our revenue or margin, and if they never become accretive, we may be contractually obligated to make payments or incur expenses in connection with initiatives for an extended period without sufficient, or any, economic or financial benefit. Further, our development efforts with respect to new offerings and technologies could distract management from current operations and divert capital and other resources from our more established offerings and technologies. For example, the design, development, manufacture, and distribution of hardware products produced by Caper is a new line of business for us that will require continued investment in operating expenses, headcount, and executive time and attention. Producing and offering hardware products will also involve new or heightened risks to our business, such as manufacturing and inventory risks resulting from supply chain disruptions, user safety risks and additional expenses resulting from product defects, import and export expenses, and other hardware-related costs. Although we believe these investments will improve our financial results over the long term, they may negatively impact our short-term financial results, which may be inconsistent with the short-term expectations of our stockholders. Moreover, there can be no assurance that retailer, consumer, or brand demand for such initiatives will exist or be sustained at the levels that we anticipate, or that any of these initiatives will gain sufficient traction or market acceptance to generate sufficient revenue to offset any new expenses or liabilities associated with these new investments. It is also possible that offerings developed by others will render any new offerings noncompetitive or obsolete. Even if we are successful in expanding our offerings or technologies to enter new markets or areas of business, regulatory authorities may subject us to new rules or restrictions in response to our innovations that could increase our expenses or prevent us from successfully deriving value from these offerings or technologies. For example, our Instacart Health offering may subject us to rules governing the use and processing of health information, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HIPAA), and regulatory requirements for interacting with health plans, government benefit programs, nonprofits, and other players in the healthcare space. If we do not realize the expected benefits of these investments, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be harmed. Our marketing efforts to help grow our business may not be effective, and failure to effectively develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase and engage our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our offerings. Promoting awareness and driving adoption of our offerings is important to our ability to grow our business, and attracting and engaging new retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers can be costly. Our consumer marketing efforts currently include, without limitation, digital performance marketing that includes search, programmatic, and social; customer relationship management (CRM), based marketing that includes push notifications, text messaging, email marketing, linear television, audio, and shopping ads; and co-marketing efforts with retailers, payment providers, and brands. To drive existing customer reengagement, we also utilize targeted promotions including time-limited free delivery offers and coupons. For shoppers, we reach them primarily through digital performance marketing and through in-app prompts. Our marketing initiatives may become increasingly expensive, and we may fail to generate a meaningful return on these initiatives, if at all. For example, we have incurred increased expenditures on our marketing and consumer incentive initiatives to accelerate the growth of our business, which have and may continue to have an effect on revenue and may harm our profitability in the near term. We also have limited experience conducting broad brand marketing campaigns and other marketing initiatives given the current scale, scope, and complexity of our business. Even if we successfully increase revenue as a result of consumer marketing efforts, it may not offset the additional marketing expenses we incur. Our marketing campaigns may also be long-term endeavors, and we may not be able to accurately assess the success of these campaigns for several periods. If our marketing efforts to help grow our business are not effective, we expect that our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to engage or expand our base of retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers will be impaired and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may suffer. Maintaining and enhancing our reputation as a differentiated and category-defining company is critical to attracting and expanding our relationships with retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers. The successful promotion of our brand and the markets awareness of our offerings will depend on a number of factors, including our marketing efforts, ability to continue to develop our offerings, and ability to successfully differentiate our offerings from competitive offerings. We expect to invest substantial resources to promote and maintain our brand, but there is no guarantee that our brand development strategies will enhance the recognition of our brand or lead to increased sales. The strength of our brand will depend largely on our ability to provide quality services at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased GTV, orders, or revenue, and even if they do, the increases in GTV or orders may not persist and any increases in revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in promoting and maintaining our brand and reputation. In order to protect our brand, we also expend substantial resources to register and defend our trademarks and to prevent others from using the same or substantially similar marks. Despite these efforts, we may not always be successful in protecting our trademarks, and we may suffer dilution, loss of reputation, or other harm to our brand. If our efforts to cost-effectively promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our results of operations and our ability to attract and engage customers, partners, and employees may be adversely affected. Further, even if our brand recognition and customer loyalty increase, this may not yield increased revenue for us. Unfavorable publicity regarding Instacart, shoppers, customer service, or privacy, data security, and data protection practices could also harm our reputation and diminish confidence in, and the use of, our services. Fear of loss of customers or lack of customer adoption due to poor service quality or negative customer or shopper reviews or press may make retailers reluctant to join or remain on Instacart. The same negative network effects could occur as a result of trust and safety or fraud incidents. The loss of customers or retailers due to poor shopper performance or a trust and safety incident caused by a shopper, customer, or third party could harm our business. In addition, negative publicity related to marketing partners or key brands that we have partnered with may damage our reputation, even if the publicity is not directly related to us. If we fail to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand successfully or to maintain loyalty among retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers, or if we incur substantial expenses in unsuccessful attempts to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand, we may fail to attract or increase the engagement of retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may suffer. If we fail to offer high-quality support, our ability to attract and engage customers and shoppers could suffer. Customers and shoppers rely on our support personnel and technologies to resolve issues and realize the full benefits that Instacart provides. High-quality support to both customers and shoppers is also important for the expansion of Instacarts use by our existing customers. The importance of our support function will increase as we expand our business and pursue new customers. We rely in part on support personnel and contractors in countries outside of the United States, and government actions in those countries such as curfews have in the past and could in the future slow down our systems and ability to timely respond to customer and shopper issues. We also rely in part on support technologies such as self-service solutions. Those technologies have in the past and may in the future fail to perform as expected resulting in customer and shopper dissatisfaction. If we do not help customers and shoppers quickly resolve issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to maintain and expand our revenue from existing and new customers could suffer, as well as our reputation with existing or potential customers. Our pricing methodologies are impacted by a number of factors and ultimately may not be successful in attracting and engaging retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers. Future changes to our pricing model could adversely affect our business. Demand for our offerings is highly sensitive to a range of factors, including our strategies relating to the amount of potential earnings required to attract shoppers, incentives paid to shoppers, and the fees we charge retailers, customers, and brands. Many factors, including operating costs, legal and regulatory requirements, constraints or changes, supply chain issues, the price sensitivity of consumers in different income groups or other demographics, inflation, and our current and future competitors pricing and marketing strategies, could significantly affect our pricing strategies. There can be no assurance that we will not be forced, through competition, regulation, or otherwise, to reduce the price of delivery for customers, increase the incentives we pay to shoppers that utilize Instacart, reduce the fees we charge retailers or brands, or increase our marketing and other expenses to attract and increase the engagement of retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers in response to competitive, regulatory, and other external pressures. For example, certain of our competitors offer, or may in the future offer, lower-priced or a broader range of offerings, including subscription offerings for bundled 33 Table of Contents services. We may need to spend significant amounts on marketing and both customer and shopper incentives to deploy innovative and novel pricing and incentive strategies to retain or attract new customers and shoppers. We have launched, and may in the future launch, new pricing strategies and initiatives, such as subscription offerings like Instacart+, and customer or shopper loyalty programs, or modify existing pricing methodologies or pricing models and fulfillment options, due to a variety of reasons, including to address changes in the market for our offerings as competitors introduce new offerings and features or in response to actions taken by our retail partners, or to regulatory or other legal challenges, any of which may not ultimately be successful in attracting and engaging retailers, customers, brands, or shoppers or may negatively impact customer retention and engagement as well as our financial results. We also offer brands and retailers tools and products, including through our Eversight business, to enable them to optimize online pricing and promotions strategies. If these solutions fail to generate improved results for brands and retailer sales, brands and retailers may choose to not use such solutions. If these solutions negatively impact consumer price perception, our brand reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers could be harmed. The increasing complexity of our pricing models and related expansion of our business may also require us to update our internal systems for invoicing retailers or brands or incur costs to remediate errors or disputes in existing invoices. Further, consumers price sensitivity may vary by geographic location, and as we expand, our pricing methodologies may not enable us to compete effectively in these locations. In particular, if we were to continue expanding internationally, we may be required to change our pricing strategies and to adjust to different cultural norms, including with respect to consumer pricing and gratuities. While we do and will attempt to set prices based on our prior operating experience and customer, retailer, brand, and shopper feedback and engagement levels, our assessments may not be accurate or there may be errors in the technology used in our pricing, and we could be underpricing or overpricing our services. In particular, we have limited experience pricing our offerings in the post-COVID-19 environment and at the current scale, scope, and complexity of our business. As a result, our historical data and operating experience may be insufficient to adequately inform our future pricing strategies for changing market environments. In addition, if the services on Instacart change, then we may need to revise our pricing methodologies. Changes to any components of our pricing model may, among other things, result in customer dissatisfaction, lead to a loss of customers on Instacart, and seriously harm our business. If retailers, customers, brands, shoppers, or other third parties using Instacart engage in, or are subject to, criminal, violent, inappropriate, or dangerous activity, it could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are not able to control or predict the actions of retailers, customers, brands, shoppers, and other third parties, either during their use of Instacart or otherwise, and we may be unable to protect or provide a safe environment for constituents on Instacart as a result of criminal, violent, inappropriate, or dangerous actions by any such parties. Such actions have historically resulted, and may in the future result, in injuries, property damage, or loss of life for retailers, customers, brands, shoppers, and other third parties, as applicable, or business interruption, brand and reputational damage, or significant liabilities for us. Certain events, including incidents of criminal behavior, episodes of civil unrest, or the imposition of curfews, may impact retailers, which in turn may impact the ability of shoppers to provide services to customers through Instacart. With respect to shoppers, although we administer certain qualification processes for shoppers on Instacart, including one or more general identification, criminal background, department of motor vehicle, and/or motor vehicle record checks on shoppers through third-party service providers prior to engagement, these qualification processes and background checks may not expose all potentially relevant information and are limited in certain jurisdictions according to national and local laws and availability of records. Moreover, our third-party service providers may fail to conduct such background checks adequately or disclose information that could be relevant to a determination of eligibility. We have in the past received, and we expect to continue to receive, complaints from retailers, customers, shoppers, and other third parties, as well as actual or threatened legal action against us related to shopper, customer, retailer, and other third party conduct. If shoppers or individuals impersonating shoppers or customers engage in criminal activity, fraud, including identity theft, use of stolen or fraudulent credit card data, misconduct, breach our terms of service, or inappropriate conduct or use Instacart as a conduit for criminal activity, or we fail to identify or detect, or experience delays in identifying or detecting such activity or events, our offerings may not be viewed as safe, reliable, or appealing, and we may receive negative press coverage as a result. Such negative public perception of our offerings or brand would adversely impact our brand, reputation, and business. We have in the past experienced, and may experience in the future, inappropriate conduct and criminal activity by certain shoppers or other bad actors, including fraudulent uses of credit cards, social engineering attacks to gain access to customer and shopper accounts, as well as fraudulent use of our payment card programs. This conduct has in the past involved, and may in the future involve, coordinated and complex fraud schemes that are difficult to detect and prevent. Given their complexity, such schemes have in the past persisted, and future schemes may also persist, 34 Table of Contents for lengthy periods prior to detection. As a result of these fraudulent schemes, we have in the past been, and may in the future be, liable for orders facilitated on Instacart with fraudulent credit card transactions, even if the associated financial institution approved the credit card transaction. In addition, even if we are not contractually required to do so, we have historically provided retailers with business concessions for related losses in certain cases and may provide additional concessions as a result of future schemes. These retailer concessions and any liability we otherwise face from such inappropriate or fraudulent conduct negatively impact our revenue and financial results. In addition, the process for quantifying the amount of financial losses from these fraudulent schemes may be lengthy, in part due to their complexity and, in cases where the fraudulent activity occurs through systems controlled by our partners, we may be unable to remediate or prevent this activity in a timely manner or at all due to limitations in, or our ability to, interact with such systems. As a result, the impact of such schemes on our financial results may continue into future periods or have higher impacts to our financial results than we anticipate, even following their termination. Our failure to adequately detect, address, or prevent fraudulent transactions could harm our reputation or brand, result in litigation or regulatory action, result in errors in our financial statements that could result in corrections to or restatements of our historical financial statements, cause delays in the preparation and filing of our periodic reports as well as failures to meet our reporting and other obligations as a public company, and lead to expenses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If other criminal, inappropriate, or other negative incidents occur due to the conduct of retailers, customers, brands, shoppers, or other third parties, our ability to attract retailers, customers, brands, and shoppers may be harmed, and our reputation, business, and financial results could be adversely affected. Public reporting or disclosure of reported safety information, including information about safety incidents reportedly occurring on or related to Instacart, whether generated by us or third parties, such as media or regulators, may adversely impact our business and financial results. Further, we may be subject to claims of significant liability based on traffic accidents, deaths, injuries, or other incidents that are caused by shoppers, customers, or third parties while using Instacart, or even when shoppers, customers, or third parties are not actively using Instacart. On a smaller scale, we may face litigation related to claims by shoppers for the actions of customers or third parties. We carry insurance for such incidents, including automobile liability and general liability insurance, although such policies do not cover all claims to which we are exposed and are not always adequate to indemnify us for all liability. Although shoppers are required to carry their own insurance policies, including automobile insurance, they may fail to acquire adequate coverage or any coverage at all. As a result, we may be subject to liability for incidents involving shoppers that our insurance policies may not cover or the cost of our policies may increase. These incidents may subject us to liability and negative publicity, which would increase our operating costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. Even if these claims do not result in liability, we will incur significant costs in investigating and defending against them and may suffer reputational harm regardless of legal outcomes. As we expand into other products and offerings, this insurance risk will grow. The impact of economic conditions, public health incidents, weather events, and natural catastrophes, including the resulting effect on consumer spending, may harm our business and results of operations. Our results of operations may vary based on the impact of changes in our industry or the economy on us and retailers, consumers, brands, and shoppers. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic had a significant impact on the markets and communities in which we and retailers, consumers, brands, and shoppers operate and resulted in significant growth in demand for our offerings and our business in general over a limited time period. This growth led to significant operational disruptions, such as response delays and outages on our platform shopper shortages. While these effects have subsided, the full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic may continue to impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted. We cannot assure you that these effects will remain reduced in the future, including due to potential new public health outbreaks. We could face further operational disruptions and incur additional expenses in connection with future public health outbreaks, including expenses associated with our health and safety protocols and processes, that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, due to the size, scope, and nature of our operations, which have significantly expanded since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the expenses we may need to incur to protect the health and safety of shoppers and certain of our employees in the event of future public health outbreaks may be higher than similar expenses that companies in other industries may need to incur. In addition, negative conditions in the general economy both in the United States and abroad, including conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic or other public health threats, the military conflict involving Russia and Ukraine, conflicts in the Middle East, and economic sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus, bank failures, changes in gross domestic product growth, financial and credit market fluctuations, international trade relations, political turmoil, weather 35 Table of Contents events, and natural catastrophes, including warfare and terrorist attacks on the United States or elsewhere, could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition as well as demand for our offerings and the growth of our business. In particular, we generate a significant proportion of our GTV from a limited number of geographical markets. If such negative conditions disproportionally affect these markets, the demand for our offerings and the growth of our business may be more severely impacted. In addition, these events and any impact of these events on critical infrastructure in the United States and elsewhere, have the potential to disrupt our business and the business of our retail partners and brand partners, as well as the ability of shoppers using Instacart to complete deliveries. Such disruptions may create additional costs for us to maintain or resume operations and may also negatively affect the growth of our business. Our results of operations are impacted by the amount of disposable income that consumers have to spend on online grocery shopping. Actual or perceived risks of an economic recession and recent inflationary pressures have adversely impacted consumer disposable income and resulted in decreased customer retention and engagement. In addition, in response to adverse economic conditions or a decrease in discretionary income, consumers may opt to purchase groceries or other consumer goods themselves, instead of through Instacart, or choose to purchase groceries from bargain or other lower-cost retailers that are not on Instacart. If spending at many of the retailers in our network declines, or if a significant number of these retailers goes out of business, consumers may be less likely to use our service, which could harm our business and results of operations. Customers may also reduce their spending on Instacart due to decreases in discretionary income, leading to lower average order values, which could cause our retail partners to reduce or cease engagement with Instacart. In addition, increases in food, labor, fuel, energy, supply, and other costs have caused our retail partners to raise prices and may cause further price increases in the future. Factors such as inflation, the impact of climate change, increased food costs, increased labor and employee benefit costs, increased rent costs, and increased energy costs may also increase retailers operating costs. Many of the factors affecting retailers costs are beyond the control of our retail partners. In many cases, these retailers may not be able to pass along these increased costs to consumers and, as a result, may reduce product offerings or cease operations. Additionally, if retailers continue to raise prices, customer order volume may decline. Further, increases in gas prices or other factors that increase the costs to operate motor vehicles could make it prohibitively expensive for shoppers to deliver to customers. Our workforce and operations have grown substantially since our inception, and we expect to continue expanding the scale of our operations. If we are unable to effectively manage that growth, our financial performance and future prospects will be adversely affected. Since our inception, we have experienced rapid growth in the United States and Canada, with particularly rapid growth in 2020 and 2021 due to increased demand during the COVID-19 pandemic. This expansion increased the complexity of our business and has placed, and will continue to place, significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively, which could damage our reputation and negatively affect our results of operations. While the pace of our headcount expansion has slowed, we may continue to grow our number of employees in order to meet our business plans or comply with regulatory changes. Our organizational structure will continue to evolve as we add additional retailers, customers, brands, shoppers, employees, offerings, and technologies, improve upon our product infrastructure, and as we continue to expand further domestically and internationally. Properly managing our growth will require us to continue to retain or hire, train, and manage qualified employees and staff, including engineers, operations personnel, financial and accounting staff, and sales and marketing staff, and to improve and maintain our technology. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing, and integrating these new employees and staff, or if we are not successful in retaining or increasing the productivity of our existing employees and staff, our business may be harmed. Additionally, certain units of employees may decide to unionize, in which case, we would be legally compelled to enter into good faith negotiations with the union representative over a collective bargaining agreement. Such negotiations or collective bargaining agreements may negatively impact our financial performance or results of operations. Furthermore, our workforce restructuring in February 2024 may result in increased attrition beyond our intended reduction, reduce employee morale, and may negatively impact employee recruiting and retention as well as our operations, our ability to grow our business, and our financial results. Properly managing our growth will require us to establish consistent policies across regions and functions, and a failure to do so could likewise harm our business. If we are unable to expand our operations, appropriately manage our headcount and retain and increase the productivity of our existing employees, or attract sufficient shoppers in an efficient manner, or if our operational technology is insufficient to reliably service customers, customer satisfaction will be adversely affected, and this may cause customers to switch to our competitors platforms, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents Our failure to upgrade our technology or network infrastructure effectively to support our growth could result in unanticipated system disruptions, slow response times, or poor experiences for customers. To manage the growth of our operations and personnel and improve the technology that supports our business operations, as well as our financial and management systems, disclosure