Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based on current plans, expectations and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and other sections, including the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Instacart is powering the future of grocery through technology. We partner with retailers to help them successfully navigate the digital transformation of their businesses. Instacart was founded in 2012 to bring the grocery industry online and help make grocery shopping effortless. We started by understanding what consumers want and then built enterprise-grade technologies that allow retailers to meet those needs. Instacart invented a new model for online grocery shopping by offering consumers on-demand delivery from the stores they know and trust. Retailers reach customers through both Instacart Marketplace, where customers can shop from their favorite retailers through our app or website, and retailers owned and operated online storefronts that are powered by Instacart Enterprise Platform, our end-to-end technology solution encompassing e-commerce, fulfillment, Connected Stores, ads and marketing, and insights. Instacart started as a way for households to conveniently manage their weekly grocery shopping, a recurring and high order value consumer use case. Today, customers can place orders for delivery or pickup across a variety of use cases including the weekly shop, bulk stock-up, convenience, and special occasions. Customers can select the fulfillment option and speed that best serve their needs. Each order can be shopped for and delivered with care by one of the hundreds of thousands of shoppers who value the flexible earnings opportunities that Instacart provides. In addition, brands can use Instacart Ads as a new way to reach customers at the point of purchase and within minutes of delivery and consumption. Instacart Ads offers brands a highly measurable ads offering that leverages first-party transaction data to move products off store shelves more efficiently. Shopper Classification Developments The state of the law regarding independent contractor status of Instacart shoppers varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and among governmental agencies and is subject to change based on court decisions, administrative or agency determinations, new or changing regulations, and other legal and regulatory proceedings. Some jurisdictions have adopted, and may adopt in the future, regulations that impact whether we can or should classify shoppers as independent contractors. For example, in California, the state ballot initiative Proposition 22, which became effective on December 16, 2020, provides a framework that offers legal certainty regarding the status of independent workers offering delivery services and protects worker flexibility, the quality of on-demand work, and access to benefits for those who qualify. However, on August 20, 2021, a judge in Alameda County Superior Court granted a writ that, if upheld, would order the State of California not to enforce Proposition 22 on the ground that it is unconstitutional. The California Attorney General filed an appeal, and on March 13, 2023, the appellate court largely reversed the superior court and effectively upheld Proposition 22. Plaintiffs have appealed the decision to the California Supreme Court and a hearing has been scheduled for May 21, 2024. If the appellate court ruling is reversed by the California Supreme Court, we will face legal uncertainty over whether we can properly classify shoppers in California as independent contractors as we currently do. A judgment, settlement, or order issued by a court or governmental body or otherwise in connection with any judicial, administrative, or legal proceeding that results in Instacart being prohibited from continuing to use independent-contractor shoppers in the manner we currently do in California would materially impair our business, growth, and results of operations due to our adoption of one or more alternative fulfillment strategies and the associated costs that would be required. Such change would impair our ability to innovate upon and expand our offerings, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of 29 Table of Contents operations and future growth. Further, if we increase customer fees or charges as a result of increased costs resulting from shoppers being classified as employees or alternative fulfillment strategies we may implement, we may experience customer dissatisfaction with such increased fees, which could result in significant decreases in orders, GTV, and revenue. We also may not be able to maintain adequate shopper supply as shoppers may choose not to engage with Instacart given the loss of flexibility under an employment model, and a majority of the shoppers currently on Instacart may not want to work as employees, which could impact orders, GTV, and revenue. Additionally, if we are unable to fully offset any additional costs incurred in connection with compliance efforts, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We may take additional actions that we determine are in the best interests of our business, customers, partners, and growth strategy, including potential cessation of operations in certain service areas in California if we determine that operating in such service areas is ultimately too costly or burdensome. The full impact of any reversal of the appellate court ruling by the California Supreme Court and the subsequent enforcement actions by courts, and resulting actions that we may take in response or preemptively, remain highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted. In addition, if we are prohibited from continuing to use independent-contractor shoppers in the manner we currently do in California, this may impact our current financial statement presentation including revenue and cost of revenue as further described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Part II, Item 7, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. We expect continuing challenges to the independent contractor classification of shoppers who use Instacart, or the imposition of additional requirements on the use of contractors, in California and in other jurisdictions. See the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Legal and Regulatory EnvironmentIf the contractor status of shoppers who use Instacart is successfully challenged, or if additional requirements are placed on our engagement of independent contractors, we may face adverse business, financial, tax, legal, and other consequences. Macroeconomic Impacts Our business, financial condition, and key business metrics have been, and are expected to continue to be impacted by recent macroeconomic trends affecting our markets and industry such as higher inflation, rising interest rates, the effects of supply chain challenges, cessation of government aid programs, geopolitical conflicts, uncertainty regarding an economic recession and associated decreases in consumer discretionary income, and the effects of severe weather patterns. For example, decreases in consumer discretionary income due to inflationary or recessionary economic pressures and rising interest rates, as well as cessation of government aid, have adversely impacted and continue to adversely impact order volumes, customer acquisition and retention, changing consumer preferences, and demand for premium or discretionary grocery purchases. Restructuring Plan On February 9, 2024, we announced a restructuring plan, including a reduction of approximately 250 employees, most of which was completed during the first quarter of 2024. As a result of our restructuring plan, we expect to generate cost savings within operating expenses for fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023, which we expect to reinvest into the business to drive profitable growth. See further details in Note 15 Restructuring included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Key Financial and Operational Highlights We use the following financial and key business metrics to help us evaluate the health of our business, identify trends affecting our performance, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions: 30 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 % Change (in millions, except percentages) Orders 66.6 72.8 9 % GTV $ 7,465 $ 8,319 11 % Revenue $ 759 $ 820 8 % Gross profit $ 582 $ 614 5 % Gross margin 77% 75% Gross profit as a percent of GTV 7.8% 7.4% Net income $ 128 $ 130 2 % Net income as a percent of revenue 17% 16% Net income as a percent of GTV 1.7% 1.6% Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ 169 $ 198 17 % Adjusted EBITDA margin (1) 22 % 24 % Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of GTV (1) 2.3 % 2.4 % ___________ (1) Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of GTV, and Adjusted EBITDA margin are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information regarding our use of these measures and reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, see the section titled Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Orders We define an order as a completed customer transaction to purchase goods for delivery or pickup from a single retailer on Instacart during the period indicated, including those completed through Instacart Marketplace or retailers owned and operated online storefronts that are powered by Instacart Enterprise Platform. We believe that orders are an indicator of the scale and growth of our business as well as the value we bring to our constituents. In the first quarter of 2024, orders increased to 72.8 million, or 9% growth compared to the same quarter in 2023. The increase in orders was driven primarily by increased engagement from new and existing customers. Gross Transaction Value We define GTV as the value of the products sold based on prices shown on Instacart, in addition to applicable taxes, deposits and other local fees, customer tips, which go directly to shoppers, customer fees, which include flat subscription fees related to Instacart+ that are charged monthly or annually, and other fees. GTV consists of orders completed through Instacart Marketplace or services that are part of the Instacart Enterprise Platform. We believe that GTV indicates the health of our business, including our ability to drive revenue and profits, and the value we provide to our constituents. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in GTV growth over the near term. In the first quarter of 2024, GTV increased to $8,319, or 11% growth compared to the same quarter of 2023, driven primarily by the increase in orders and, to a lesser extent, higher average order value. GTV growth was driven by seasonality, including increased demand for our offerings in times of inclement weather, and an extra day in the first quarter of 2024 due to leap day. Gross Profit, Gross Margin, and Gross Profit as a Percent of GTV Gross profit is defined as revenue less cost of revenue, and gross margin is defined as gross profit as a percent of revenue. We believe that gross profit, gross margin, gross profit as a percent of GTV are important indicators of the growth and efficiencies of our business. In the first quarter of 2024, gross profit increased to $614 million, or 5% growth, compared to the same quarter of 2023, primarily driven by the increase in transaction revenue. Gross margin decreased from 77% in the first quarter of 2023 to 75% in the first quarter of 2024, primarily driven by a decrease in transaction revenue as a percent of GTV as transaction revenue in the first quarter of 2023 benefited from significant fulfillment efficiencies and lower customer incentives. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a Percent of GTV, and Adjusted EBITDA Margin 31 Table of Contents We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income, adjusted to exclude (i) provision for income taxes, (ii) interest income, (iii) other expense, net, (iv) depreciation and amortization expense, (v) stock-based compensation expense, (vi) payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation expense, (vii) certain legal and regulatory accruals and settlements, net, (viii) reserves for sales and other indirect taxes, (ix) acquisition-related expenses, and (x) restructuring charges. We define Adjusted EBITDA margin as Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of revenue. For more information about how we use these non-GAAP financial measures in our business, the limitations of these measures, and reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, see the section titled Non-GAAP Financial Measures. In the first quarter of 2024, Adjusted EBITDA increased to $198 million, or 17% growth compared to the same quarter of 2023, primarily driven by revenue growth and efficiencies within adjusted total operating expenses. Our Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of GTV, and Adjusted EBITDA margin can vary significantly as we continue to make substantial investments to fuel our growth and scale our business. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue consists of transaction revenue and advertising and other revenue. Transaction Revenue We generate transaction revenue primarily from: end users, whom we refer to as customers, (i) through service and delivery fees paid for arranging fulfillment services from shoppers and (ii) for monthly or annual Instacart+ memberships, our membership program, which offers unlimited free delivery on orders over a certain size, a reduced service fee, credit back on eligible pickup orders, and exclusive benefits; retailers (i) through service fees in exchange for connecting retailers with customers to facilitate transactions on Instacart Marketplace and (ii) for orders placed through retailers owned and operated online storefronts powered by Instacart Enterprise Platform; and revenue share agreements with third parties that supply payment cards to Instacart shoppers for in-store use. Transaction revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of services, net of the purchase value of the goods remitted to retailers and payments to shoppers for their services (including any shopper incentives), coupons, consumer incentives, and refunds. We expect transaction revenue from customer and retailer fees to fluctuate from time to time as a result of customer and retailer fee optimizations and changes in the mix of customer use cases and fulfillment options. We also expect the amounts of payments to shoppers, coupons, consumer and shopper incentives, and refunds to fluctuate over time depending on a number of factors. For example, implementation of additional fulfillment options or shifts in our ability to use full-service shoppers, as well as fulfillment efficiencies, such as changes in our batch rate, average time spent per order, shopper tenure, and shopper pay optimization, could result in fluctuations in our transaction revenue. In addition, periods of elevated customer demand have resulted in and can in the future result in increased shopper incentives and degradation of order quality due to higher rates of out of stock items and other delays, which in turn generally lead to more appeasement credits and refunds. Furthermore, our overall marketing strategy will impact the spend mix between activities that are recorded as reductions of revenue, such as promotions and consumer incentives, and activities that are recorded as sales and marketing expense, such as paid marketing and referrer credits. In certain cases, reductions of revenue can be more than fees received from retailers and customers. As a result of these factors, transaction revenue as a percent of GTV may fluctuate over time. Advertising and Other Revenue We generate advertising and other revenue primarily from: the sale of advertising services to brands that are interested in reaching customers; and certain retailers for use of our software-as-a-service solution through Instacart Enterprise Platform that enhances the omnichannel shopping experience, with revenue recognized ratably over the subscription period. 32 Table of Contents Advertising revenue is recognized upon delivery of clicks for Sponsored Product ads, upon delivery of impressions or over the contract term on a fixed fee basis for display ads, or upon redemptions of coupons. Advertising and other revenue has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, seasonally high in the fourth quarter and seasonally low in the first quarter in a given year as a result of how advertisers deploy their budgets. In addition, we expect our advertising and other revenue growth rate and advertising and other investment rate (which we define as advertising and other revenue in a given period divided by GTV in such period) to continue to fluctuate, particularly during periods of acceleration or decreases in our GTV growth or periods in which we may generate more GTV growth from sources where we historically do not provide advertising. We expect our advertising and other revenue growth to fluctuate in the near term due to the macroeconomic factors described above and changes in brand partner spend in response to our GTV growth trends, which may occur on a delayed basis. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of third-party payment processing fees, expenses related to payment chargebacks, compensation costs of our employees primarily involved in fulfillment, hosting fees, insurance costs attributed to fulfillment, depreciation expense, and amortization expense of technology-related intangible assets and capitalized internal-use software. Compensation costs include salaries, taxes, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation expense. We expect cost of revenue, exclusive of stock-based compensation expense, will increase on an absolute dollar basis and vary from period to period as a percent of revenue as we continue to grow our operations. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percent of total revenue. Our gross margin has varied and will continue to vary from period to period based on a number of factors, including (1) changes in revenue mix, changes in the mix of order type due to changes in mix of use cases and fulfillment options, consumer shopping behaviors, average order values, customer fee optimization, and levels of consumer incentives, (2) operational efficiencies, (3) negotiations with our retail partners, third-party payment processors, and hosting providers, and (4) macroeconomic factors as discussed above. As we continue to expand across fulfillment options and consumer use cases, we also expect to incur additional types of costs, such as certain labor costs, that can impact both our cost of revenue and profitability trends in the future. Additionally, we expect fluctuations in transaction revenue and advertising and other revenue as described above. Operations and Support Expense Operations and support expense primarily consists of compensation costs for employees who support our operations, costs of customer and shopper support, costs to attract and onboard new shoppers, allocations of various overhead and occupancy costs, and depreciation and amortization expense. Compensation costs include salaries, taxes, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation expense. Operations and support expense, exclusive of stock-based compensation expense, may increase on an absolute dollar basis and vary from period to period as a percent of revenue and as a percent of GTV as we continue to invest in our operations and may hire additional employees, third-party consultants, and contractors to support our operations. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense primarily consists of compensation costs for our engineering employees, third-party consulting fees, allocations of various overhead and occupancy costs, and depreciation and amortization expense. Compensation costs include salaries, taxes, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation expense. Research and development expense, exclusive of stock-based compensation expense, may increase on an absolute dollar basis and vary from period to period as a percent of revenue and as a percent of GTV as we continue to invest in research and development activities relating to ongoing improvements to, and maintenance of, our offerings, including the hiring of engineering, product development, and design employees to support these efforts. Sales and Marketing Expense Sales and marketing expense primarily consists of advertising expenses, such as paid marketing, compensation costs for sales and marketing employees, third-party consulting fees, allocations of various overhead and occupancy costs, 33 Table of Contents depreciation expense, and amortization expense of customer relationship intangible assets. Compensation costs include salaries, taxes, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation expense. Sales and marketing expense, exclusive of stock-based compensation expense, may increase on an absolute dollar basis and vary as a percent of revenue, and as a percent of GTV as we continue to invest in sales and marketing to attract and increase the engagement of constituents on Instacart and increase our brand awareness. While we expect sales and marketing expense to be one of our largest operating expenses for the foreseeable future, the trend and timing of our sales and marketing expense will depend in large part on the timing and magnitude of our marketing campaigns. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense primarily consists of compensation costs for administrative employees, including finance and accounting, human resources, policy, and legal; third-party consulting fees; allocations of various overhead and occupancy costs; depreciation expense; and amortization expense of patents and trademarks. Compensation costs include salaries, taxes, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation expense. General and administrative expense, exclusive of stock-based compensation expense, may increase on an absolute dollar basis and vary from period to period as a percent of revenue and as a percent of GTV as we continue to invest in processes, systems, and controls to enable our internal support functions to scale with the growth of our business. In April 2023 and 2024, certain employees elected to receive cash in lieu of a portion of certain future equity awards to be granted by our board of directors, and as a result, we expect cash compensation expense and stock-based compensation expense within operations and support, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expense to fluctuate through the second quarter of 2024 and 2025, respectively. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net primarily consists of gains and losses from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency. Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain federal, state, local, and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Our provision for income taxes differs from the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the tax effects of stock-based compensation recognized, U.S. research and development credits generated, and the income taxes generated in U.S. states and foreign jurisdictions. Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof, and the geographic composition of our pre-tax income. We carefully monitor these factors and adjust our effective income tax rate accordingly. On January 31, 2024, the 2024 Tax Extenders Bill (the Extenders) legislation was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives and advanced to the U.S. Senate. The Extenders could retroactively reinstate Section 174 expensing for certain research and experimental expenditures, and extend 100% bonus depreciation, among other changes. We are monitoring these developments and evaluating the potential impact on our results of operations. 34 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 (in millions) Revenue $ 759 $ 820 Cost of revenue (1)(2) 177 206 Gross profit 582 614 Operating expenses: Operations and support (1)(2) 67 73 Research and development (1)(2) 127 115 Sales and marketing (1)(2) 161 184 General and administrative (1)(2) 77 98 Total operating expenses 432 470 Income from operations 150 144 Other expense, net (1) Interest income 14 22 Income before provision for income taxes 164 165 Provision for income taxes 36 35 Net income $ 128 $ 130 (1) Amounts include depreciation and amortization expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 (in millions) Cost of revenue $ 6 $ 7 Operations and support 1 1 Research and development 1 1 Sales and marketing 2 2 General and administrative 1 1 Total depreciation and amortization expense $ 11 $ 12 (2) Amounts include stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 (in millions) Cost of revenue $ $ 2 Operations and support Research and development 2 (21) Sales and marketing 1 9 General and administrative 2 19 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 5 $ 9 35 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations data, for each of the periods presented, as a percent of revenue. Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 (as a percent of revenue)(1) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 23 25 Gross profit 77 75 Operating expenses: Operations and support 9 9 Research and development 17 14 Sales and marketing 21 22 General and administrative 10 12 Total operating expenses 57 57 Income from operations 20 18 Other expense, net Interest income 2 3 Income before provision for income taxes 22 20 Provision for income taxes 5 4 Net income 17 % 16 % ___________ (1) Totals of percent of revenue may not foot due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 $ Change % Change (in millions) Transaction $ 559 $ 603 $ 44 8 % Advertising and other 200 217 17 9 % Total revenue $ 759 $ 820 $ 61 8 % The increase in transaction revenue in the first quarter of 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, was primarily driven by growth in GTV, which grew 11%, partially offset by increased investments in consumer incentives in the first quarter of 2024 The increase in advertising and other revenue during the first quarter of 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, was primarily driven by an increase in advertising volume, partially offset by changes in spend by certain of our brand partners in response to macroeconomic uncertainty and changes in our brand partners businesses and performance. Advertising and other investment rate decreased by 7 basis points to 2.6% during the first quarter of 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, as GTV grew faster than advertising and other revenue. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 177 $ 206 $ 29 16 % Gross profit $ 582 $ 614 $ 32 5 % Gross margin 77 % 75 % 36 Table of Contents The increase in cost of revenue in the first quarter of 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, was primarily due to an increase of $13 million in credit card processing fees, $8 million in delivery-related insurance costs, and $8 million in customer success and professional services costs. The increase in gross profit during the first quarter of 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, was primarily driven by the increase in transaction revenue due to the factors described above. The decrease in gross margin during the first quarter of 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, was primarily driven by a decrease in transaction revenue as a percent of GTV as the first quarter of 2023 benefited from significant fulfillment efficiencies and lower customer incentives. Operations and Support Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Operations and support $ 67 $ 73 $ 6 9 % Percent of revenue 9 % 9 % The increase in operations and support expense in the first quarter of 2024, compared to the same period in 2023, was not material. Research and Development Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Research and development $ 127 $ 115 $ (12) (9) % Percent of revenue 17 % 14 % The decrease in research and development expense in the first quarter of 2024, compared to the same period in 2023, was primarily due to a decrease of $4 million in compensation costs, primarily driven by an increase in stock-based compensation expense and restructuring charges including severance and other benefits, which was more than offset by a benefit of $79 million related to the reversal of previously recognized stock-based compensation expense for unvested equity awards for executive departures in the first quarter of 2024 and for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan, and an increase of $14 million in capitalized software development costs. Sales and Marketing Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 161 $ 184 $ 23 14 % Percent of revenue 21 % 22 % The increase in sales and marketing expense in the first quarter of 2024, compared to the same period in 2023, was primarily due to an increase of $16 million in compensation costs, primarily driven by an increase in stock-based compensation expense and restructuring charges including severance and other benefits, partially offset by a benefit of $8 million related to the reversal of previously recognized stock-based compensation expense for unvested equity awards for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring, and an increase of $7 million in marketing costs. 37 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) General and administrative $ 77 $ 98 $ 21 27 % Percent of revenue 10 % 12 % The increase in general and administrative expense in the first quarter of 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, was primarily due to an increase of $19 million in compensation costs, primarily driven by an increase in stock-based compensation expense and restructuring charges including severance and other benefits, partially offset by a benefit of $4 million related to the reversal of previously recognized stock-based compensation expense for unvested equity awards for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring. Interest Income Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 $ Change % Change (in millions) Interest income $ 14 $ 22 $ 8 57 % The increase in interest income in the first quarter of 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, was primarily due to higher average interest rates earned on our cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, and short-term investments. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 $ Change % Change (in millions) Provision for income taxes $ 36 $ 35 $ (1) (3) % The decrease in the provision for income taxes during the first quarter of 2024, compared to the same period of 2023 was not material. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures, as described below, to facilitate analysis of our financial and business trends and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We use Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of GTV, Adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted cost of revenue as a percent of GTV, adjusted operations and support expense, adjusted operations and support expense as a percent of GTV, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted research and development expense as a percent of GTV, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted sales and marketing expense as a percent of GTV, adjusted general and administrative expense, adjusted general and administrative expense as a percent of GTV, adjusted total operating expenses, and adjusted total operating expenses as a percent of GTV (collectively Non-GAAP Measures) in conjunction with GAAP measures to assess performance, to inform the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to discuss our business and financial performance with our board of directors. We believe that these Non-GAAP Measures provide useful information to investors about our business and financial performance, enhance their overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects, and allow for greater transparency with respect to metrics used by our management in their financial and operational decision making. We are presenting these Non-GAAP Measures to assist investors in seeing our business and 38 Table of Contents financial performance through the eyes of management, and because we believe that these Non-GAAP Measures provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing results of operations of our business over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Our definitions may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. In addition, other companies may not publish these or similar metrics. Further, these metrics have certain limitations in that they do not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Thus, our Non-GAAP Measures should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We encourage investors and others to review our business, results of operations, and financial information in their entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure, and to view our Non-GAAP Measures in conjunction with their respective most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a Percent of GTV, and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income, adjusted to exclude (i) provision for income taxes, (ii) interest income, (iii) other expense, net, (iv) depreciation and amortization expense, (v) stock-based compensation expense, (vi) payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation expense, (vii) certain legal and regulatory accruals and settlements, net, (viii) reserves for sales and other indirect taxes, (ix) acquisition-related expenses, and (x) restructuring charges. We define Adjusted EBITDA margin as Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of revenue. We include Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of GTV, and Adjusted EBITDA margin in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q because they are important measures upon which our management assesses our operating performance and the operating leverage in our business. Because Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of GTV, and Adjusted EBITDA margin facilitate internal comparisons of our historical operating performance, including as an indication of our revenue growth and operating efficiencies when compared to GTV and revenue over time, we use them to evaluate the effectiveness of our strategic initiatives and for business planning purposes. We also believe that Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of GTV, and Adjusted EBITDA margin, when taken collectively, may be useful to investors because they provide consistency and comparability with past financial performance, so that investors can evaluate our operating efficiencies by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations, or outlook. In addition, we believe Adjusted EBITDA is widely used by investors, securities analysts, ratings agencies, and other parties in evaluating companies in our industry as a measure of operational performance. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of GTV, and Adjusted EBITDA margin should not be considered as alternatives to net income, net income as a percent of GTV, net income as a percent of revenue, or any other measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. There are a number of limitations related to the use of Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of GTV, and Adjusted EBITDA margin rather than net income, net income as a percent of GTV, and net income as a percent of revenue, which are the most directly comparable GAAP measures. Some of these limitations are that each of Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of GTV, and Adjusted EBITDA margin: excludes stock-based compensation expense; excludes payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation expense; excludes depreciation and amortization expense, and although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated may have to be replaced in the future, increasing our cash requirements; excludes restructuring charges; does not reflect the positive or adverse adjustments related to the reserve for sales and other indirect taxes or certain legal regulatory accruals and settlements; does not reflect interest income which increases cash available to us; does not reflect other income that may increase cash available to us; does not reflect other income and expense that includes unrealized and realized gains and losses on foreign currency exchange; and does not reflect provision for or benefit from income taxes that reduces or increases cash available to us. 39 Table of Contents In the third quarter of 2023, employer payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of certain equity awards in connection with our IPO were excluded from our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA. Starting in the fourth quarter of 2023 and going forward, we excluded employer payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of equity awards from our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA. We have historically excluded stock-based compensation expense from Adjusted EBITDA, and management believes that excluding the related payroll tax expense is important and consistent, as such payroll tax expense is directly impacted by unpredictable fluctuations in our stock price and therefore may not be indicative of our core operating performance. Prior period comparative amounts were not material and were not recast to conform to this new presentation. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these limitations, we consider, and you should consider, Adjusted EBITDA together with other operating and financial performance measures presented in accordance with GAAP. The following table presents a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Net income $ 128 $ 130 Add (deduct): Provision for income taxes 36 35 Interest income (14) (22) Other expense, net 1 Depreciation and amortization expense 11 12 Stock-based compensation expense (1) 5 9 Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation (2) 13 Certain legal and regulatory accruals and settlements, net (3) 1 3 Reserves for sales and other indirect taxes (4) 1 (1) Acquisition-related expenses 1 Restructuring charges (5) 18 Adjusted EBITDA $ 169 $ 198 GTV $ 7,465 $ 8,319 Net income as a percent of GTV 1.7 % 1.6 % Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of GTV 2.3 % 2.4 % Revenue $ 759 $ 820 Net income as a percent of revenue 17 % 16 % Adjusted EBITDA margin 22 % 24 % ___________ (1) The first quarter of 2024 includes an aggregate $95 million benefit related to the reversal of previously recognized stock-based compensation expense for unvested equity awards for executive departures in the first quarter of 2024 and for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan. (2) Represents employer payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of certain equity awards. (3) Represents certain legal, regulatory, and policy expenses related to worker classification matters. (4) Represents sales and other indirect tax reserves, net of abatements, for periods in which we were unable to collect such taxes from customers. We believe this adjustment is useful for investors in understanding our underlying operating performance because in these cases, the taxes were not intended to be a cost to us but rather are to be borne by the customers. (5) Represents severance payments and other related benefits for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan. Refer to Note 15 Restructuring to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Adjusted Cost of Revenue and Adjusted Cost of Revenue as a Percent of GTV We define adjusted cost of revenue as cost of revenue excluding depreciation and amortization expense, and stock-based compensation expense. We exclude depreciation and amortization expense and stock-based compensation expense as they are non-cash in nature. 40 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation of cost of revenue to adjusted cost of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 177 $ 206 Adjusted to exclude the following: Depreciation and amortization expense (6) (7) Stock-based compensation expense (2) Adjusted cost of revenue $ 171 $ 197 Cost of revenue as a percent of GTV 2.4 % 2.5 % Adjusted cost of revenue as a percent of GTV 2.3 % 2.4 % Adjusted Operations and Support and Adjusted Operations and Support as a Percent of GTV We define adjusted operations and support expense as operations and support expense excluding depreciation and amortization expense, stock-based compensation expense, payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation, and restructuring charges. We exclude depreciation and amortization expense and stock-based compensation expense as they are non-cash in nature. We exclude payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of certain equity awards and restructuring charges as these are not indicative of our operating performance. The following table provides a reconciliation of operations and support expense to adjusted operations and support expense: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Operations and support $ 67 $ 73 Adjusted to exclude the following: Depreciation and amortization expense (1) (1) Stock-based compensation expense (1) Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation (2) (1) Restructuring charges (3) (2) Adjusted operations and support $ 66 $ 69 Operations and support as a percent of GTV 0.9 % 0.9 % Adjusted operations and support as a percent of GTV 0.9 % 0.8 % ___________ (1) Stock-based compensation expense for the first quarter of 2024 was offset by a $4 million benefit related to the reversal of previously recognized stock-based compensation expense for unvested equity awards for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan. (2) Represents employer payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of certain equity awards. (3) Represents severance payments and other related benefits for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan. Refer to Note 15 Restructuring to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Adjusted Research and Development and Adjusted Research and Development as a Percent of GTV We define adjusted research and development expense as research and development expense excluding depreciation and amortization expense, stock-based compensation expense, payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation, and restructuring charges. We exclude depreciation and amortization expense and stock-based compensation expense as they are non-cash in nature and we exclude payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of certain equity awards, and restructuring charges as these are not indicative of our operating performance. 41 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation of research and development expense to adjusted research and development expense: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Research and development $ 127 $ 115 Adjusted to exclude the following: Depreciation and amortization expense (1) (1) Stock-based compensation expense (1) (2) 21 Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation (2) (8) Restructuring charges (3) (9) Adjusted research and development $ 124 $ 118 Research and development as a percent of GTV 1.7 % 1.4 % Adjusted research and development as a percent of GTV 1.7 % 1.4 % ___________ (1) The first quarter of 2024 includes a $79 million benefit related to the reversal of previously recognized stock-based compensation expense for unvested equity awards for executive departures in the first quarter of 2024, and for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan. (2) Represents employer payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of certain equity awards. (3) Represents severance payments and other related benefits for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan. Refer to Note 15 Restructuring to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Adjusted Sales and Marketing and Adjusted Sales and Marketing as a Percent of GTV We define adjusted sales and marketing expense as sales and marketing expense excluding depreciation and amortization expense, stock-based compensation expense, payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation, acquisition-related expenses, and restructuring charges. We exclude depreciation and amortization expense and stock-based compensation expense as they are non-cash in nature and we exclude payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of certain equity awards, acquisition-related expenses, and restructuring charges as these are not indicative of our operating performance. The following table provides a reconciliation of sales and marketing expense to adjusted sales and marketing expense: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 161 $ 184 Adjusted to exclude the following: Depreciation and amortization expense (2) (2) Stock-based compensation expense (1) (1) (9) Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation (2) (2) Acquisition-related expenses (1) Restructuring charges (3) (3) Adjusted sales and marketing $ 157 $ 168 Sales and marketing as a percent of GTV 2.2 % 2.2 % Adjusted sales and marketing as a percent of GTV 2.1 % 2.0 % ___________ (1) The first quarter of 2024 includes an $8 million benefit related to the reversal of previously recognized stock-based compensation expense for unvested equity awards for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan. (2) Represents employer payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of certain equity awards. (3) Represents severance payments and other related benefits for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan. Refer to Note 15 Restructuring to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Adjusted General and Administrative and Adjusted General and Administrative as a Percent of GTV We define adjusted general and administrative expense as general and administrative expense excluding depreciation and amortization expense, stock-based compensation expense, payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation, certain legal and regulatory accruals and settlements, net, reserves for sales and other indirect taxes, and restructuring charges. We 42 Table of Contents exclude depreciation and amortization expense and stock-based compensation expense as these are non-cash in nature. We exclude payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of certain equity awards, certain legal and regulatory accruals and settlements, net, reserves for sales and other indirect taxes, and restructuring charges as these are not indicative of our operating performance. The following table provides a reconciliation of general and administrative expense to adjusted general and administrative expense: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 (in millions, except percentages) General and administrative $ 77 $ 98 Adjusted to exclude the following: Depreciation and amortization expense (1) (1) Stock-based compensation expense (1) (2) (19) Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation (2) (2) Certain legal and regulatory accruals and settlements, net (3) (1) (3) Reserves for sales and other indirect taxes (4) (1) 1 Restructuring charges (5) (4) Adjusted general and administrative $ 72 $ 70 General and administrative as a percent of GTV 1.0 % 1.2 % Adjusted general and administrative as a percent of GTV 1.0 % 0.8 % ___________ (1) The first quarter of 2024 includes a $4 million benefit related to the reversal of previously recognized stock-based compensation expense for unvested equity awards for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan. (2) Represents employer payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of certain equity awards. (3) Represents certain legal, regulatory, and policy expenses related to worker classification matters. (4) Represents sales and other indirect tax reserves, net of abatements, for periods in which we were unable to collect such taxes from customers. We believe this adjustment is useful for investors in understanding our underlying operating performance because in these cases, the taxes were not intended to be a cost to us but rather are to be borne by the customers. (5) Represents severance payments and other related benefits for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan. Refer to Note 15 Restructuring to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Adjusted Total Operating Expenses and Adjusted Total Operating Expenses as a Percent of GTV We define adjusted total operating expenses as the sum of adjusted operations and support expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted sales and marketing expense, and adjusted general and administrative expense. We exclude depreciation and amortization expense and stock-based compensation expense as these are non-cash in nature. We exclude payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of certain equity awards, certain legal and regulatory accruals and settlements, net, reserves for sales and other indirect taxes, acquisition-related expenses, and restructuring charges as these are not indicative of our operating performance. The following table provides a reconciliation of operating expenses to adjusted total operating expenses: 43 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Total operating expenses $ 432 $ 470 Adjusted to exclude to the following: Depreciation and amortization expense (5) (5) Stock-based compensation expense (1) (5) (7) Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation (2) (13) Certain legal and regulatory accruals and settlements, net (3) (1) (3) Reserves for sales and other indirect taxes (4) (1) 1 Acquisition-related expenses (1) Restructuring charges (5) (18) Adjusted total operating expenses $ 419 $ 425 Total operating expenses as a percent of GTV (6) 5.8 % 5.6 % Adjusted total operating expenses as a percent of GTV (6) 5.6 % 5.1 % ___________ (1) The first quarter of 2024 includes an aggregate $95 million benefit related to the reversal of previously recognized stock-based compensation expense for unvested equity awards for executive departures in the first quarter of 2024 and for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan. (2) Represents employer payroll taxes related to the vesting and settlement of certain equity awards. (3) Represents certain legal, regulatory, and policy expenses related to worker classification matters. (4) Represents sales and other indirect tax reserves, net of abatements, for periods in which we were unable to collect such taxes from customers. We believe this adjustment is useful for investors in understanding our operating performance because in these cases, the taxes were not intended to be a cost to us but rather are to be borne by the customers. (5) Represents severance payments and other related benefits for terminated employees in connection with the restructuring plan. Refer to Note 15 Restructuring to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. (6) Totals of percent of GTV may not foot due to rounding. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our founding, we have financed our operations primarily through the net proceeds we have received from the issuance of equity securities and through fees received from retailers, customers, and brands. As of March 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.5 billion and marketable securities of $20 million which were primarily held for working capital purposes. Since our founding, we have primarily generated losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $3.2 billion as of March 31, 2024. While we generated positive cash flows from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2023 and during the three months ended March 31, 2024, our future cash flows from operating activities may fluctuate as a result of investments we continue to make across our organization. As a result, we may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. Our working capital and operating cash flows fluctuated and continue to fluctuate significantly from period to period as a result of new initiatives, the timing of payments made to and/or received from retailers, shoppers, and vendors, and certain transaction types, such as those involving EBT SNAP and alcohol sales, which have a more significant impact on our working capital and operating cash flow due to the variability, magnitude, and timing of retailer reimbursements. Additionally, we make substantial weekly payments to shoppers on Tuesdays and Sundays for services delivered on Instacart and, therefore, we expect our reported cash and cash flows from operating activities to be impacted based on the day of the week of each reporting period. Furthermore, due to the timing of funding to a certain payment card issuer, we may experience an increase in short-term liabilities based on the day of the week of each reporting period. In November 2023, our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program to purchase up to an aggregate of $500 million of our common stock and in February 2024, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $500 million of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we repurchased and subsequently retired 25 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $715 million under the share repurchase program. The amount of shares repurchased and retired included 14 million shares repurchased in privately negotiated transactions with three shareholders in February 2024 for an aggregate amount of $390 million. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months and beyond. However, our future cash requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and the amount of cash 44 Table of Contents received from retailers, customers, and brands, the timing and extent of spending to support our research and development efforts as well as sales and marketing activities, the introduction of enhancements, the continuing market adoption of Instacart, and the volume and timing of our share repurchases. In addition, we may enter into additional or expanded retailer, customer, brand, or other relationships, as well as agreements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, teams, and technologies, including intellectual property rights, which could increase our cash requirements. As a result of these and other factors, we may be required to seek additional financing sooner than we currently anticipate. If additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In particular, recent volatility in the global financial markets, including due to heightened inflation and rising interest rates and other macroeconomic conditions, geopolitical conflicts, and recent and potential future disruptions in access to bank deposits or lending commitments due to bank failures could reduce our ability to access capital and negatively affect our liquidity in the future. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows would be adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2024 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 70 $ 105 Net cash provided by investing activities 42 13 Net cash used in financing activities (1) (750) Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $105 million, which consisted of net income of $130 million, adjusted for certain non-cash items of $74 million, and net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $99 million. The non-cash items primarily consisted of deferred income taxes of $41 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $12 million, stock-based compensation expense of $9 million, and bad debt expense of $8 million. The net cash outflows from changes in our operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to a $73 million increase in accounts receivable, a $25 million decrease in accounts payable, and a $9 million decrease in accrued and other current liabilities, partially offset by an increase of $16 million in deferred revenue. These cash outflows were primarily due to timing of customer and vendor payments. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by operating activities was $70 million, which consisted of net income of $128 million, adjusted for certain non-cash items of $31 million, and net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $89 million. The non-cash items primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization expense of $11 million, deferred income taxes of $6 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $5 million. The net cash outflows from changes in our operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to a $54 million decrease in accounts payable, a $50 million decrease in accrued and other current liabilities, and an $11 million increase in accounts receivable, partially offset by a $18 million increase in deferred revenue and an $11 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets. These cash outflows were primarily due to timing of customer and vendor payments. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by investing activities was $13 million, comprised primarily of maturities of marketable securities of $28 million, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment, including capitalized internal-use software, of $14 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by investing activities was $42 million, comprised primarily of maturities of marketable securities of $51 million, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment, including capitalized internal-use software of $9 million. 45 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $750 million, comprised primarily of repurchases of common stock of $715 million and taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards of $83 million, partially offset by proceeds from exercise of stock options of $49 million. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Operating Leases Our operating lease commitments primarily include corporate offices and warehouse space. As of December 31, 2023, we had fixed lease payment obligations of $43 million, with $15 million to be paid within 12 months and the remainder thereafter. For additional discussion on our operating leases, see Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Non-cancellable Purchases Our non-cancellable purchase commitments are primarily related to infrastructure service contracts for technology platforms. As of March 31, 2024, we had non-cancellable purchase obligations of $368 million, with $131 million to be paid within 12 months and the remainder thereafter. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the related disclosures at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the period presented. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.