Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7 and Business under Part I, Item 1, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. References to us, we, or our refer to the operations of Intapp, Inc. and its subsidiaries. All statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future operating results and financial position, our business strategy and plans, potential acquisitions, market growth and trends, and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, objective, ongoing, plan, predict, project, potential, should, will, or would, or the negative version of those words or other comparable words. Any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based upon our historical performance and on our current plans, estimates and expectations in light of information currently available to us. The inclusion of this forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the future plans, estimates or expectations contemplated by us will be achieved. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, financial results, financial condition, business, prospects, growth strategy, and liquidity. Accordingly, there are, or will be, important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in these statements. We believe that these factors include, but are not limited to: Our ability to continue our growth at or near historical rates; Our future financial performance and ability to be profitable; The effect of global events on the United States (U.S.) and global economies, our business, our employees, our results of operations, our financial condition, demand for our products, sales and implementation cycles, and the health of our clients and partners businesses; Our ability to prevent and respond to data breaches, unauthorized access to client data or other disruptions of our solutions; Our ability to effectively manage U.S. and global market and economic conditions, including inflationary pressures, economic and market downturns and volatility in the financial services industry, particularly adverse to our targeted industries; The effect on our customers of the imposition of additional tariffs, duties, or taxes, changes to existing trade agreements, and other charges or barriers to trade and any resulting impact to global stock markets, foreign currency exchange rates, and existing inflationary pressures; The length and variability of our sales cycle; Our ability to attract and retain clients; Our ability to attract and retain talent; Our ability to compete in highly competitive markets, including artificial intelligence (AI) products; Our ability to manage the implementation of AI into our products and services and to comply with U.S. and global laws and regulations regarding AI; Our ability to manage additional complexity, burdens, and volatility in connection with our international sales and operations; The successful assimilation or integration of the businesses, technologies, services, products, personnel or operations of acquired companies; Our ability to incur indebtedness in the future and the effect of conditions in credit markets; The sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents to meet our liquidity needs; and Our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property rights. ii Table of Contents These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. You should read the section titled Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of important factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Moreover, we operate in an evolving environment. New risk factors and uncertainties may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all risk factors and uncertainties. As a result of these factors, we cannot assure you that the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will prove to be accurate. Except as required by applicable law, we do not plan to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein, whether as a result of any new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K completely, and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. iii Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Overview Intapp is a leading global provider of AI-powered solutions for the worlds premier accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets firms. Intapps vertical software as a service (SaaS) solutions help professionals apply their collective expertise to make smarter decisions, manage risk, increase competitive advantage and drive new growth. Using the power of Applied AI, our purpose-built vertical SaaS solutions help firms accelerate the flow of information, activate expertise, empower teams, strengthen client relationships, reduce risk, and adapt more quickly in a highly complex ecosystem. The accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries we serve are largely comprised of elite, partner-led firms, which together form one of the largest sectors of the global economy. Firms in these industries operate in highly connected ecosystems, providing valuable expertise, insight, and advice to a broad range of companies and institutions across varied transactions and engagements. These industries are highly regulated, competitive and uniquely structured around deeply experienced partners and professionals who leverage knowledge, intellectual capital, and relationships to succeed differing greatly from companies that sell goods and products. Firms must manage an intricate web of complex, non-linear relationships spread across various functions, processes, and personnel, while also navigating an ever-changing market and regulatory environment. Historically, firms in these industries have either relied on internally built technology solutions and legacy on-premises software, or they have attempted to use horizontal software providers to meet their industry-specific technology needs. Internally built or legacy solutions tend to be outdated, expensive, and cumbersome to maintain, while horizontal solutions do not align well with how firms operate, necessitating heavy customization. As a result, these firms are increasingly embracing industry-specific software and AI technology to achieve improved levels of growth, investment, returns, productivity, risk management, and a differentiated experience for their clients, teams, and investors. Our industry cloud strategy leverages deep understanding of the professionals across accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets to deliver products that are tailored to address their specific business challenges. We combine our purpose-built technology with best practices that have been developed over 25 years of experience and thousands of successful deployments. This includes our robust set of Applied AI capabilities that help clients solve unique challenges, allowing them to grow faster and run smarter. It also includes our expansive industry-specific partner ecosystem, which allows our clients to generate added value from the adoption of our platform. All these elements work together in our comprehensive technology strategy: Intapp Intelligent Cloud. Alongside our cloud and Applied AI strategies and solutions, we believe our deep domain expertise gained over 25 years of operating experience drives our competitive advantage. We have cultivated privileged, difficult-to-replicate access to the worlds leading firms, resulting in a deep understanding of how they work and what they need. Clients value our scalable platforms differentiated domain expertise, purpose-built capabilities, comprehensive end-to-end offerings, data-driven AI insights, and industry brand. We are trusted by many of the worlds elite firms, including95 of the Am Law 100 law firms, 16 of the top 20 accounting firms, and over 1,700 private capital and investment banking firms. We sell our software on a subscription basis through a direct sales model. As of June 30, 2025, we had over 2,700 clients. Our business has historically grown through a combination of expanding within our existing client base by adding additional users and capabilities, selling to new clients, and cloud migrations. We have had success in driving clients to further adoption, and currently have 109clients with contracts greater than $1.0 million of annual recurring revenues (ARR). This number is up from 73 clients at the end of fiscal year 2024, representing a 49% increase year-over-year. With our scalable, modular cloud-based platform, we believe we are well positioned to continue our growth. Our most significant opportunity lies with the largest firms, where we see substantial expansion potential as firms continue to consolidate. We pursue growth in the number of clients, but our biggest drivers are the assets under management and revenue growth of our clients as well as growth in the total number of professionals they employ. 1 Table of Contents Our Products and Platform Intapp Intelligent Cloud The Intapp Intelligent Cloud represents our comprehensive technology strategy, guiding how we build, run, and deliver software to meet the unique needs of professionals and their workflows. With well-integrated Microsoft 365 tools and a focus on secure, innovative solutions, the Intapp Intelligent Cloud facilitates firms efficient management of their current work while preparing for future demands. Our clients deliver value by leveraging their expertise, relationships, and experience. By its very nature, their work involves compiling inputs from vast sources of data and generating informed opinions that drive action. We believe these firms and their professionals are uniquely positioned to benefit from the promise of generative AI and advanced digital tools. With enhanced products such as Intapp Time, now powered by generative AI for smarter timekeeping, and Intapp Walls for AI, which safeguards confidential information we are enabling firms to streamline complex workflows, accelerate billing cycles, and enforce confidentiality controls that support compliance and build trust. When paired with Microsoft Copilot, Intapp Walls further supports secure enterprise data isolation ensuring AI-powered collaboration remains confidential and compliant. And with Intapp Assist, we have extended that innovation to origination, helping professionals surface insights and enhance decision-making at the earliest stages of client engagement. Whether firms are using Intapp DealCloud for business development, compliance products for risk management, time products for efficient billing and time tracking, or collaboration products to streamline teamwork, the Intapp Intelligent Cloud is tailored to support professionals across specialized industries. Together, these products empower firms to move fast, win more business, and apply their collective intelligence to deliver greater value for their clients. Industry Products and Solutions Our solutions enable accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets firms and their professionals to realize the benefits of modern AI and cloud-based architectures for their most critical business functions without compromising industry-specific functionality or their unique client, ethical, or regulatory obligations. Our solutions serve firms need for strong operational controls and compliance and are complemented by solutions that support the work of the partners and professionals that grow the firms fees and revenues. Intapp DealCloud serves partners and professionals across all our markets, empowering them to manage client relationships, prospective clients and investments, current engagements, and operations. It enables investors and advisors to react faster, make better decisions, and execute the best deals. By unifying firm, market, and deal data in one place and leveraging the enriched company and contact profiles provided by Intapp Data, DealCloud delivers powerful intelligence, workflow automation, and actionable relationship insights. This helps investment banks and advisory firms enhance their coverage models, increase win rates, and drive higher success fees; supports investors in boosting origination volume, improving investment selection, and achieving greater returns; and enables professional services and advisory firms to refine client strategy and targeting, business development and origination, and work delivery ultimately increasing financial performance and supporting regulatory compliance. The flexibility of DealCloud allows it to serve as a customer relationship management, deal management, experience management, and relationship intelligence solution, helping firms manage all aspects of their client relationships. Intapps compliance products help firms evaluate new business, onboard clients efficiently, and monitor risk throughout the business lifecycle while maintaining regulatory and ethical standards. Intapp Terms centrally stores and enforces client and vendor commitments, using AI to identify and categorize key terms of business, while Intapp Employee Compliance helps firms to track the outside business activities of employees for adherence to firm policies and regulatory requirements. Intapp Intake and Intapp Conflicts streamline new business acceptance and conflict checks with AI-powered workflows and data integrations. Intapp Walls secures sensitive information and enforces access controls consistently across firm systems, maintaining confidentiality and compliance as firms adopt new technologies. 2 Table of Contents Intapps time products leverage AI to optimize efficiency and profitability for firms. Intapp Time streamlines time capture, enhances billing accuracy, and facilitates compliance with client requirements, helping professionals track both billable and non-billable hours. Intapp Billstream automates the prebilling process, generating accurate and compliant proforma invoices that improve realization rates and accelerate the billing cycle, all while strengthening client relationships. Intapps collaboration products deliver intelligent, client-centric teamwork by integrating seamlessly with Microsoft 365, Teams, and SharePoint. Intapp Collaboration provides a unified system for managing emails, documents, chats, and tasks across service lines, supporting seamless collaboration and enhanced service delivery with robust content governance and compliance features. Intapp Workspaces further enhances Microsoft Teams by creating engagement-focused hubs tailored for professional services firms, simplifying teamwork while facilitating adherence to firm policies and risk management. Intapp Data Foundation Our data foundation serves as the core architecture for our suite of cloud-based, AI-driven solutions tailored to the needs of professional and financial services firms. It is engineered to securely manage, integrate, and analyze vast amounts of proprietary and third-party data, supporting advanced AI capabilities such as relationship intelligence, automated summarization, and predictive analytics. It also enables seamless connectivity between internal systems and a growing ecosystem of over 100 technology and data partners empowering our clients to transform data into actionable insights while maintaining high standards of security and regulatory compliance. Low-code configurability and personalized UX Our configurable user experience (UX) capabilities allow both technical and non-technical users to quickly tailor Intapp applications to meet their specific needs. These capabilities enable our clients to make meaningful changes to their UX, processes, and business rules using drag-and-drop configuration features and functionality without having to perform custom coding. The flexibility of this framework enables firms to maximize their agility and easily adapt the software to match the frequent changes in their business. We leverage our deep domain expertise in professional and financial services to create and provide our clients with access to pre-built industry-relevant configuration templates designed precisely for how these firms and their professionals operate. By mapping the user interface, data model, and workflows of our platform to firms unique industry and organizational requirements, we deliver smart, personalized experiences by practice area, asset class, investment strategy, sector, industry, and geography. 3 Table of Contents Applied AI our AI strategy Industry-specific AI is embedded throughout our cloud platform and solutions to help firms use their vast amounts of data to optimize critical processes and make better, faster decisions. Our AI team has been delivering capabilities into our solutions for over a decade, leveraging AI technology including automation, machine learning, deep learning and generative AI. The functions span a wide range across firm operations, including strategy, business development, risk and compliance, and work execution. Guided by years of experience integrating AI capabilities into Intapp tools, our Applied AI strategy also helps our clients maintain proper safeguards. We apply our unique understanding of their complex obligations, so our solutions AI-generated results include provenance and are sourced only from data that each user is authorized to see solving a unique challenge to these professionals and their firms. Over the past year, we have further strengthened our AI capabilities with the launch of Intapp DealCloud Activator, which integrates insights from behavioral science and AI directly into business development workflows. Our growth AI framework provides clients with real-time analytics and actionable recommendations, empowering them to align business development efforts with their strategic goals and operational best practices. Supported by our scalable cloud infrastructure and partner ecosystem, these innovations reinforce Intapps commitment to delivering secure, intelligent solutions that drive measurable results for our clients. Intapp Assist is the cornerstone of our AI-driven transformation for firms, helping to seamlessly integrate advanced machine learning and natural language processing into Intapp products, such as Intapp DealCloud and Intapp Terms. Designed to empower professionals with intelligent automation, Intapp Assist streamlines critical workflows, enhances decision-making, and delivers measurable results. Supported by our scalable cloud infrastructure and partner ecosystem, Intapp Assist delivers a range of powerful features that address the unique challenges faces by partner-led firms. These capabilities include: Summarization: Automatically generates concise summaries of unstructured data, such as meeting transcripts or relationship histories. This saves professionals time by distilling critical information into digestible formats. Email outreach: Creates personalized and targeted communication based on insights from previous interactions, relationships, and relevant news. AI-assisted email drafting helps professionals maintain meaningful and timely connections. Signals: Alerts users to actionable events within their network, such as job changes or company funding announcements, via AI driven feeds. Combines Intapp Data with third-party intelligence to surface timely engagement opportunities. Narrative generation: Automatically creates descriptions or commentary for reports and dashboards. This enhances knowledge-sharing across the firm while reducing manual effort. Relationship signals: Provides reminders and insights to help manage networks effectively. Surfaces key relationship changes or opportunities for engagement. Ask Intapp: A generative AI-powered feature integrated into Microsoft Teams that provides immediate answers about client contractual obligations. Users can query client requirement data stored in Intapp Terms conversationally, reducing the time spent researching compliance issues. Compliance automation: Simplifies adherence to outside counsel guidelines throughout the client lifecycle from new business intake to billing. This improves compliance, accelerates workflows, and enhances client satisfaction. Origination: Streamlines deal sourcing with AI-powered tools, unified data, and dynamic target lists. Helps professionals identify and pursue high-value opportunities more efficiently. 4 Table of Contents Industry-specific data architecture Our data foundation includes several key data management capabilities that help firms more effectively capture and leverage their critical data using a system of record that reflects the unique operating model of our client firms. These capabilities include: A specialized industry graph data model: Our specialized industry data model is purpose-built to capture the complex relationships, and the specialized knowledge and experience, that are unique to the firms we serve. The platform creates many-to-many data linkages that connect professionals with prospective clients, investors, and target portfolio companies and assets. Our solutions leverage these linkages to provide personalized analysis and insights for each professional that reflect their unique area of specialty, such as client industry, asset class, investment strategy, geography, or transaction type. A low-code integration tool: Intapp Integration Service is a core capability of our platform that provides cloud-native, easy-to-use, enterprise-class integration to connect applications and data without requiring any code. The solution helps firms overcome data silos and easily move information between systems, including within our platform. Intapp Integration Service includes more than 100 industry-specific connectors, as well as extensive built-in workflow and automation capabilities tailored to the unique needs of professional firms. Market intelligence in one place: Our DealCloud platform combines proprietary and third-party market data, transforming it into institutional knowledge that gives dealmakers and other professionals a competitive advantage through better marketintelligence. Professionals can run complex reports, analyze industry trends, and evaluate potential synergies in the same place where they originate new business and manage relationships. With better, real-time, actionable market data, investors can source and close deals that best match their investment thesis and strategy, advisory professionals can quickly develop proprietary relationships and coverage strategies with companies that match previous transactions, and lawyers can more accurately identify white space opportunities with global clients to grow their relationships. Intapp Cloud Infrastructure Our modern cloud-based infrastructure is purpose-built to meet the specialized needs of the industries we serve. It is built on Microsoft Azure and provides high availability, robust data security, and seamless integration across all Intapp cloud-based products, helping firms to operate efficiently while adhering to strict regulatory requirements. With advanced capabilities like multi-zone redundancy and proactive monitoring, the infrastructure delivers reliable performance and flexibility, enabling professionals to securely access critical applications and adapt to evolving business demands. Key capabilities of our cloud infrastructure include: Multi-tenant architecture: Our multi-tenant architecture enables scalability, elasticity, high availability, and security, and provides operational cost efficiencies. Additionally, our internal operations and analytics instrumentation aggregates and leverages client instance and tenant experience captured within our solutions to track uptime and provide clients with real-time cloud status and trust information. Single unified codebase: We develop and release new versions of our solutions to cloud tenants on a common release schedule, with quarterly major releases and monthly maintenance releases. We deploy upgrades rapidly to all of our cloud clients. With this approach, all cloud tenants are always on the latest versions of the software and have immediate access to critical new features, bug fixes, and innovations without the lead time and delays common with traditional on-premises upgrade cycles. Enterprise-grade security: In response to the security requirements of professional and financial services firms, Intapp SaaS solutions provide tenants with enterprise-grade security, data protection, and control. Intapp SaaS solutions employ identity and access controls, with data encrypted both in transit and at rest. Intapps cloud services comply with numerous internationally recognized standards, including ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27018, SOC 2, and CSA STAR. 5 Table of Contents Open ecosystem and application programming interface (APIs): Intapp supports an open ecosystem by creating a centralized data lake and messaging service that integrates with disparate internal data sources and third-party applications and data services. By leveraging Intapps open representational state transfer APIs, client IT departments, other software providers, firm consultants, and partners in Intapps ecosystem can extend the benefits of Intapps platform to a broader range of business applications. Key Benefits of Our Solutions Accelerating growth with AI-powered insights: Our products empower firms to drive growth by leveraging AI-driven insights and automation across business development, client engagement, and deal management. By surfacing actionable intelligence and automation key workflows, our products enable professionals to focus on high-value opportunities and relationships, resulting in measurable revenue growth and expanded market reach. Streamlining operations for improved efficiency: Our products automate repetitive tasks and connect disparate systems, eliminating bottlenecks and reducing manual errors. By centralizing data and workflows, our solutions allow teams to manage complex processes efficiently freeing professionals to focus on strategic initiatives and supporting scalable growth as firms expand. Strengthening risk management and compliance: Our products are engineered with robust risk and compliance features at their core. From client onboarding to ongoing monitoring, our solutions help firms stay ahead of regulatory requirements and mitigate potential risks. Predictive analytics and real-time alerts empower proactive management, safeguarding reputation and client trust. Optimizing time and resource tracking: Our products support efficient time capture, resource allocation, and project delivery, helping firms maximize productivity and profitability. By streamlining time entry, billing, and operational compliance, these tools enable professionals to focus on delivering value to clients while maintaining accurate records and supporting business objectives. Enabling secure collaboration and information sharing: Our collaboration products facilitate secure, real-time communication and information sharing across teams. We help to break down silos, support coordinated workflows, and support firms to deliver superior client service through teamwork. Data-driven intelligence powered by our data foundation: Our data foundation unifies and secures data across systems, enabling advanced analytics and machine learning to transform raw information into actionable insights. This architecture supports relationship intelligence, market trend analysis, and rapid decision-making, giving firms a competitive edge in fast-moving markets. Secure, scalable cloud infrastructure for future growth: Our cloud-based products deliver secure, reliable, scalable technology that adapts to evolving business needs. With enterprise-grade security, seamless integration with partners, and continuous updates, our products help to reduce IT complexity and support ongoing innovation. Growth Strategies The key components of our growth strategy are: Capitalize on the generational change in work driven by AI: We are seeing increased awareness and adoption of AI among our clients who are interested in how they can leverage the technology to further their business goals. Driven, in part, by the excitement around generative AI, interest in next-generation solutions such as Intapp Assist is increasing. And our Applied AI strategy expands the value of our cloud offerings by incorporating recent advancements in AI to help our clients solve practical and unique business challenges. Grow our client base:We are addressing a large, underserved market of firms with high demand for the capabilities we offer, thus we believe we have a significant opportunity to continue to grow our client base. We will continue to invest in our sales and marketing force to target new client opportunities and grow our client base. Move upmarket into the enterprise sector: We are strategically expanding our focus to include larger enterprise clients. These clients face increasingly complex operational, regulatory, and client demands and we believe our platform is uniquely positioned to support their needs. Moving upmarket complements our existing client acquisition strategy and enables us to deliver greater value through broader deployments and deeper integrations. 6 Table of Contents Expand within our existing client base: We have deep, long-standing, trust-based relationships with our clients. Our land-and-expand model generates multi-year growth within our client base, with client lifetimes often spanning more than a decade. Clients typically adopt one of our solutions to address a specific use case, then expand their use by adopting more solutions, adding more users, and deploying to other parts of their organization over time. Continue to lead the market shift to the cloud: Mission-critical applications are increasingly being delivered more reliably, securely, and cost-effectively via the cloud. This move is driven in part by the needs of the next generation of professionals, who require real-time collaboration and access to valuable data from anywhere, anytime, on any device. As cloud technologies become the industry standard, accelerated adoption of additional cloud capabilities will continue to increase across firms. We believe we are a leader in the adoption cycle of cloud-based solutions by professional and financial services firms. Add new solutions to our platform: We plan to continue investing in our research and development team to enhance the functionality and breadth of our current solutions, as well as to develop and launch new solutions to address the evolving needs of our clients. In particular, we are continuing to invest resources in extending our AI and data science capabilities to better connect people, processes, and data. Broaden our geographical reach: We believe there is a significant need for our solutions on a global basis and, accordingly, opportunity for us to grow our business through further international expansion. We regularly analyze trends across the global market to identify areas for successful expansion and prioritize our investment to maximize our opportunity. We will continue to broaden our global footprint and intend to establish a presence in additional international markets. Serving new and adjacent markets: We believe that there is commonality between the industries we serve: accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital, and real assets. They operate in complex, highly connected ecosystems, and provide valuable expertise, insight, and advice across varied transactions and engagements. As we move further into these industries and continue to develop our solutions, we have uncovered additional markets that would benefit from the use of our solutions. As such, corporate legal and corporate development teams are new growth segments for us, as lawyers, investment bankers, and private capital professionals move to these teams and bring their expertise with our solutions with them. Selectively pursue strategic transactions: We have successfully completed 12 acquisitions over the past 13 years that have allowed us to enhance our platform, add new technology capabilities, and address new client segments. For example, in fiscal year 2025 we completed an acquisition of TermSheet, a software provider to real estate teams. Bringing together Intapp DealCloud and TermSheet creates a strong team of industry experts and will deliver a powerful operating system tailored to the complex needs of the commercial real estate industry. We will continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities that will help us extend our market leadership and client reach. Foster a growing partner ecosystem: We have a growing partner ecosystem that includes a range of strategic, technology, data, services, and implementation partners. Intapps partner program expands the value we bring to clients by increasing access to trusted technology, data, and service providers that grow clients businesses and drive innovation. Our partnership with Microsoft continues to deliver value in the form of joint innovation, joint marketing, and increased sales via the Azure Marketplace and the ability for clients to purchase our solutions using their Microsoft Azure consumption commitments. Our Clients Intapp is a leading global provider of AI-powered solutions for professionals at the worlds premier accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital, and real assets firms. Collectively, more than 2,700 clients, including 95 of the Am Law 100 law firms, 16 of the top 20 accounting firms, and over 1,700 private capital and investment banking firms rely on Intapp solutions to help activate their collective knowledge, navigate complex relationships, and drive growth. 7 Table of Contents Our Functions Sales and Marketing We currently focus on marketing and selling our solutions to accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital, and real assets firms in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia Pacific. We seek to drive market demand by developing and delivering specific, market-focused solutions to these firms. We primarily generate sales through a direct sales model. All sales personnel focus on attracting new clients as well as expanding usage within our existing client base. Our sales team is supported by technical sales professionals and subject-matter experts who facilitate the sales process by developing and presenting demonstrations of our solutions in a way that aligns with specific firm requirements, security and technical questions, and solutions that match the firms needs. We also have a team of experts who help advise on best practices and methodologies, strategize with respect to operations processes and management structure, and assess value creation and return on investment from our solutions. We are leveraging AI across our go-to-market functions to scale content creation, streamline campaigns, and enhance seller enablement. These investments are driving greater productivity while positioning us to engage the market with greater speed and intelligence. We have a growing partner ecosystem that includes specialized implementation and advisory services, integrations with leading data providers, and technology and Independent Software Vendor partnerships, including our strategic alliance with Microsoft. Together with our partners, we generate increased value for our clients and broaden our reach and capabilities across key markets. Across our entire ecosystem, we now have 145 data, technology and services and implementation partners. Our marketing efforts are focused on generating awareness of our solutions, creating sales leads, establishing and promoting our brand, showcasing our thought leadership, and cultivating a community of loyal clients and users. We utilize both online and offline marketing initiatives, including events and industry trade shows, online advertising, webinars, blogs, corporate communications, white papers, and case studies. We cultivate a community of our executive level buyers and influencers through our advisory board system. Client Services and Client Success After a client purchases our solutions, we, either directly or together with partners, provide implementation services to assist the client in the deployment of those solutions. We utilize best practices developed over years of implementation experience, including providing industry-specific templates to accelerate adoption and delivering a purpose-built configuration that best suits the clients specific needs. We support our clients with access to engineers, other technical support personnel, release management, and managed services. To help our clients achieve success with the Intapp Intelligent Cloud, we offer in-depth change management workshops, classroom and virtual end-user and administrator training, consultative adoption services, and best practices. We view our clients success as a cornerstone of our business model and philosophy, and are organized to measure, monitor, and deliver high levels of client satisfaction. We have also developed relationships with multiple implementation partners. These partners provide implementation services and other professional services related to our platform. We anticipate that we will continue to develop partnerships with a select number of third parties to help grow our business and deliver our solutions. In those markets where we have established such partnerships, we consider these important to our and our clients success. Research and Development Our ability to compete depends in large part on our continuous commitment to research and development and our ability to rapidly introduce new technologies, features, and functionality. Our research and development team is responsible for the design, architecture, testing, and quality of our solutions. We focus our efforts on enhancing our existing solutions and developing new solutions for our clients. Our research and development teams are primarily located in Belfast, Northern Ireland; Palo Alto, California; Charlotte, North Carolina; Berlin, Germany; London, U.K., and Lisbon, Portugal. We also utilize a substantial number of independent contractors and consultants working in research and development throughout the world. 8 Table of Contents Our Employees and Human Capital We have built our culture around the success of our clients, our partners, our employees, and our investors. We have carefully recruited, selected, and developed employees who are highly focused on delivering success for our clients. This strategy is a crucial element of our hiring and evaluation processes throughout all departments. We believe this approach produces high levels of both client success and employee engagement. We believe we provide employees with a unique opportunity to develop and sell world-class solutions within a specific industry. The Intapp Intelligent Cloud offers our developers an opportunity to build important solutions that can become the standard in the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries, while enabling sales personnel to sell a growing portfolio of solutions to a focused, deep set of firms. We believe that this unique opportunity will allow us to continue to attract top talent for our product development and sales efforts. As of June 30, 2025, we had 1,336 full-time employees. Our employees are primarily located in the U.S. and the U.K. We also utilize independent contractors, brokers, and consultants, including a substantial number of developers working in research and development. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are a party to a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be strong. Competition The accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change and emergence of new solutions. We compete with a wide range of established and emerging providers, including legacy systems, horizontal platforms, and specialized vertical solutions. Our success depends on our ability to deliver superior business outcomes through innovative, industry-specific products that address the unique challenges of accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital, and real assets firms. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our industry include the following: Deep domain experience and long-term, trusted relationships; Product innovation, quality, functionality, and design; Solutions that are purpose-built for this industry; Platform solutions that are complete, end-to-end solutions across the relationship lifecycle; Solutions that enable connectedness of key data and processes through the use of AI; A track record of delivering value consistently over time; A strong commitment to security and privacy; and Brand reputation and name recognition in the industry. Some of our competitors and potential competitors are large and have greater brand name recognition, longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets, established marketing relationships, access to larger client bases, and significantly greater resources for the development of their offerings. Moreover, because our market is highly competitive and subject to rapid change, it is possible that new entrants especially those with substantial resources, more efficient operating models, more rapid technology and content development cycles, or lower marketing costs could introduce new offerings that disrupt our market and better address the needs of our clients and potential clients. Also, certain competitors may challenge our intellectual property, develop additional competing or superior technologies and processes, or compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than we could. 9 Table of Contents We believe our position in the market is strengthened by our deep domain expertise, rapid product innovation, and the trust we have built with leading firms in our target industries. We have maintained strong adoption among top-tier clients, reflecting the value our solutions provide in driving growth, reducing risk, and improving operational efficiency. For additional information regarding the competitive business conditions we face, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and invention assignment agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. Our patents cover various aspects of the Intapp Intelligent Cloud. The term of individual patents depends on the legal term for patents in the countries in which they are granted. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our product and service offerings. There is no active patent litigation involving any of our patents, and we have not received any notices claiming that our activities infringe a third-partys patent. We cannot guarantee that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that, if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection for our technology. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, processes, and services. While we have generally been able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained in the future on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely upon trademarks to build and maintain the integrity of our brand and, in part, upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation, and licensing arrangements, to develop and maintain our competitive position. We own a number of registered trademarks (including Intapp and DealCloud, among others) and a portfolio of registered domain names for websites that we use in our business. We protect our proprietary rights through a variety of methods, including confidentiality and assignment agreements with suppliers, employees, consultants, and others who may have access to our proprietary information. Regulations We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to our business. Some of these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested in courts and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. These may involve privacy, data protection, content, intellectual property, data collection and processing, data security, and data retention and deletion. In particular, we are subject to federal, state, and foreign laws regarding data protection and privacy. Foreign data protection and privacy laws and regulations can impose different obligations that may be more restrictive than those in the United States. Some United States federal and state and foreign laws and regulations in some cases may be enforced by private parties in addition to government entities. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and may be subject to significant change. As a result, the application, interpretation, and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in the evolving industry in which we operate. This may result in laws and regulations being interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country, and also inconsistently with our current policies and practices. In recent years, there has been an increase in attention to and regulation of data protection and data privacy across the globe, including the Federal Trade Commissions increasingly active approach to enforcing data privacy in the United States. Additionally, the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) along with the United Kingdom which also still has laws equivalent to the GDPR/EU data protection laws have resulted and will continue to result in significantly greater compliance burdens and costs for companies with users and operations in the European Union. Under GDPR, fines of up to 20 million euros, or up to 4% of the annual global revenues of the infringer whichever is greater can be imposed for violations. The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) limit how we may collect and use certain data pertaining to California residents. Numerous other states have enacted or are considering enacting similar privacy laws, further complicating our privacy compliance obligations through the introduction of increasingly disparate requirements across the various U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate. 10 Table of Contents The impact of these laws on us and others in our industry is and will remain unclear until additional regulations are issued. The effects of the CCPA and CPRA are potentially far-reaching, however, and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and incur substantial compliance-related costs and expenses. Non-compliance with these laws could result in penalties or significant legal liability. We have invested, and continue to invest, human and technology resources into our GDPR and CPRA compliance efforts and our data privacy compliance efforts generally. Seasonality We generally experience seasonality in billings with our clients, and we typically record a higher percentage of billings in our fourth quarter than in the other quarters. Available Information The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Our website address is www.intapp.com. We make available on or through our website certain reports and amendments to those reports that we file with or furnish to the SEC in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). These include our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and our current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, and our Proxy Statement for our annual meeting of stockholders. We make available on our website at www.intapp.com, free of charge, copies of these reports and other information as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Further corporate governance information, including our corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and ethics, and committee charters, is also available on our investor relations webpage under the heading Corporate Governance. Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website does not constitute part of, and is not incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. The following material factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results and those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors, and oral statements. Risk Factors Summary Below is a summary of material factors that make an investment in our common stock speculative or risky: If our solutions or third-party cloud providers or sub-processors experience data security breaches and there is loss, theft, misuse, unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized access to our clients data, we may lose current or future clients, our reputation and business may be harmed, and we may be subject to governmental inquiries or investigations and a risk of loss or liability. Most of our revenues are generated by sales to clients in the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries, and factors, including downturns in U.S. and global markets and economic conditions, that adversely affect these industries could also adversely affect our business. Our rapid growth makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not continue to grow at or near historical rates. We have a history of losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our business depends on clients renewing and expanding their subscriptions for our solutions. A decline in our client renewals and expansions could harm our future results of operations. Because we recognize revenues from our SaaS solutions over the term of the agreements for our subscriptions, a significant downturn in our business may not be reflected immediately in our operating results, which increases the difficulty of evaluating our future financial performance. Our sales cycles are lengthy and variable, depend upon factors outside our control, and could cause us to expend significant time and resources prior to generating revenues. We are continuing to expand our SaaS solutions to incorporate recent innovations in AI and these initiatives may not be successful, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and may also result in reputational harm and liability. If we are unable to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our solutions, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage and our operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to develop or sell our solutions into new markets or to further penetrate existing markets, our revenues will not grow as expected, and if our established solutions fail to satisfy client demands or maintain market acceptance, our operating results could be adversely affected. We compete in highly competitive markets, and if we do not compete effectively, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be negatively impacted and cause our market share to decline. If the market for SaaS solutions, including those with AI and generative AI capabilities, for accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries develops slower than we expect or declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may continue to expand through acquisitions or partnerships with other companies, which may divert our managements attention and result in unexpected operating and technology integration difficulties, increased costs, and dilution to our stockholders. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and results of operations could be harmed. 12 Table of Contents Our solutions address functions within the heavily regulated accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries, and our clients failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to litigation. Our solutions or pricing models may not accurately reflect the optimal pricing necessary to attract new clients and retain existing clients as the market matures. Our loan and security agreement provides our lender with a first-priority lien against substantially all of our assets and contains restrictive covenants which could limit our operational flexibility and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to sell and renew our solutions is dependent in part on the quality of our implementation services and technical support services and the implementation services provided by our partners, and our failure to offer high-quality implementation services or technical support services or our partners failure to offering high-quality implementation services could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to sell our solutions to new clients and renew agreements with our existing clients. Real or perceived errors or failures in our solutions may affect our reputation, cause us to lose clients and reduce sales which may harm our business and results of operations. Changes in laws, regulations, or guidance issued by supervisory authorities relating to privacy or the protection or transfer of personal data, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws, regulations, or guidance, could adversely affect our business and could subject us to liability, fines and reputational harm. Assertions against us, by third parties alleging infringement or other violation of their intellectual property rights, could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Failure to protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We and our clients rely on technology and intellectual property of third parties, and any errors or defects in, or any unavailability of, such technology and intellectual property could limit the functionality of our solutions and disrupt our business. We agree to indemnify clients and other third parties, which exposes us to substantial potential liability. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent other minority stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest. The market price and trading volume of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders. Future offerings of debt or equity securities by us may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. We cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully consummated or will enhance long-term stockholder value, and stock repurchases could increase the volatility of the trading price of our common stock. We may be adversely affected by natural disasters, pandemics or other public health emergencies, other catastrophic events and terrorism that could disrupt and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If our solutions or third-party cloud providers or sub-processors experience data security breaches, and there is loss, theft, misuse, unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized access to our clients data, we may lose current or future clients, our reputation and business may be harmed, and we may be subject to governmental inquiries or investigations and a risk of loss or liability. Our business involves the processing, storing and transmission of increasingly large amounts of confidential and sensitive information that our clients and potential clients in the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries maintain and access. We and our third-party cloud providers and sub-processors face a variety of evolving threats that could cause data security breaches, including cyberattacks. Also, companies that provide software solutions to clients in the legal and investment banking industries, like us, may face heightened cybersecurity risks. While we have developed and implemented measures designed to protect client information and prevent security breaches and our cloud services comply with numerous internationally recognized standards, such as ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27108, SOC 2 and CSA STAR, if our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to client data is otherwise obtained, our solutions may be perceived as not being secure; clients, especially those in the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries, may reduce the use of or stop using our solutions, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our solutions involve the storage and transmission of data, in some cases to third-party cloud providers, which may include personal data, and security breaches, including at third-party cloud providers, could result in the loss, theft, misuse, unauthorized disclosure of and unauthorized access to this information, which in turn could result in governmental inquiries or investigations, litigation, breach of contract claims, indemnity obligations, reputational damage and other liability for our company. Despite the measures that we have or may take, our infrastructure will be potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, ransomware attacks, computer viruses or similar problems, and in the case of third-party cloud providers, may be outside of our control. As AI technologies, including generative AI models, continue to develop rapidly bad actors may use these technologies to create new sophisticated attack methods that are increasingly automated, targeted and coordinated and more difficult to defend against. If a person circumvents our security measures, that person could misappropriate proprietary information or disrupt or damage our operations. As our business grows, the number of individuals using our products, as well as the amount of information we collect and store, is increasing, and our brands are becoming more widely recognized, which makes us a greater target for malicious activity. Risk of cyberattacks including ransomware, continues to grow as cybersecurity threats become more sophisticated and complex and geopolitical tensions or conflicts, may create a heightened risk of cyberattacks. Like most companies that provide cloud-based software solutions, we are, in the normal course of business, the target of malicious cyberattack attempts. Although, to date, such identified attempts have not resulted in security events that are material to us, including to our reputation or business operations, or had a material financial impact, there can be no assurance that future cyberattacks will not be material. Security breaches that result in access to confidential information could damage our reputation and subject us to a risk of loss or liability. We may be required to make significant expenditures to remediate security breaches or significant additional expenditures to protect against security breaches. Additionally, if we are unable to adequately address our clients concerns about security, we may have difficulty selling our solutions. We rely on third-party technology and systems for a variety of services, including, without limitation, third-party cloud providers or sub-processors to host our websites and web-based services, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to clients, back-office support and other functions, and the ability to prevent breaches of any of these systems may be beyond our control. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. 14 Table of Contents Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect client information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third-party vendor, such measures cannot provide absolute security. In addition, we may have to introduce such protective systems and processes to acquired companies, who may not correctly implement them at first or at all. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new clients or to increase engagement by existing clients, could cause existing clients to elect not to renew their subscription arrangements or term licenses, or could subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. The laws, regulations and industry standards related to cybersecurity are evolving globally. We may be subject to increased compliance requirements by regulators and clients with respect to our products and services, as well as additional costs to oversee and monitor security risks. Many jurisdictions have enacted laws mandating the notification of individuals, stockholders, regulatory authorities and others of security breaches. While we maintain cyber liability insurance policies covering certain damages relating to security breaches, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Our risks are likely to increase as we continue to expand our platform, grow our client base, and process, store, and transmit increasingly large amounts of confidential and sensitive data, and as cybersecurity threats continue to grow increasingly sophisticated and complex. 15 Table of Contents Most of our revenues are generated by sales to clients in the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries, and factors, including downturns in U.S. and global markets and economic conditions, that adversely affect these industries could also adversely affect our business. A majority of our sales are to clients in the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries. Demand for our solutions could be affected by factors that are unique to and adversely affect our targeted industries. In particular, our clients in the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries are highly regulated, subject to intense competition and impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions. For example, changes in applicable laws and regulations could significantly impact the software functionality demanded by our clients and require us to expend significant resources to ensure our solutions continue to meet their evolving needs. Changes in general economic and market conditions, including economic uncertainty, inflation, liquidity concerns and fluctuating interest rates, have resulted in and could continue to result in stress and volatility in the financial services industry. In certain sectors of the financial services industry, certain financial institutions have faced liquidity and solvency concerns, consolidation, a severe decline in market value, distress, failure and receivership. Instability in the global banking system may result in additional bank failures, as well as volatility of global financial markets either of which may adversely impact our clients in the financial services industry and our business and financial condition. It is possible that these conditions may persist, deteriorate, or reoccur, which may cause our clients to reduce their spending on our technology or to seek to terminate or renegotiate their contracts with us. In addition, industry consolidation or the introduction of competing technology, in any of our targeted industries could lead to a significant reduction in the number of clients that use our solutions or the services demanded by these clients. Significant economic and market downturns make it difficult for our clients and us to forecast and plan future business activities accurately. Adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions including those associated with pandemics or other public health emergencies, uncertainty as a result of geopolitical events such as the conflicts in and around Ukraine, the Middle East and other parts of the world, inflation, fluctuations in interest rates, economic downturn, stress and volatility in the financial services industry, trade disputes, economic sanctions, export controls, impacts from increased or threatened tariffs or trade barriers and impacts from climate change could result in significant decreases in demand or lengthened sales cycles for our solutions, including the delay or cancellation of current or anticipated projects, and reduction in IT spending by our clients and potential clients, or could present difficulties in collecting accounts receivables from our clients if their financial condition deteriorates. The effects of climate change may further disrupt our clients businesses, by, among other things, increasing their costs and credit risk from their clients. Initiatives to reduce federal government spending may directly or indirectly have a negative impact on the business of our clients. Additionally, our market industries are also interdependent. Our clients in the professional services industry rely significantly on revenues that they receive from their own clients in the financial services industry; thus a decline in one industry can lead to a decline in the other industry. As a result, our ability to generate revenues from our clients could be adversely affected by specific factors that affect the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries. Our rapid growth makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not continue to grow at or near historical rates. We have been growing rapidly over the last several years, and as a result, our ability to forecast our future results of operations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to effectively plan for and model future growth. Our recent and historical growth should not be considered indicative of our future performance. In future periods, our revenues and related financial metrics could grow more slowly than in recent periods or decline for a number of reasons, including any reduction in demand for Intapp Intelligent Cloud, increase in competition, limited ability to, or our decision not to, increase pricing, or our failure to capitalize on growth opportunities or if any of the other risks described herein were to materialize. We have encountered in the past, and will encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in new and rapidly changing markets. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan and operate our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, our growth rates may slow and our business would suffer. 16 Table of Contents We have a history of losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. In fiscal years 2025, 2024 and 2023, we incurred net losses. We must generate and sustain higher revenue levels in future periods to become profitable, and even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase our profitability. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future as we intend to continue to invest in product development, sales and marketing programs and acquisitions to support further growth. We expect to also incur increased general and administrative expenses associated with our growth, including costs related to internal systems and operating as a public company. These expenditures may not result in additional revenues or growth of our business. We have also experienced increased costs associated with the growth and expansion of our client base and investments in research and development. Accordingly, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset our expected cost increases and achieve and sustain profitability. If we fail to achieve and sustain profitability, the market price of our common stock could decline. Our business depends on clients renewing and expanding their subscriptions for our solutions. A decline in our client renewals and expansions could harm our future results of operations. Our software solutions are provided on a subscription basis, with subscription terms typically varying from one to three years. Although most of our client subscriptions automatically renew at the end of their terms, our clients do have the opportunity to cancel their subscriptions prior to such renewals. Clients may elect to renew their subscriptions on a shorter subscription length or may elect not to renew their subscriptions on conclusion of the terms on relatively short notice. The loss of business from clients, including from cancellations, could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Historical data with respect to rates of client renewals, upgrades and expansions of our solutions, may not accurately predict future trends in client renewals, upgrades and expansions of our solutions. Our clients renewal, upgrade and expansion rates may fluctuate or decline because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our solutions and implementation services, the prices of the solutions and the quality of the implementation services offered by our competitors or reductions in our clients spending levels due to the macroeconomic environment or other factors. If our clients do not renew their subscriptions for our solutions or renew on less favorable terms, or otherwise do not upgrade or expand their use of our solutions, our revenues may decline or grow more slowly than expected and our profitability will be harmed. Because we recognize revenues from our SaaS solutions over the term of the agreements for our subscriptions, a significant downturn in our business may not be reflected immediately in our operating results, which increases the difficulty of evaluating our future financial performance. We generally recognize revenues from our SaaS solutions ratably over the duration of the contract, which typically range from one to three years. As a result, a substantial majority of our quarterly revenues from our SaaS solutions are generated from contracts entered into during prior periods. Consequently, a decline in new contracts in any quarter may not affect our results of operations in that quarter, but could reduce our revenues from our SaaS solutions in future quarters. Additionally, the timing of renewals or non-renewals of a contract during any quarter may only affect our financial performance in future quarters. For example, the non-renewal of a contract late in a quarter will have minimal impact on revenues from our SaaS solutions for that quarter but will reduce such revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales of our solutions may not be reflected in our short-term results of operations, which would make these reported results less indicative of our future financial results. By contrast, a non-renewal occurring early in a quarter may have a significant negative impact on revenues from our SaaS solutions for that quarter and we may not be able to offset a decline in such revenues with revenues from new contracts entered into in the same quarter. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our costs in response to reduced revenues from our SaaS solutions. These factors may cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows, may make it challenging for an investor to predict our performance and may prevent us from meeting or exceeding the expectations of research analysts or investors, which in turn may cause our stock price to decline. 17 Table of Contents Our sales cycles are lengthy and variable, depend upon factors outside our control, and could cause us to expend significant time and resources prior to generating revenues. The typical sales cycle for our solutions is lengthy and unpredictable and often requires pre-purchase evaluation by a significant number of employees in our clients organizations. Our sales efforts involve educating our clients about the use and benefits of our solutions, including the technical capabilities of our solutions and the potential cost savings achievable by organizations using our solutions. Potential clients typically undertake a rigorous pre-purchase decision-making and evaluation process, and sales to new clients involve extensive client due diligence and reference checks, especially for larger enterprise clients. We invest a substantial amount of time and resources in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce sales. Even if we succeed at completing a sale, we may be unable to predict the size of an initial subscription arrangement until very late in the sales cycle. Furthermore, our sales cycles could be disrupted by factors outside of our control, including macroeconomic factors, volatility in the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries and pandemics or other public health emergencies. We are continuing to expand our SaaS solutions to incorporate recent innovations in AI and these initiatives may not be successful, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and may also result in reputational harm and liability. We have an AI strategy to further expand and embed industry-specific AI throughout the Intapp Intelligent Cloud and our solutions to help our clients more effectively use their data to manage risk, enhance efficiency and improve operations. While we have made, and expect to continue to make, investments in the continued development of AI capabilities, adoption of fast changing AI technology presents risks, challenges and potential unintended consequences. Also, the markets for our solutions and services are rapidly evolving and are highly competitive, and many of our competitors are also incorporating AI into their products. Competing firms may be able to develop and embed AI in their products more quickly and successfully than we can. If our competitors are better able to incorporate AI in their products and we are unable to compete effectively with them, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Also, while we believe that the market for AI in SaaS solutions for the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries is growing, if the market for AI in these solutions develops more slowly than we expect or declines, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Our AI capabilities include, among other things, automation, machine learning, deep learning and generative AI. Many of our products are powered by AI and machine learning, some of which include the use of large language models and generative AI. Some of the known risks of generative AI currently include accuracy, bias, toxicity, privacy, and security and data provenance. For example, AI technologies may use algorithms, data sets, or training methodologies that may be flawed or otherwise contain deficiencies and may create content that is factually inaccurate or flawed or contains copyrighted or otherwise protected materials which, if used by our clients, could result in a negative impact to our reputation, competitive harm and liability for our company. Developing, testing and deploying AI systems may also increase the cost of our offerings. The AI capabilities of our platform and solutions could potentially have actual or perceived impacts on privacy, employment and civil rights. Our failure to adequately address legal risks relating to AI in our platform and solutions could result in litigation regarding, among other things, intellectual property, privacy, employment, civil rights and other claims that could result in liability for our company. Countries are applying their data protection laws to AI, particularly generative AI, and are considering legal frameworks on AI. For example, the European Unions Artificial Intelligence Act (the EU AI Act), which was formally adopted in 2024, and certain provisions of which came into force in 2025, prohibits certain AI applications and systems with unacceptable risk and imposes additional requirements on the use of other high-risk or limited-risk AI applications or systems, which may require the implementation of additional quality assurance controls and measures. Intellectual property ownership issues, licensing and privacy rights surrounding AI technologies are evolving and have not been fully addressed by U.S. federal or state courts or foreign jurisdictions, which may expose us to claims of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation or privacy rights violations, or result in inquiries by government bodies or agencies. The introduction of AI technologies, including generative AI, into new or existing products could result in a failure or perceived failure to comply with such legal requirements and may also result in new or increased governmental or regulatory scrutiny, which could result in regulatory action and liability. Additionally, actions taken by our clients and employees, including through the use or misuse of our products or new technologies for illegal activities or improper information sharing, may result in reputational harm or possible liability. The use of our AI capabilities could raise ethical or social concerns and our failure to adequately address these concerns or the failure of our competitors, clients or other end users to do so could negatively impact our brand and reputation. If we are unable to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our solutions, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our ability to attract new clients and increase revenues from our existing clients depends, in part, on our continued ability to enhance the functionality of the existing solutions on the Intapp Intelligent Cloud by developing, introducing, and marketing new and enhanced versions of our solutions that address the evolving needs of our clients and changing industry standards. Because some of our solutions are complex and require rigorous testing, development cycles can be lengthy and can require months or even years of development, depending upon the solution and other factors. As we expand internationally, our products and services must be modified and adapted to comply with regulations and other requirements of the countries in which our clients do business. Additionally, market conditions, including heightened pressure on clients from end users relating to mobile computing devices and speed of delivery, may dictate that we change the technology platform underlying our existing solutions or that new solutions be developed on different technology platforms, potentially adding significant time and expense to our development cycles. The nature of these development cycles may cause us to experience delays between the time we incur expenses associated with research and development and the time we generate revenues, if any, from such expenses. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to develop new solutions or enhancements to our existing solutions, our business could be adversely affected, especially if our competitors are able to introduce solutions with enhanced functionality. It is critical to our success for us to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards, regulations and client requirements and to successfully introduce new, enhanced, and competitive solutions to meet our clients and prospective clients needs on a timely basis. We have invested and intend to continue to make significant investments in research and development to meet these challenges. However, we may not recognize significant revenues from these investments for several months or years, if at all. Our estimates of research and development expenses may be too low, revenues may not be sufficient to support the future product development that is required for us to remain competitive and development cycles may be longer than anticipated. Further, there is no assurance that research and development expenditures will lead to successful solutions or enhancements to our existing solutions, or that our clients will value or be willing to bear the cost of our new solutions. If we incur significant expenses developing solutions that are not competitive in technology and price or that fail to meet client demands, our market share will decline and our business and results of operations would be harmed. If we are unable to develop or sell our solutions into new markets or to further penetrate existing markets, our revenues will not grow as expected, and if our established solutions fail to satisfy client demands or maintain market acceptance, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our ability to increase revenues will depend, in large part, on our ability to further penetrate our existing markets and to attract new clients, as well as our ability to generate subscription renewals from existing clients and to increase sales from existing clients who do not utilize the full Intapp Intelligent Cloud. The success of any enhancement or new solution or service depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of enhanced or new solutions, adaptation to new industry standards that our solutions address and technological changes, the ability to maintain and to develop relationships with third parties and the ability to attract, retain and effectively train sales, services, support and marketing personnel. Any new solutions we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. Any new industry standards or practices that emerge, or any introduction by competitors of new solutions embodying new services or technologies, may cause our solutions to become obsolete. Any new markets in which we attempt to sell our solutions, including new countries or regions, may not be receptive or sales cycles may be delayed due to pandemics or other public health emergencies, political instabilities and the global economic downturn. Additionally, any expansion into new markets will require commensurate ongoing expansion of our monitoring of local laws and regulations, which increases our costs. Our ability to further penetrate our existing markets depends on the quality of our solutions and our ability to design our solutions to meet changing consumer demands and industry standards, as well as our ability to assure that our clients will be satisfied with our existing and new solutions. If we are unable to sell our solutions into new markets or to further penetrate existing markets, or to increase sales from existing clients by selling them additional software and services, our revenues will not grow as expected, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues and cash flows from our established solutions. Demand for our solutions is affected by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the successful implementation of our solutions, the timing of development and release of new solutions by us and our competitors, technological advances which reduce the appeal of our solutions, changes in regulations that our clients must comply with in the jurisdictions in which they operate and the growth or contraction in the worldwide market for technological solutions for the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries. If we are unable to continue to meet client demands, to achieve and maintain a technological advantage over competitors, or to maintain market acceptance of our solutions, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects would be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We compete in highly competitive markets, and if we do not compete effectively, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be negatively impacted and cause our market share to decline. The markets for our solutions and services are rapidly evolving and highly competitive. As these markets continue to mature and new technologies and competitors enter such markets, we expect competition to intensify. Our current competitors include large solution providers that focus on one or more point solutions, legacy systems, and manual processes or internally built technology solutions developed by or for our clients, new or emerging entrants seeking to develop competing technologies, including those with AI and generative AI capabilities, and well-established horizontal solution providers that provide broad solutions across multiple industries. Specifically, we compete from time to time with large software companies such as SAP and Salesforce. The competitors we face in any sale may change depending on, among other things, the line of business, functional or regional group or department purchasing the solution, the solution being sold, the geography in which we are operating and the size of the client to which we are selling. We compete based on various factors, including unique product features or functions, configurability, price and the time and cost required for software implementation. Outside of the United States, we are more likely to compete against vendors that may further differentiate themselves based on local advantages in language or market knowledge. Some of our current and potential competitors may have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, and other resources than we do, as well as larger installed client bases. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships or engage in other strategic transactions among themselves or with third parties, including our clients, to further enhance their resources and offerings. As a result, such competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their solutions than we can devote to ours, which could allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in client needs, thus leading to their wider market acceptance. Existing relationships with our competitors may make those clients less willing to purchase our solutions. For instance, if a potential client uses one product from a competitor that powers a critical element of the clients day-to-day operations, they may be more likely to turn to such competitor in the future to the extent they require further product solutions, rather than purchasing one or more solutions from us. If we are unable to compete effectively with these evolving competitors for market share, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our industry is evolving rapidly and we anticipate the market for solutions will become increasingly competitive as our current and potential clients move a greater proportion of their data and computational needs to the cloud or to future generation technologies. New competitors may emerge that offer services either comparable or better suited than ours to address the demand for such solutions, which could reduce demand for our offerings. Moreover, as we continue to build AI into many of our offerings, we face more competition as AI technologies are increasingly integrated into the markets in which we compete. Our competitors may be able to incorporate AI into their offerings more efficiently or successfully than we are able to and achieve greater and faster adoption. Continuing intense competition could result in increased pricing pressure, increased sales and marketing expenses, increased expenses associated with personnel and third-party services and greater investments in research and development, each of which could negatively impact our profitability. In addition, the failure to increase, or the loss of market share, would harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, and/or future prospects. 21 Table of Contents If the market for SaaS solutions, including those with AI and generative AI capabilities, for accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries develops slower than we expect or declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While the market for SaaS solutions, including those with AI and generative AI capabilities, for the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries is growing, it is uncertain whether our SaaS solutions will achieve and sustain high levels of client demand and market acceptance, particularly in the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries. Many accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets firms use on-premises software applications, including some who have invested substantial resources to integrate a variety of point solutions into their organizations to address one or more specific business needs and, therefore, may be reluctant to switch to SaaS solutions. Our success substantially depends on the adoption of cloud computing and SaaS solutions in the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries, which may be affected by, among other things, the widespread acceptance of cloud computing and SaaS solutions in other industries and in general. Market acceptance of our SaaS solutions may be affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: price, security, reliability, performance, client preference, public concerns regarding privacy and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations. It is difficult to predict client adoption rates and demand for our SaaS solutions, the future growth rate and size of the cloud computing market or the entry of other competitive applications. If we or other providers of cloud-based computing in general, and in the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries in particular, experience security incidents, loss of client data, disruptions in delivery, or other problems, the market for cloud computing applications as a whole, including our SaaS solutions, may be negatively affected. If there is a reduction in demand for cloud computing caused by a lack of client acceptance, technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, security or privacy concerns, competing technologies and solutions, reductions in corporate spending or other reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may continue to expand through acquisitions or partnerships with other companies, which may divert our managements attention and result in unexpected operating and technology integration difficulties, increased costs, and dilution to our stockholders. We expect to continue to grow, in part, by making targeted acquisitions and strategic investments. Our business strategy includes the potential acquisition of shares or assets of, or alliances with companies with software, technologies or businesses complementary to ours, both domestically and globally. For example, in fiscal year 2025, we acquired TermSheet, LLC, a provider of software for real estate teams. Acquisitions and alliances may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may not result in the benefits anticipated by such corporate activity. In particular, we may fail to assimilate or integrate the businesses, technologies, services, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, retain key personnel necessary to favorably execute the combined companies business plan, or retain existing clients or sell acquired products to new clients. Additionally, the assumptions we use to evaluate acquisition opportunities may not prove to be accurate, and intended benefits may not be realized. Our due diligence investigations may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other challenges associated with an acquired business which could result in increased risk of unanticipated or unknown issues or liabilities, including with respect to privacy, environmental, competition and other regulatory matters, and our mitigation strategies for such risks that are identified may not be effective. As a result, we may not achieve some or any of the benefits, including anticipated synergies or accretion to earnings, that we expect to achieve in connection with our acquisitions, or we may not accurately anticipate the fixed and other costs associated with such acquisitions, or the business may not achieve the performance we anticipated, which may materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, as well as our stock price. Further, if we fail to achieve the expected synergies from our acquisitions and alliances, particularly if business performance declines or expected growth is not realized, we may experience impairment charges with respect to goodwill, intangible or other long-lived assets. Any future impairment of our goodwill or intangible or other long-lived assets could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Acquisitions and alliances may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our current business. In addition, we may be required to make additional capital investments or undertake remediation efforts to ensure the success of our acquisitions, which may reduce the benefits of such acquisitions. We also may be required to use a substantial amount of our cash or issue debt or equity securities to complete an acquisition or realize the potential of an alliance, which could deplete our cash reserves and/or dilute our existing stockholders. In addition, our ability to maintain favorable pricing of new solutions may be challenging if we bundle such solutions with sales of existing solutions. Reduced pricing due to bundled sales may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results, may adversely affect our operating margins and may reduce the benefits of such acquisitions or alliances. Additionally, competition within the software industry for acquisitions of businesses, technologies and assets has been, and is expected to continue to be, intense. As such, even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to pursue, the target may be acquired by another strategic buyer or financial buyer such as a private equity firm, or we may otherwise not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Moreover, in addition to our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, including our revenues or return on investment assumptions, we may be exposed to unknown liabilities or impairment charges as a result of acquisitions we do complete. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. We operate globally, sell our services to more than 2,700 clients in more than 62 countries, and have employees and contractors in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. We plan to continue to expand our international presence in the future, which will place additional demands on our resources and operations. Additionally, we continue to increase the breadth and scope of our Intapp Intelligent Cloud and our operations and we continue to develop our partner network. In order to successfully manage our future growth, we will need to continue to add and retain qualified personnel across our operations; improve our IT and financial infrastructures, our operating and administrative systems, and our ability to manage headcount, capital, and internal processes in an efficient manner and deepen our industry experience in key industries. Our organizational structure is also becoming more complex as we grow our operational, financial, and management infrastructure and we must continue to improve our internal control over financial reporting as well as our disclosure systems and procedures. We intend to continue to invest to expand our business, including investing in technology, sales and marketing operations, developing new solutions and features for our existing solutions, hiring additional personnel, and upgrading our infrastructure. These investments will require significant capital expenditures and may divert management and financial resources from other projects, such as the development of new solutions, and any investments we make will occur in advance of experiencing the benefits from such investments, making it difficult to determine in a timely manner if we are efficiently allocating our resources. We continue to assess our facilities requirements and may deem it advisable in the near-term or later to add new offices or downsize certain of our offices in order to reduce costs, which may cause us to incur related charges. As we continue to evaluate our real estate needs, we may incur additional charges in the future in connection with exit activities. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our solutions address functions within the heavily regulated accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries, and our clients failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to litigation. We sell our solutions to clients within the accounting, consulting, investment banking, legal, private capital and real assets industries. Our clients use our solutions for business activities that are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including state and local legal, accounting, and other types of professional ethics rules. Any failure by our clients to comply with laws and regulations applicable to their businesses, and in particular to the functions for which our solutions are used, could result in fines, penalties or claims for substantial damages against our clients. To the extent our clients believe that such failures were caused by our solutions or our client service organization, our clients may make a claim for damages against us, regardless of whether we are responsible for the failure. We may be subject to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could divert our resources and our managements attention and adversely affect our business, and our insurance coverage may exclude coverage for some claims or may not be sufficient to cover such claims against us. 23 Table of Contents Our solutions or pricing models may not accurately reflect the optimal pricing necessary to attract new clients and retain existing clients as the market matures. As the market for our solutions matures, or as competitors introduce new solutions that compete with ours, we may be unable to attract new clients at the same price or based on the same pricing models as we have used historically. We price our solutions based on an enterprise size basis with enterprise-wide access to our solutions or based on the number of individual users, and therefore, pricing decisions may also impact the mix of adoption among our subscription plans and negatively impact our overall revenues. Further, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses, or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In the future, we may be required to reduce our prices or develop new pricing models, which could adversely affect our revenues, gross margin, profitability, financial position, and cash flow. Our loan and security agreement provides our lender with a first-priority lien against substantially all of our assets and contains restrictive covenants which could limit our operational flexibility and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. Our loan and security agreement under our revolving credit facility contains a number of covenants that limit our ability to incur debt, grant liens, make acquisitions, undergo a change in control, make investments, make certain dividends or distributions, repurchase or redeem stock, dispose of or transfer assets, and enter into transactions with affiliates. Our loan and security agreement is secured by substantially all of our assets. The terms of our loan and security agreement may restrict our current and future operations and could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to execute preferred business strategies. In addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. Additionally, if we incur debt under the facility in the future, our obligations to repay principal and interest on our indebtedness make us vulnerable to economic or market downturns. As of June 30, 2025, we had no outstanding loan balance under this facility. Our failure to comply with the covenants or payment requirements, or other events specified in our loan and security agreement, could result in an event of default and our lender may accelerate our obligations under our loan and security agreement and foreclose upon the collateral, or we may be forced to sell assets, restructure our indebtedness, or seek additional equity capital, which would dilute our stockholders interests. Our failure to comply with any covenant could result in an event of default under the agreement and the lender could make the entire debt immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we might not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing is available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our ability to sell and renew our solutions is dependent in part on the quality of our implementation services and technical support services and the implementation services provided by our partners, and our failure to offer high-quality implementation services or technical support services or our partners failure to offering high-quality implementation services could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to sell our solutions to new clients and renew agreements with our existing clients. Our solutions are complex and are used in a wide variety of environments. Our revenues and profitability depend in part on the reliability and performance of our implementation services, training services and technical support services, some of which are provided through partners that can provide services for our solutions to clients. If our implementation services are unavailable, or clients are dissatisfied with our or our partners performance, we could lose clients, our revenues and profitability would decrease and our business operations or financial position could be harmed. Additionally, if our solutions are not used correctly or as intended, inadequate performance may result. Because our clients rely on our solutions to manage a wide range of operations, a failure to properly train clients on how to efficiently and effectively use our solutions, could result in negative publicity or legal claims against us. As we grow internationally, we may face additional challenges and costs in delivering implementation services and training in languages other than English. 24 Table of Contents Unexpected delays and difficulties can occur as clients implement and test our solutions. Implementing our solutions typically involves integration with our clients and third-partys systems, as well as adding client and third-party data to our platform. This can be complex, time consuming, and expensive for our clients and can result in delays in the implementation of our solutions. We also provide our clients with upfront estimates regarding the duration, resources and costs associated with the implementation of our solutions. Failure to meet these upfront estimates and the expectations of our clients for the implementation of our solutions could result in a loss of clients and negative publicity about us and our solutions and implementation services. Such failure could result from deficiencies in our solution capabilities or inadequate professional service engagements performed by us, our partners or our clients employees, the latter two of which are beyond our direct control. Time-consuming implementations may also increase the amount of services personnel we must allocate to each client, thereby increasing our costs and consequently the cost to our clients and adversely affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Once our solutions are implemented and integrated with our clients existing IT investments and data, our clients may depend on our technical support services to resolve any issues relating to our solutions. High-quality support is critical for the continued successful marketing and sale of our solutions and renewal of contracts. In addition, as we continue to expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support in languages other than English. Many enterprise clients require higher levels of support than smaller clients. If we fail to meet the requirements of our larger clients, it may be more difficult to sell additional solutions and implementation services to these clients, a key group for the growth of our revenues and profitability. The implementation, provision and support of our solutions also creates the risk of significant liability claims against us. Our subscription arrangements with our clients contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in such agreements may not be enforced as a result of international, federal, state and local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. Breach of warranty or damage liability, or injunctive relief resulting from such claims, could harm our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as we further expand our solutions, our implementation services and support organization will face new challenges, including hiring, training and integrating a large number of new implementation services personnel with experience in delivering high-quality support for our solutions. Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures which could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. Further, as we continue to rely on our partners to provide implementation and on-going services, our ability to ensure a high level of quality in addressing client issues will be diminished. If our partners fail to meet such commitments or do not commit sufficient or qualified resources to these activities, our clients will be less satisfied, be less supportive with references, or may require the investment of our resources at discounted rates. Our sales are dependent on our business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing clients. Accordingly, if we or our partners do not effectively assist our clients in implementing our solutions, train our clients in the use of our solutions, succeed in helping our clients quickly resolve post-implementation issues, our ability to sell additional solutions and implementation services to existing clients would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential clients could be damaged, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects. 25 Table of Contents Real or perceived errors or failures in our solutions may affect our reputation, cause us to lose clients and reduce sales which may harm our business and results of operations. As with all software solutions, undetected errors or failures may exist or occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released, implemented or integrated into other systems. Our software solutions are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different third-party applications operating systems, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our solutions or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our solutions. Despite testing by us, we may not identify all errors, failures, or bugs in new solutions or releases until after commencement of commercial sales or installation. In the past, we have discovered errors, failures, and bugs in some of our solutions after their introduction. We may not be able to fix errors, failures, and bugs without incurring significant costs or an adverse impact to our business. We believe that our reputation and name recognition are critical factors in our ability to compete and generate additional sales. Promotion and enhancement of our name will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide effective solutions and services. The occurrence of errors in our solutions or the detection of bugs by our clients may damage our reputation in the market and our relationships with our existing clients, and as a result, we may be unable to attract or retain clients. Any of these events may result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our solutions, which could seriously harm our sales, results of operations, and financial condition. Changes in laws, regulations, or guidance issued by supervisory authorities relating to privacy or the protection or transfer of personal data, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws, regulations, or guidance, could adversely affect our business and could subject us to liability, fines and reputational harm. Data protection and privacy legislation, enforcement and policy activity are rapidly expanding in the United States and around the world and creating a complex compliance environment and the potential for high profile negative publicity in the event of any noncompliance or data breach. We are subject to many privacy and data protection laws and regulations in the United States and around the world, some of which place restrictions on our ability to process and store personal data across our business. For example, in Europe Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR) imposes requirements relating to, among other things, consent to process personal data of individuals, the information provided to individuals regarding the processing of their personal data, rights which may be exercised by individuals, the security and confidentiality of personal data, and notifications in the event of data breaches and use of third-party processors. The GDPR imposes substantial fines for breaches of data protection requirements, which can be up to four percent of the worldwide revenues or 20 million euros, whichever is greater. Despite the U.K.s exit from the E.U., the U.K. still also has laws equivalent to the GDPR/EU data protection laws. We may experience hesitancy, reluctance, or refusal by European or multi-national clients to continue to use some of our services due to the potential risk exposure of personal data transfers and the current data protection obligations imposed on them by certain data protection authorities. Such clients may also view any alternative approaches to the transfer of any personal data as being too costly, too burdensome, or otherwise objectionable, and therefore may decide not to do business with us if the transfer of personal data is a necessity or may require that our employees who are providing services to them be based in the European Union/UK which could increase our costs in providing such services. Uncertainty about compliance with the GDPR and EU data protection laws remains, with the possibilities that data protection authorities located in different EU Member States may interpret GDPR differently, or requirements of national laws may vary between the EU Member States, or guidance on GDPR and compliance practices may be often updated or otherwise revised. Any of these events will increase the complexity and costs of processing personal data in the UK or European Economic Area or concerning individuals located in the UK or European Economic Area (EEA). 26 Table of Contents Under GDPR, transfers of personal data to countries outside of the European Economic Area that have not been determined by the European Commission to provide adequate protections for personal data, including the United States, are prohibited unless certain transfer mechanisms are used. Switzerland and the U.K. have similar restrictions. However, such mechanisms are subject to consistent scrutiny and challenge. A decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union in July 2020 invalidated the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework, a means that previously permitted transfers of personal data from the EEA to companies in the United States that certified adherence to the Privacy Shield Framework. While the United States and EU have put in place a new framework to replace the Privacy Shield Framework, the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework, this framework is already subject to challenge in the Court of Justice of the European Union, so there can be no assurance that it will not be invalidated, repealed or otherwise modified in the future. There are also Swiss and U.K. extensions to the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework. In addition, that same Court of Justice of the European Union decision also cast doubt on the use of a prior form of standard contractual clauses that are the other commonly used mechanism to transfer personal data outside of the EEA/U.K. In the U.K. and the EEA, there are now updated form versions of standard contractual clauses and a need to conduct a transfer risk assessment in accordance with applicable guidance. With respect to personal data transfers from the EU to the U.K. and U.K. to the EU, there are adequacy decisions in place meaning personal data can transfer freely for the time being. Given the consistent scrutiny and challenge to data transfers, further changes to how data transfers to and from the European Union and other jurisdictions are regulated could impact how we provide services to our clients in relevant jurisdictions. The CCPA imposes requirements relating to how companies may collect, use and process personal information relating to California residents. The CCPA establishes a privacy framework for covered businesses such as ours by, among other things, creating an expanded definition of personal information, establishing new data privacy rights for California residents and creating a new and potentially severe statutory damages framework for violations of the CCPA, as well as potentially severe statutory damages and private a right of action against businesses that suffer a data security breach due to their violation of a duty to implement reasonable security procedures and practices. This private right of action may increase the likelihood of, and risks associated with, data breach litigation. In addition, in November 2020, California voters adopted the CPRA, which enhances and strengthens regulatory requirements and individual protections that currently exist under the CCPA. Since the CRPA took effect in January 2023, the California Privacy Protection Agency (CPPA) has commenced formal rulemaking activities to update existing CCPA regulations, implement regulations for certain businesses to conduct risk assessments and conduct annual cybersecurity audits. Numerous other states have enacted or are considering enacting similar privacy laws, further complicating our privacy compliance obligations through the introduction of increasingly disparate requirements across the various U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate. Congress is also considering legislation that may preempt some or all of such U.S. state privacy laws, but which may also provide a more expansive private right of action for privacy claims than exists under current state laws. Further, privacy class actions in the United States are on the rise, with cases being filed based on pre-digital age state and federal laws. The evolving complexity of privacy and data security legislation in the United States may complicate our compliance efforts and further increase our risk of regulatory enforcement, penalties and litigation. The uncertainty and changes in the requirements of California and other jurisdictions, including potential federal legislation regarding data privacy that may impose requirements and potentially preempt state data privacy rules, may increase the cost of compliance, restrict our ability to offer services in certain locations or subject us to sanctions by national, regional, state, local and international data protection regulators, all of which could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. 27 Table of Contents Although we take reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable laws and regulations and have invested and continue to invest human and technology resources into data privacy compliance efforts, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to regulatory action, including fines, in the event of an incident or other claim. Data protection laws and requirements may also be enacted, interpreted or applied in a manner that creates inconsistent or contradictory requirements on companies that operate across jurisdictions. We or our third-party service providers could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our or our third-party service providers business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our or our third-party service providers business, results of operations or financial condition. For example, the European Unions Data Act (the EU Data Act), which takes effect in September 2025, expands data access and exportability rights to users based in the EU. Additionally, for example, we may find it necessary to establish alternative systems to maintain personal data originating from the European Union in the European Economic Area, which may involve substantial expense and may cause us to divert resources from other aspects of our business, all of which may adversely affect our results from operations. Data protection legislation and regulatory and contractual requirements could hamper our ability to use data to train our artificial intelligence algorithms. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns in connection with our solutions, or to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, and adversely affect our ability to offer our solutions. Further, countries are applying their data protection laws to AI, and particularly generative AI, and are considering legal frameworks on AI. For example, the EU AI Act, with certain provisions taking effect beginning in 2025, establishes such a framework within the EU. These evolving regulations, including but not limited to the CPPAs proposed rulemaking, the EU Data Act and EU AI Act, will continue to have broad impact on the information technology, data privacy, and security landscape. Any failure or perceived failure to comply with such requirements could have an adverse impact on our business. Anticipated further evolution of regulations on this topic may substantially increase the penalties to which we could be subject in the event of any non-compliance. Compliance with these laws is challenging, constantly evolving, and time consuming and federal regulators, state attorneys general and plaintiffs attorneys have been and will likely continue to be active in this space. We may incur substantial expense in complying with legal obligations to be imposed by new regulations and we may be required to make significant changes to our solutions and expanding business operations all of which may adversely affect our results of operations. Assertions against us, by third parties alleging infringement or other violation of their intellectual property rights, could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the software industry own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims against us. From time to time, third parties holding such intellectual property rights, including leading companies, competitors, patent holding companies, and/or non-practicing entities, may assert patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property claims against us, our clients, and partners, and those from whom we license technology and intellectual property. Although we believe that our solutions do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, we cannot assure that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to current or future solutions, or that any such assertions will not require us to enter into royalty arrangements or result in costly litigation, or result in us being unable to use certain intellectual property. Infringement assertions from third parties may involve patent holding companies or other patent owners who have no relevant product revenues, and therefore our own issued and pending patents may provide little or no deterrence to these patent owners in bringing intellectual property rights claims against us. The intellectual property ownership and license rights, including without limitation copyright, surrounding AI technologies generally, and generative AI technologies specifically, has not been fully addressed by courts or applicable laws or regulations. Further, the use or adoption of third-party AI technologies, including generative AI technologies, into our products and services may result in exposure to claims of copyright infringement or other intellectual property-related causes of action. 28 Table of Contents If we are forced to defend against any infringement or misappropriation claims, whether they are with or without merit, are settled out of court, or are determined in our favor, we may be required to expend significant time and financial resources on the defense of such claims. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, such a claim could harm our brand and business. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a partys intellectual property; cease making, licensing or using our solutions that are alleged to infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to redesign our solutions; enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or works; and indemnify our partners, clients and other third parties. Any of these events could seriously harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Failure to protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to enforce and defend our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent, and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to do so. In the future we may file patent applications related to certain of our innovations. We do not know whether those patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. In addition, we may not receive competitive advantages from the rights granted under our patents and other intellectual property. Our existing patents and any patents granted to us or that we otherwise acquire in the future, may be contested, circumvented or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing these patents. Therefore, the extent of the protection afforded by these patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, given the costs, effort, risks, and downside of obtaining patent protection, including the requirement to ultimately disclose the invention to the public, we may choose not to seek patent protection for certain innovations; however, such patent protection could later prove to be important to our business. We also rely on several registered and unregistered trademarks to protect our brand. Nevertheless, competitors may adopt service names similar to ours, or purchase our trademarks and confusingly similar terms as keywords in Internet search engine advertising programs, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to confusion in the marketplace. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our trademarks. Any claims or client confusion related to our trademarks could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. We attempt to protect our intellectual property, technology and confidential information by generally requiring our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements and third parties to enter into nondisclosure agreements, all of which offer only limited protection. These agreements may not effectively prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property, or technology and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property or technology. Despite our efforts to protect our confidential information, intellectual property, and technology, unauthorized third parties may gain access to our confidential proprietary information, develop and market solutions similar to ours, or use trademarks similar to ours, any of which could materially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and confidential information, and in such cases, we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Existing United States federal, state and international intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as governmental agencies and private parties in the United States. Moreover, policing our intellectual property rights is difficult, costly and may not always be effective. In addition, the availability of copyright protection and other legal protections for intellectual property generated by certain new technologies, such as generative AI, is uncertain. The use of generative AI and other forms of AI may expose us to risks because the intellectual property ownership and license rights, including copyright, of generative and other AI output has not been fully settled in the United States or abroad. 29 Table of Contents From time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Even if we are successful in defending our claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. To the extent that we seek to enforce our rights, we could be subject to claims that an intellectual property right is invalid, otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are pursuing a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights may result in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights or assert other claims against us, which could harm our business. If we are not successful in defending such claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell or license a particular solution due to an injunction, or we may have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of operations. In addition, governments may adopt regulations, or courts may render decisions, requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property to others, or governments may require that products meet specified standards that serve to favor local companies. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive position and our business. If we are unable to protect our technology and to adequately maintain and protect our intellectual property rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative solutions that have enabled us to be successful to date. We and our clients rely on technology and intellectual property of third parties, and any errors or defects in, or any unavailability of, such technology and intellectual property could limit the functionality of our solutions and disrupt our business. We use technology and intellectual property licensed from unaffiliated third parties internally and in certain of our solutions, and we may license additional third-party technology and intellectual property in the future. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, errors or defects in this third-party technology and intellectual property that result in errors that could harm our brand and business. In addition, licensed technology and intellectual property may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of the right to license and distribute this third-party technology could limit the functionality of our solutions and might require us to redesign our solutions. In some cases, we receive subscription fees from the provision of such third-party technology to our clients, and the loss of the right to distribute such technology could negatively impact revenues. We agree to indemnify clients and other third parties, which exposes us to substantial potential liability. Our agreements with clients, suppliers, partners and other third parties may include indemnification or other provisions under which we agree to indemnify or otherwise be liable to them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, damages caused by us to property or persons, and other liabilities relating to or arising from our software, services, acts or omissions. The term of these contractual provisions often survives termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large indemnity payments or damage claims from contractual breach could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although in some cases we contractually limit our liability with respect to such obligations, we do not always do so, and in the future we may still incur substantial liability related to them. Any dispute with a client with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with that client and other current and prospective clients, reduce demand for our solutions, and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. Our disclosure controls and other procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and that information required to be disclosed in reports under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our principal executive and financial officers. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure