Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The purpose of this Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is to provide an understanding of IGC Pharma, Inc.s (IGC, the Company, we, our, and/or us) consolidated financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed financial statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended June 30, 2023, and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, filed with the SEC on July 7, 2023 (the 2023 Form 10-K). The Companys actual results could differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause differences include those discussed in the Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors sections and discussed elsewhere in this report. The risks and uncertainties can cause actual results to differ significantly from those in our forward-looking statements or implied in historical results and trends. Accordingly, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements made by us, which speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation, except as expressly required by law and the rules of the SEC, to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those outlined in the forward-looking statements. Overview IGC Pharma, Inc. is a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company with a diversified revenue model that develops both prescription drugs and over-the-counter (OTC) products. Our focus is on developing innovative therapies for neurological disorders such as Alzheimers disease, epilepsy, Tourette syndrome, and sleep disorders. We also focus on formulations for eating disorders, chronic pain, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), and dysmenorrhea, in addition to health and wellness OTC formulations. The Company is developing its lead candidate, IGC-AD1, an investigational oral therapy for the treatment of agitation associated with Alzheimers disease. IGC-AD1 is currently in Phase 2 (Phase 2B) clinical trials after completing nearly a decade of research and realizing positive results from pre-clinical and a Phase 1 trial. This previous research into IGC-AD1 has demonstrated efficacy in reducing plaques and tangles, which are two important hallmarks of Alzheimers, as well as reducing neuropsychiatric symptoms associated with dementia in Alzheimers disease, such as agitation. We were formerly known as India Globalization Capital, Inc. and incorporated in Maryland on April 29, 2005. Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending March 31. Currently, most of our revenue comes from the Life Sciences segment and, in the future, we believe, from our investigational drugs for treating Alzheimers disease. We have also built a facility for a potential Phase 3 trial and have strategic relations for the procurement of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs). In addition, we have acquired and initiated work on TGR-63, a pre-clinical molecule that exhibits an impressive affinity for reducing neurotoxicity in Alzheimers cell lines. The advancement of IGC-AD1 into Phase 2 trials represents a significant milestone for the company and positions us for multiple pathways to future success. Although there can be no assurance, we anticipate that the positive outcomes from these and other trials will drive further growth, valuation, and market potential for IGC-AD1. IGC has two segments: Life Sciences and Infrastructure. Life Sciences Segment Pharmaceutical: Since 2014, the Company has focused primarily on the potential uses of phytocannabinoids, in combination with other compounds, to treat multiple diseases, such as Alzheimers disease. As a company engaged in the clinical-stage pharmaceutical industry, we focus our research and development efforts, subject to results of future clinical trials, on seeking pharmaceutical solutions that may a) alleviate neuropsychiatric symptoms such as agitation, anxiety, and depression associated with dementia in Alzheimers disease and b) halt the onset, progression, or cure Alzheimers disease. The Company currently has two main investigational small molecules in various stages of development: 1) IGC-AD1, our proprietary lead therapeutic candidate, is a Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) based formulation that has demonstrated in Alzheimers cell lines, the potential to reduce the buildup of A plaques and the potential to decrease or inhibit the phosphorylation of tau, a protein that is responsible for the formation of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), both important hallmarks of Alzheimers. In addition, Phase 1 human trial results demonstrated IGC-AD1s potential to reduce agitation in dementia due to Alzheimers. IGC-AD1 is currently in Phase 2B trials for treating agitation in dementia from Alzheimers, a condition that affects over 10-million individuals in North America and Europe, and | June 30, 2023, Form 10-Q 20 Table of Contents 2) TGR-63, is a non-cannabinoid small molecule that has shown promise in pre-clinical trials for reducing amyloid burden in an Alzheimers disease model. In Alzheimers, the accumulation of beta-amyloid protein in the brain leads to the formation of A plaques, which are associated with neurotoxicity and cell dysfunction, ultimately leading to cell death and cognitive decline. The potential efficacy of TGR-63 lies in its ability to inhibit the aggregation of beta-amyloid. If shown to be safe and efficacious in human trials in reducing the formation of A plaques, this molecule could halt the neurotoxic process caused by beta-amyloid, thereby preventing, or treating Alzheimers. Currently, IGC-AD1 is in a Phase 2B safety and efficacy clinical trial for agitation in dementia from Alzheimers (clinicaltrials.gov, NCT05543681). The progress we are making in the clinic, gives us confidence in the potential of IGC-AD1 as a potentially groundbreaking therapy, with the potential to treat Alzheimers and also to manage devastating symptoms that separate families, increase admissions to nursing homes, and drive the cost of Alzheimers care, although there can be no assurance. We have a two-pronged approach for our Alzheimers investigational drug development strategy, the first prong is to investigate IGC-AD1 as an Alzheimers symptoms modifying agent, and the second is to investigate TGR-63 as a disease modifying agent. This involves conducting more trials on IGC-AD1 over the next few years, subject to FDA approval, with, although there can be no assurance, the anticipated goal of demonstrating safety and efficacy and potentially obtaining FDA approval for IGC-AD1 as a cannabinoid-based new drug that can help to manage agitation for patients suffering from Alzheimers disease. The second prong is to investigate the potential efficacy of TGR-63 on memory and/or decreasing or managing plaques and tangles, some of the hallmarks of Alzheimers disease. Although there can be no assurance, we believe that additional investment in clinical trials, research, and development (R&D), facilities, marketing, advertising, and acquisition of complementary products and businesses supporting our Life Sciences segment will be critical to the development and delivery of innovative products and positive patient and customer experiences. We hope to leverage our R&D and intellectual property to develop ground-breaking, science-based products that are proven effective through planned pre-clinical and clinical trials. Although there can be no assurance, we believe this strategy has the potential to improve existing products and lead to the creation of new products, which, based on scientific study and research, may offer positive results for the management of certain conditions, symptoms, and side effects. While the bulk of our medium and longer-term focus is on clinical trials and getting IGC-AD1 to be an FDA approved drug, our shorter-term strategy, is to use our resources to provide white label services and market Holief. We believe this may provide us with several profit opportunities, although there can be no assurance of such profit opportunities. Over-the-Counter Products: We have created a womens wellness brand, Holief available through online channels that are compliant with relevant federal, state, and local laws, and regulations. Holief is an all-natural, non-GMO, vegan, line of over-the-counter (OTC) products aimed at treating menstrual cramps (dysmenorrhea) and premenstrual syndrome (PMS). The products are available online and through Amazon and other online channels. Infrastructure Segment The Companys infrastructure business has been operating since 2008, it includes: (i) Execution of Construction Contracts and (ii) Rental of Heavy Construction Equipment. Company Highlights During the three months ended June 30, 2023, the Company generated approximately $555 thousand in revenue, representing an increase of approximately $343 thousand, or 161%, compared to the approximately $212 thousand recorded during the three months ended June 30, 2022. On June 30, 2023, the Company secured a $12 million revolving line of credit from the Hong Kong Branch of O-Bank Co. Ltd. (O-Bank or the Bank). This funding will support the working capital needs of the Company, primarily related to Alzheimers research. On June 30, 2023, the Company entered into the Share Purchase Agreement (SPA), and under the terms of the SPA, the Company issued 10 million shares of unregistered common stock at a price of $0.3 per share. On June 6, 2023, the Company received a Notice of Allowance from the Commissioner of Patents, Canada, for its patent filing on the use of cannabinoids in the treatment of seizures (IGC-501). The formulation also received an intent to grant from the European Patent Office, protecting the formulation in the U.S., Canada, and certain European countries. | June 30, 2023, Form 10-Q 21 Table of Contents Business Strategy The Life Sciences business strategy includes: 1. Subject to FDA approval, developing IGC-AD1 as a drug for treating agitation in dementia due to Alzheimers and investigating and developing TGR-63 for the potential treatment of Alzheimers disease. 2. Marketing HoliefTM, and formulations. We believe developing a drug for both symptom and disease-modifying agent has less risk due to the need for expensive multi-year trials. However, there is considerable upside and significant value creation to the extent we obtain a first-in-class advantage, of which there can be no assurance. If we were to obtain a first-in-class advantage, such an advantage could result in significant growth if and when an approved drug such as IGC-AD1 launches. We believe that additional investment in clinical trials, artificial intelligence (AI"), research, and development (R&D), facilities, marketing, advertising, and acquisition of complementary products and businesses will be critical to the ongoing growth of the Life Sciences segment. Although there can be no assurance, we believe these investments will fuel the development and delivery of innovative products that drive positive patient and customer experiences. We hope to leverage our R&D and intellectual property to develop ground-breaking, science-based products that are proven effective through clinical trials, subject to FDA approval. Although there can be no assurance, we believe this strategy can improve our existing products and lead to the creation of new products that can provide treatment options for multiple conditions, symptoms, and side effects. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended June 30, 2023, and June 30, 2022 The results presented below are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period. The following table presents an overview of our results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2023, and June 30, 2022: Statement of Operations (in thousands, unaudited) Three months ended June 30, 2023($) 2022($) Change($) Percent Change Revenue 555 212 343 161 % Cost of revenue (300 ) (70 ) (230 ) 329 % Gross profit 255 142 113 79 % Selling, general and administrative expenses (1,647 ) (1,550 ) (97 ) 6 % Research and development expenses (747 ) (1,394 ) 647 (46 )% Operating loss (2,139 ) (2,802 ) 663 (24 )% Other income, net 64 17 47 276 % Loss before income taxes (2,075 ) (2,785 ) 710 (25 )% Income tax expense/benefit - - - - Net loss (2,075 ) (2,785 ) 710 (25 )% Revenue During the three months ended June 30, 2023, the Company generated approximately $555 thousand in revenue, representing an increase of approximately $343 thousand, or 161%, compared to the approximately $212 thousand recorded during the three months ended June 30, 2022. The primary source of revenue in both the years was from the Life Sciences segment, encompassing the sales of our formulations as white-labeled manufactured products and sales of branded holistic womens health care products, among others. The Infrastructure segment revenue was approximately $167 thousand and $10 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2023, and June 30, 2022, respectively. The increase in revenue derived from the Infrastructure segment relates to the completion of a construction contract. The Company remains committed to its current strategy of driving sales in formulations both as branded and white-labeled products. | June 30, 2023, Form 10-Q 22 Table of Contents Cost of revenue Cost of revenue amounted to approximately $300 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to $70 thousand in the three months ended June 30, 2022, this represents gross margins of 46% to 67%, respectively. The cost of revenue is primarily attributable to the cost of raw materials, labor, and other direct overheads required to produce our products in the Life Science segment. The decrease in gross margin is reflective of a change in the mix of revenue between Infrastructure and Life Science. Typically, the gross margin in the Life Sciences business, while higher than in the infrastructure, will fluctuate from one quarter to another based on the mix within the Life Science business between white label, private label, and branded products. It is early to model or project gross margins. Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) SG&A expenses primarily encompass various costs such as employee-related expenses, sales commissions, professional fees, legal fees, marketing expenses, other corporate expenses, allocated general overhead, provisions, depreciation, and write-offs related to doubtful accounts and advances. During the three months ended June 30, 2023, SG&A expenses increased by approximately $97 thousand or 6% to approximately $1.6 million, from approximately $1.5 million recorded for the three months ended June 30, 2022. The increase in SG&A expenses is attributed to operational expenses. Research and Development expenses R&D expenses were attributed to our Life Sciences segment. The R&D expenses decreased by approximately $647 thousand or 46% to $747 thousand during the three months ended June 30, 2023, from approximately $1.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2022. The decrease is primarily attributable to a one-time non-cash expense during the three months ended June 30, 2022. Other than one-time non-cash expenses, the R&D expenses for both quarters are approximately the same. Other income, net Other net income increased by approximately $47 thousand or 276% during the three months ended June 30, 2023. The total other income for the three months ended June 30, 2023, and 2022, is approximately $64 thousand and $17 thousand, respectively. The increase in other income for the three months ended June 30, 2023, is attributable to profit from the sale of assets. The component of other income typically includes interest and rental income, dividend income, profits from the sale of assets, unrealized gains from non-debt investments, net income, and income from the sale of scraps. These sources contribute to the overall other income generated by the Company. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, funds raised through the ATM offering, cash flows from operations, short-term and long-term borrowings, and short-term liquidity arrangements. The Company continues to evaluate various financing sources and options to raise working capital to help fund current research and development programs and operations. The Company does not have any material long-term debt, capital lease obligations or other long-term liabilities, except as disclosed in this report. Please refer to Note 12, Commitments and contingencies, and Note 11, Loans and Other Liabilities, in Item 1 of this report for further information on Company commitments and contractual obligations. On June 30, 2023, the Company successfully entered into a Master Loan and Security Agreement (the Credit Agreement) with O-Bank, CO., LTD., pursuant to which the Company may borrow up to $12 million and, in addition, sold 10 million shares for $3 million pursuant to an SPA with Bradbury Asset Management and three unrelated investors. The equity raise and the Credit Agreement serve to satisfy ongoing liquidity requirements and ensure the Companys ability to sustain its operations. Furthermore, the Company intends to raise additional funds through private placement and ATM offerings, subject to market conditions, although there can be no assurance thereof. The Credit Agreement matures on June 30, 2024, with an option to renew. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement will bear interest, calculated according to the interest rate mentioned in the Certificate of Deposit (as defined in the Credit Agreement), as the case may be, plus an applicable margin of 1%, and the Company shall bear the tax. Interest is due and payable in full by the Company on the last business day of each interest period. As of June 30, 2023, the entire amount of $12 million remains unused. The Company expects to raise further capital for its research and development initiatives as and when it is able to do so, but there can be no assurance thereof. In addition, there can be no assurance of the terms thereof, and any subsequent equity financing sought may have dilutive effects on our current shareholders. While there is no guarantee that we will be successful, we are applying to non-dilutive funding opportunities such as Small Business Research and Development programs. In addition, subject to limitations on the amount of capital that can be raised, the Company expects to utilize its shelf registration on a statement on Form S- 3 to raise capital through at-the-market offerings or otherwise. | June 30, 2023, Form 10-Q 23 Table of Contents Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, for further information on the risks related to the Company. (in thousands, unaudited) As of June 30, 2023 ($) As of March 31, 2023 ($) Change Percent Change Cash and cash equivalents 1,723 3,196 (1,473 ) (46 )% Working capital 2,947 4,568 (1,621 ) (35 )% Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents decreased by approximately $1.4 million to $2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2023, from $3.2 million as of March 31, 2023, a decrease of approximately 46%. Summary of Cash flows (in thousands, unaudited) Three months ended June 30, Percent 2023 2022 Change Change Cash used in operating activities (1,468 ) (2,196 ) 728 (33 )% Cash used in investing activities (5 ) (158 ) 153 (97 )% Cash used in financing activities (1 ) (1 ) - - Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1 (52 ) 53 (102 )% Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (1,473 ) (2,407 ) 934 (39 )% Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period 3,196 10,460 (7,264 ) (69 )% Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 1,723 8,053 (6,330 ) (79 )% Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended June 30, 2023, was approximately $1.5 million. It consists of a net loss of approximately $2.1 million, a positive impact on cash due to non-cash expenses of approximately $459 thousand, and a positive change in operating assets and liabilities of approximately $148 thousand. Non-cash expenses consist of an amortization and depreciation charge of approximately $155 thousand, stock-based expenses of approximately $357 thousand, and an approximately $53 thousand decrease in other non-cash items. In addition, changes in operating assets and liabilities had a positive impact of approximately $148 thousand on cash, of which approximately $118 thousand is due to a decrease in accounts receivables, approximately $142 thousand increase in accounts payable, approximately $91 thousand increase in accrued and other liabilities and approximately $33 thousand increase in other net current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended June 30, 2022, was approximately $2.2 million. It consists of a net loss of approximately $2.8 million, a positive impact on cash due to non-cash expenses of approximately $1.4 million, and a negative change in operating assets and liabilities of approximately $793 thousand. Non-cash expenses consist of an amortization/depreciation charge of approximately $162 thousand and stock-based expenses of approximately $1.2 million. In addition, changes in operating assets and liabilities had a negative impact of approximately $793 thousand on cash, of which approximately $258 thousand is due to decrease in accrued and other liabilities and approximately $524 thousand decrease in accounts payable. | June 30, 2023, Form 10-Q 24 Table of Contents Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended June 30, 2023, was approximately $5 thousand, which comprised of expenses of approximately $28 thousand for the acquisition and filing expenses related to intellectual property, approximately $23 thousand for the purchase of property, plant, and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended June 30, 2022, was approximately $158 thousand, which comprised of expenses of approximately $31 thousand for the acquisition and filing expenses related to patents and purchase of property, plant, and equipment of approximately $127 thousand. Financing Activities Net cash used by financing activities was approximately $1 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2023 and June 30, 2022, which is comprised of re-payment of loan. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any outstanding derivative financial instruments, off-balance sheet guarantees, interest rate swap transactions, or foreign currency forward contracts. Furthermore, we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity, or market risk support to such entity. We do not have any variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, or credit support to us or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with us. Critical Accounting Policies While all accounting policies impact financial statements, certain policies may be viewed as critical. Critical accounting policies are those that are both most important to the portrayal of financial condition and results of operations and that require managements most subjective or complex judgments and estimates. Our management believes the policies that fall within this category are the policies on revenue recognition, inventory, accounts receivable, foreign currency translation, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, stock-based compensation, and cybersecurity. Please see our disclosures in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this report, in the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2023 Form 10-K, as well as Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2023 Form 10-K, for a discussion of all our critical and significant accounting policies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Changes to U.S. GAAP are established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in the form of accounting standards updates (ASUs) to the FASBs Accounting Standards Codification. The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs. Newly issued ASUs not listed are expected to have no impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations, because either the ASU is not applicable, or the impact is expected to be immaterial. Recent accounting pronouncements which may be applicable to us are described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies to the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this report and in the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II of our 2023 Form 10-K. | June 30, 2023, Form 10-Q 25 Table of Contents