Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is to provide an understanding of the Companys consolidated financial condition and results of operations and cash flows, and should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed financial statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended June 30, 2022, and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022 filed with the SEC on June 23, 2022 (the 2022 Form 10-K). The Companys actual results could differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause differences include those discussed in the Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors sections, as well as discussed elsewhere in this report. The risks and uncertainties can cause actual results to differ significantly from those in our forward-looking statements or implied in historical results and trends. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements made by us, which speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation, except as specifically required by law and the rules of the SEC, to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Overview IGC has two segments: Life Sciences and Infrastructure. Infrastructure Segment The Infrastructure segment involves the execution of construction contracts and the rental of heavy construction equipment. Since our inception, the Company has operated its Infrastructure segment from India. Life Sciences Segment The Life Sciences segment involves our over the counter products (OTC) and our biopharmaceutical products. Over the Counter Products : We have created a cannabinoid-based womens wellness brand, Holief available through online channels and a CBD-caffeine-infused energy drink, Sunday Seltzer, available through wholesale channels. Holief is an all-natural, non-GMO, vegan, line of OTC products aimed at treating menstrual cramps (dysmenorrhea) and premenstrual symptoms (PMS). Sunday Seltzer is an all-natural, organic, carbonated energy drink with natural caffeine from green tea extract, CBD, vitamins B, vitamin C, no added sugars, and no preservatives. The energy drink is available in two flavors, pomegranate-lemon, and peach-ginger. In addition, Sunday Seltzer is also available in four flavors with CBD, vitamins B, vitamin C, and no caffeine. Both Holief and Sunday Seltzer are compliant with relevant federal, state, and local laws, and regulations. Biopharmaceutical : Since 2014, this part of our business has focused primarily on the potential uses of phytocannabinoids, including Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and Cannabidiol (CBD), in combination with other compounds to treat multiple diseases, including Alzheimers. As a company engaged in the clinical-stage biopharmaceutical industry, we focus our research and development efforts, subject to results of future clinical trials, on seeking pharmaceutical solutions that may a) alleviate neuropsychiatric symptoms such as agitation, anxiety, and depression associated with dementia in Alzheimers disease; and b) halt the onset, progression, or cure Alzheimers disease. We currently have one investigational new drug candidate, IGC-AD1, in a Phase 2 clinical trial for agitation in dementia from Alzheimers. IGC-AD1 is a cannabis-based compound, which is made up of ultra-low doses of THC along with another compound as active ingredients. The second molecule, TGR-63, is an enzyme inhibitor that has been shown, in pre-clinical trials, to reduce neurotoxicity in Alzheimers cell lines. Neurotoxicity causes cell dysfunction and death in Alzheimers disease. If shown to be efficacious in halting this process, this inhibitor has the potential to treat Alzheimers disease by ameliorating A plaques. | June 30, 2022, Form 10-Q 25 Table of Contents The Company completed all dose escalation studies, and as announced by the Company on December 2, 2021, the results of the clinical trial have been submitted in the Clinical/Statistical Report (CSR) filed with U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the FDA). The Company is motivated by the potential that, with future successful results from appropriate further trials, IGC-AD1 could contribute to relief for some of the 55 million people around the world expected to be impacted by Alzheimers disease by 2030 (WHO, 2021). Other Developments Our pipeline of investigational and development cannabinoid formulations also includes pain creams and tinctures for pain relief. We believe that the biopharmaceutical component of our Life Sciences strategy will at least take several more years to mature and involves considerable risk however, we also believe it may involve greater defensible growth potential and first-to-market advantage. Although there can be no assurance, we believe this strategy has the potential to improve existing products and lead to the creation of new products, which, based on scientific study and research, may offer positive results for the management of certain conditions, symptoms, and side effects. While the bulk of our medium and longer-term focus is on clinical trials and getting IGC-AD1 to be an FDA approved drug, our shorter-term strategy, is to use our resources to provide white label services and market Holief and Sunday Seltzer. We believe this may provide us with several profit opportunities, although there can be no assurance of such profit opportunities. Company Highlights The Company has initiated a protocol titled A Phase 2, Multi-Center, Double-Blind, Randomized, Placebo-controlled, trial of the safety and efficacy of IGC-AD1 on agitation in participants with dementia due to Alzheimers disease. The protocol is powered at 146 Alzheimers patients with half receiving placebo and is a superiority, parallel group study. While subject to changes, we expect to conduct the trial at three sites, one in Canada and two in the U.S. The primary end point is agitation in dementia due to Alzheimers disease as rated by the Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI) over a six-week period. On June 7, 2022, the USPTO issued a patent (#11,351,152) to the Company titled Method and Composition for Treating Seizures Disorders. The patent relates to compositions and methods for treating multiple types of seizure disorders and epilepsy in humans and animals using a combination of the CBD with other compounds. Subject to further research and study, the combination is intended to reduce side effects caused by hydantoin anticonvulsant drugs such as phenobarbital, by reducing the dosing of anticonvulsant drugs in humans, dogs, and cats. On May 10, 2022, Hamsa Biopharma India Pvt. Ltd. (Hamsa Biopharma), a directly owned subsidiary of the Company, completed outstanding items in the agreement executed with the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR). The agreement was signed on March 28, 2022, for exclusive global rights corresponding to certain molecules, technology, patent, and patent filings as discussed herein. Strategy The Life Sciences segment strategy includes: 1. Subject to FDA approval, developing IGC-AD1 as a drug for treating agitation in dementia due to Alzheimers and investigating and developing TGR 63 for the potential treatment of Alzheimers disease. 2. Marketing Holief TM , Sunday Seltzer TM , and white label services. We believe developing a drug for either symptoms or as a disease modifying agent has considerable risk due to the need for multi-year trials and FDA approval. However, there is considerable upside and significant value creation to the extent we obtain first-to-market advantage, of which there can be no assurance. If we were to obtain first-to-market advantage, such advantage could result in significant growth if and when an approved drug launches. Our Holief TM strategy includes expanding the line of products and developing online services that connect women with healthcare professionals who can help with PMS and dysmenorrhea. Building an online community that brings women together can create brand equity and loyalty. | June 30, 2022, Form 10-Q 26 Table of Contents We believe that additional investment in clinical trials, R&D, facilities, marketing, advertising, and acquisition of complementary products and businesses will be critical to ongoing growth of the Life Sciences segment. These investments will fuel the development and delivery of innovative products that drive positive patient and customer experiences. We hope to leverage our R&D and intellectual property to develop ground-breaking, science-based products that are proven effective through clinical trials, subject to FDA approval. While there can be no assurance, we believe this strategy can improve our existing products and lead to the creation of new hemp-based products that can provide treatment options for multiple conditions, symptoms, and side effects. Our Infrastructure segment strategy includes winning and executing competitively bid construction contracts, such as building roads, bridges, and other civil works in Kerala, India. COVID-19 Update Our infrastructure business is based in the state of Kerala, India, which is among the Indian states most affected by COVID-19, and Hong Kong with strict quarantine and travel restrictions. The restrictions continue to adversely impact our infrastructure business, financial condition, liquidity, and operations. While IGC remains committed to its Infrastructure business line and intends to continue pursuing the execution of construction contracts, the purchase and resale of physical commodities used in infrastructure, and the rental of heavy construction equipment as the pandemic allows, we have limited visibility into when economic conditions will recover in India and Hong Kong. In response, we have oriented our current focus on a) the human trials on IGC-AD1 and getting an Alzheimers drug through trials and to market, subject to FDA approval; and b) launching a cannabinoid-based womens wellness line of products designed to assist in managing PMS and Dysmenorrhea. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended June 30, 2022, and June 30, 2021 The historical results presented below are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period. The following table presents an overview of our results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2022, and June 30, 2021: Statement of Operations (in thousands, unaudited) Three months ended June 30, 2022 ($) 2021 ($) Change ($) Percent Change Revenue 212 77 135 175 % Cost of revenue (70 ) (51 ) (19 ) 37 % Gross profit 142 26 116 446 % Selling, general and administrative expenses (1,550 ) (1,776 ) 226 (13 )% Research and development expenses (1,394 ) (444 ) (950 ) 214 % Operating loss (2,802 ) (2,194 ) (608 ) 28 % Impairment of investment - (37 ) 37 (100 )% Other income, net 17 443 (426 ) (96 )% Loss before income taxes (2,785 ) (1,788 ) (997 ) 56 % Income tax expense/benefit - - - - Net loss (2,785 ) (1,788 ) (997 ) 56 % Revenue Revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2022, and June 30, 2021, was primarily derived from our Life Sciences segment, which involved sales of products such as lotion, gummies, and alcohol-based hand sanitizers, among others. Revenue was approximately $212 thousand and $77 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2022, and June 30, 2021, respectively. The Infrastructure segment had lower revenue during the three months ended June 30, 2022 due to the slower recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, the ensuing disruption, and the onset of the monsoon season in India, which hampers construction activity. We anticipate lower revenue from the Infrastructure segment for the foreseeable future. | June 30, 2022, Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Cost of revenue Cost of revenue amounted to approximately $70 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2022, compared to $51 thousand in the three months ended June 30, 2021. The cost of revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2022, is primarily attributable to raw materials that are required to produce our products. Our gross margin increased from 34% to 67%, which reflects our increased sales from higher-margin Life Sciences segment as opposed to the lower margin infrastructure segment, which has traditionally been a lower margin business. Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) SG&A expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, sales commission, professional fees, legal fees, marketing, other corporate expenses, allocated general overhead and provisions, depreciation and write-offs relating to doubtful accounts and advances, if any. SG&A expenses decreased by approximately $226 thousand or 13% to approximately $1.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2022, from approximately $1.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2021. The decrease is from decreased marketing and legal expenses. Research and Development expenses R&D expenses were attributed to our Life Sciences segment. The R&D expenses increased by approximately $950 thousand or 214% to $1.4 million during the three months ended June 30, 2022, from approximately $444 thousand during three month ended June 30, 2021. The increase is primarily attributable to the progression of Phase 2 trials on IGC-AD1 and pre-clinical studies on TGR-63 . We anticipate additional increases to R&D expenses as the Phase 2 trial commences with patient sign ups. Impairment of investment During the three month ended June 30, 2022, there was no impairment of investment. During the three month ended June 30, 2021, the Company decided to dispose of its holding in and exit the acquisition of Evolve I. As a result, Company impaired the investment of $37 thousand in the three months ended June 30, 2021. Other income, net Other net income decreased by approximately $426 thousand or 96% during the three months ended June 30, 2022. The total other income for the three months ended June 30, 2022, and 2021, is approximately $17 thousand and $443 thousand, respectively. During the three months ended June 30, 2021, the other income included one time income of approximately $430 thousand related to forgiveness of PPP Note. Other income includes interest income and rental income, dividend income, and unrealized gains from marketable securities, net, and income from sale of scrap, among others. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, funds raised through the ATM offering, cash flows from operations, short-term and long-term borrowings, and short-term liquidity arrangements. The Company continues to evaluate various financing sources and options to raise working capital to help fund current research and development programs and operations. The Company does not have any material long-term debt, capital lease obligations or other long-term liabilities, except as disclosed in this report. Please refer to Note 12, Commitments and contingencies, Note 11, Loans and Other Liabilities and Note 9, Leases in Item 1 of this report for further information on Company commitments and contractual obligations. While the Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, and other short-term liquidity arrangements will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, debt repayments, investments, including but not limited to, mutual funds, treasury bonds, cryptocurrencies, and other asset classes, clinical trials and other liquidity requirements, if any, associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months, it will raise money as and when it is able to do so. The Company continues to utilize the ATM to raise capital. Management is actively monitoring the impact of COVID-19 on the Companys financial condition, liquidity, operations, suppliers, industry, legal expenses, and workforce. Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors for further information on the risks related to the Company. (in thousands, unaudited) As of June 30, 2022 ($) As of March 31, 2022 ($) Change Percent Change Cash and cash equivalents 8,053 10,460 (2,407 ) (23 )% Working capital 11,068 12,670 (1,602 ) (13 )% | June 30, 2022, Form 10-Q 28 Table of Contents Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents decreased by approximately $2.4 million to $8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2022, from $10.4 million as of March 31, 2022, a decrease of approximately 23%. The major decrease was due to approximately $158 thousand in purchase of property, plant, and equipment and acquisition of intangible assets and approximately $2.2 million of net cash loss. Summary of Cash flows (in thousands, unaudited) Three months ended June 30, 2022 2021 Change Percent Change Cash used in operating activities (2,196 ) (1,851 ) (345 ) 19 % Cash used in investing activities (158 ) (95 ) (62 ) 65 % Cash (used in)/provided by financing activities (1 ) 726 (727 ) (100 )% Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (52 ) (9 ) (44 ) 505 % Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (2,407 ) (1,229 ) (1,178 ) 96 % Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period 10,460 14,548 (4,088 ) (28 )% Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 8,053 13,319 (5,266 ) (40 )% Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended June 30, 2022, was approximately $2.2 million. It consists of a net loss of approximately $2.8 million, a positive impact on cash due to non-cash expenses of approximately $1.4 million, and a negative changes in operating assets and liabilities of approximately $793 thousand. Non-cash expenses consist of an amortization/depreciation charge of approximately $162 thousand and stock-based expenses of approximately $1.2 million. In addition, changes in operating assets and liabilities had a negative impact of approximately $793 thousand on cash, of which approximately $258 thousand is due to decrease in accrued and other liabilities and approximately $524 thousand decrease in accounts payable. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended June 30, 2021, was approximately $1.9 million. It consists of a net loss of approximately $1.8 million, a negative impact on cash due to non-cash expenses of approximately $110 thousand, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of approximately $48 thousand. Non-cash expenses consist of an amortization/depreciation charge of approximately $157 thousand, stock-based expenses of approximately $125 thousand, and a gain due to forgiveness of PPP Note of $430 thousand. In addition, changes in operating assets and liabilities had a positive impact of approximately $48 thousand on cash, of which approximately $46 thousand is due to decrease in accrued and other liabilities and operating lease assets. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended June 30, 2022, was approximately $158 thousand, which comprised of expenses of approximately $31 thousand for the acquisition and filing expenses related to patents and purchase of property, plant, and equipment of approximately $127 thousand. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended June 30, 2021, was approximately $95 thousand, which comprised of expenses of approximately $2 thousand for the acquisition and filing expenses related to patents and purchase of property, plant, and equipment of approximately $93 thousand. Financing Activities Net cash used by financing activities was approximately $1 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2022, which is comprised of re-payment of loan. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $726 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2021, which is comprised of net proceeds from issuance of equity stock through ATM offering, net of all expenses related to issuance of stock. | June 30, 2022, Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any outstanding derivative financial instruments, off-balance sheet guarantees, interest rate swap transactions or foreign currency forward contracts. Furthermore, we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity, or market risk support to such entity. We do not have any variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit support to us or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with us. Critical Accounting Policies While all accounting policies impact the financial statements, certain policies may be viewed as critical. Critical accounting policies are those that are both most important to the portrayal of financial condition and results of operations and that require Managements most subjective or complex judgments and estimates. Our Management believes the policies that fall within this category are the policies on revenue recognition, inventory, accounts receivable, foreign currency translation, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, stock-based compensation, and cybersecurity. We have a cybersecurity policy in place and have taken cybersecurity measures that, although there can be no assurance, we expect are likely to safeguard the Company against breaches. There were no impactful breaches in cybersecurity during the three months ended June 30, 2022. Please see our disclosures in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this report, in the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2021 Form 10-K, as well as Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2021 Form 10-K, for a discussion of all our critical and significant accounting policies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Changes to U.S. GAAP are established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in the form of accounting standards updates (ASUs) to the FASBs Accounting Standards Codification. The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs. Newly issued ASUs not listed are expected to have no impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations, because either the ASU is not applicable, or the impact is expected to be immaterial. Recent accounting pronouncements which may be applicable to us are described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies to the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this report and in the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II of our 2022 Form 10-K. | June 30, 2022, Form 10-Q 30 Table of Contents