Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The purpose of this Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is to provide an understanding of IGC Pharma, Inc.s (IGC, IGC Pharma, the Company, we, our, and/or us) consolidated financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed financial statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended June 30, 2025, and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2025, filed with the SEC on June 27, 2025 (the 2025 Form 10-K). The Companys actual results could differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause differences include those discussed in the Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors sections and discussed elsewhere in this report. The risks and uncertainties can cause actual results to differ significantly from those in our forward-looking statements or implied in historical results and trends. Accordingly, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements made by us, which speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation, except as expressly required by law and the rules of the SEC, to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those outlined in the forward-looking statements. Overview IGC Pharma, a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company developing treatments for Alzheimers disease (AD) and related neurodegenerative conditions, is committed to transforming patient care by seeking to offer faster-acting and more effective solutions. The Companys research and development efforts are centered on addressing some of the most challenging and underserved symptoms of Alzheimers, with the lead investigational candidate, IGC-AD1, positioned at the forefront of this strategy. It is designed to treat agitation in Alzheimers dementia, a common and difficult-to-manage neuropsychiatric symptom that significantly impacts millions of patients well-being and caregiver burden. Life Sciences Segment IGC Pharma, a clinical-stage company developing treatments for Alzheimers disease, is committed to transforming patient care by striving to offer faster acting and more effective solutions. Our lead drug, IGC-AD1, embodies this vision by tackling a critical challenge managing agitation in Alzheimers dementia. Early results from our Phase 2 trial are promising: IGC-AD1 effectively reduced agitation in patients compared to a placebo, and crucially, it did so faster than traditional medications. While existing anti-psychotics can take as long 6 to 12 weeks to show effects, we believe IGC-AD1 has the potential to act within two weeks. This potentially faster onset of action could significantly improve patient care and represents a potential breakthrough in managing Alzheimers-related agitation, although there can be no assurance thereof. In addition, we have created in-house wellness brands, available through online channels that are compliant with relevant federal, state, and local laws and regulations. We derive revenue from our in-house wellness non-pharmaceutical formulations that are manufactured as non-GMO, vegan, products at our facility and are sold over-the-counter (OTC). MINT-AD Currently, the AI team is working on developing a Multimodal Interpretable Transformer for Alzheimers Disease (MINT-AD). This tool aims to support clinicians in real-world decision-making towards reducing Alzheimers false negatives and delayed diagnosis. We are developing MINT-AD for three aims/phases: risk stratification for AD, cognitive decline prediction 2-5 years in advance, and deployment as a physicians tool. According to the World Alzheimer Report, more than 400 million people globally may carry Alzheimers-related pathology before any clinical symptoms appear. Yet primary care physicians, particularly those outside urban centers, often lack the tools needed to detect early cognitive risk. This diagnostic gap leads to missed or delayed diagnoses, limiting timely intervention, reducing eligibility for clinical trials, and ultimately worsening patient outcomes. MINT-AD aims to bridge this gap by extending cognitive diagnostics beyond neurology clinics, expensive PET scans, and other tests, to general practices, rural areas, and underserved populations. MINT-AD leverages diverse data sources, including brain scans, genetics, lifestyle, and cognitive metrics, to produce clinically interpretable risk profiles and forecast decline trajectories. The platform is being designed for integration into physician workflows to help improve early detection, care personalization, and clinical trial enrolment. | June 30, 2025, Form 10-Q 21 Table of Contents Our Business Strategy The business strategy includes: Advance Differentiated Therapies for High-Need CNS Indications. Expand IGC-AD1s therapeutic potential to treat AD, subject to FDA approval. Advance the development of TGR-63 as a potential therapeutic for AD. Advance the development of TGR-63 as a potential therapeutic for AD. Publish scientific findings in peer-reviewed journals to strengthen clinical credibility and visibility. Allocate Capital to Enhance Shareholder Value. We believe developing a drug for both symptom and disease-modifying agents has less risk due to the need for expensive multi-year trials. However, there is considerable upside and significant value creation to the extent we obtain a first-in-class advantage, of which there can be no assurance. If we were to obtain a first-in-class advantage, such an advantage could result in significant growth if and when an approved drug such as IGC-AD1 launches. We believe that additional investment in clinical trials, AI, R&D, facilities, marketing, advertising, and the acquisition of complementary products and businesses will be critical to the ongoing growth of the Life Sciences segment. Although there can be no assurance, we believe these investments will fuel the development and delivery of innovative products that drive positive patient and customer experiences. We hope to leverage our R&D and intellectual property to develop ground-breaking, science-based products that are proven effective through clinical trials, subject to FDA approval. Although there can be no assurance, we believe this strategy can improve our existing products and lead to the creation of new products that can provide treatment options for multiple conditions, symptoms, and side effects. Management is committed to its core short term goals, completion of the Phase 2 trial on IGC-AD1 and deploying MINT-AD. As we allocate more resources to achieving these objectives, we are evaluating various options for our non-core assets such as the manufacturing facility in Vancouver, including potential operational partnerships or alternative uses. As of the date of this filing, no definitive transaction has been finalized or has occurred. It could reduce our revenue. Company Highlights for the Quarter ended June 30, 2025 IGC Pharma presented compelling Genetic Toxicology Safety Data on the API in IGC-AD1 at the 2025 Genetic Toxicology Association Meeting, highlighting the safety profile of our lead compound a crucial step for regulatory approvals. IGC Pharma expanded its network of clinical trial sites for the CALMA trial, adding multiple strategic locations across North America. These expansions included leading research institutions and sites in diverse geographic areas such as Ontario (Canada), Florida, Rhode Island, Puerto Rico, and Oklahoma. This strategic broadening of our clinical trial footprint is designed to accelerate patient enrollment, enhance access to diverse patient populations, and strengthen the overall robustness of our study. During the quarter ended June 30, 2025, the Company raised a gross amount of approximately $997 thousand through different private equity placement SPAs and the ATM. | June 30, 2025, Form 10-Q 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended June 30, 2025, and June 30, 2024 The historical results presented below are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period. The following table presents an overview of our results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2025, and June 30, 2024: Statement of Operations (in thousands, unaudited) Three months ended June 30, 2025 ($) 2024 ($) Change ($) Percent Change Revenue 328 272 56 21 % Cost of revenue (174 ) (109 ) (65 ) 60 % Gross profit 154 163 (9 ) (6 )% Selling, general and administrative expenses (1,208 ) (1,670 ) 462 (28 )% Research and development expenses (851 ) (889 ) 38 (4 )% Operating loss (1,905 ) (2,396 ) 491 (20 )% Other income, net 306 18 288 1,600 % Loss before income taxes (1,599 ) (2,378 ) 779 (33 )% Income tax expense/benefit - - - - Net loss (1,599 ) (2,378 ) 779 (33 )% Revenue Revenue was approximately $328 thousand and $272 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2025, and June 30, 2024, respectively. Revenue in both quarters was primarily derived from our Life Sciences segment, which involved providing white-label manufactured products and sales of holistic health care products, among others. Our core focus is on advancing IGC-AD1, completing the Phase 2 trial, and developing MINT-AD for the early diagnosis of Alzheimers disease. In the future, our revenue from white label may not increase as we allocate more resources to expanding our core pharma-focused programs. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue amounted to approximately $174 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2025, compared to $109 thousand in the three months ended June 30, 2024. This represents gross margins of 47% and 60%, respectively. The cost of revenue is primarily attributable to the cost of raw materials, labor, and other direct overheads required to produce our products and services in both segments. The slight decrease in gross margin is attributed to the Companys strategic efforts to develop new formulations using a broader range of active ingredients, which, while affecting margins in the short term, are expected to open new commercial avenues in the long term. Selling, General and Administrative expenses (SG&A) SG&A expenses primarily encompass various costs such as employee-related expenses, sales commissions, professional fees, legal fees, marketing expenses, other corporate expenses, allocated general overhead, provisions, depreciation, and write-offs related to doubtful accounts and advances. During the three months ended June 30, 2025, SG&A expenses decreased by approximately $462 thousand or 28% to approximately $1.2 million as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. This significant decline in SG&A expenses is attributable to the Companys focused efforts to optimize corporate-level operational efficiency by lowering employeerelated costs due to headcount alignment and compensation restructuring, implementing better inventory management systems, and reducing spending on legal and professional services through more efficient vendor management. These optimizations allowed the Company to preserve capital and extend its operational runway while maintaining the infrastructure necessary to support clinical development and strategic initiatives. Research and Development expenses (R&D) R&D expenses were attributed to our Life Sciences segment. The R&D expenses decreased by approximately $38 thousand or 4% to approximately $851 thousand during the three months ended June 30, 2025, from approximately $889 thousand. The decrease is primarily due to a one-time non-cash expense of approximately $100 thousand in three months ended June 30, 2024. One-time expense adjusted, there is an increase in R&D expenses by $62 thousand. The R&D expenses are primarily attributed to the progression of Phase 2 trials on IGC-AD1 and preclinical studies on TGR-63, indicating the Companys dedication to advancing its product pipeline. As the development of TGR-63 and the Phase 2 trial on Alzheimers gains momentum, the Company anticipates an increase in R&D expenses. Other income, net Other net income increased by approximately $288 thousand or 1,600% during the three months ended June 30, 2025. As a result, the total other income for the three months ended June 30, 2025, and 2024 is approximately $306 thousand and $18 thousand, respectively. Other income includes interest and rental income, dividend income, profit from the sale of assets, unrealized gains from investments, net income, and income from scrap sales. The primary reason for increase is a tax credit of approximately $263 thousand company received during three months ended June 30, 2025. | June 30, 2025, Form 10-Q 23 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, funds raised through the ATM offering, cash flows from operations, short-term and long-term borrowings, and short-term liquidity arrangements. The Company continues to evaluate various financing sources and options to raise working capital to help fund current research and development programs and operations. The Company does not have any material long-term debt, capital lease obligations, or other long-term liabilities except as disclosed in this report. Please refer to Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies, and Note 11, Loans and Other Liabilities, in Item 1 of this report for further information on the Companys commitments and contractual obligations. On June 30, 2023, (the Effective Date), the Company entered into a Master Loan and Security Agreement along with the General Banking Facility Letter (collectively called the Credit Agreement) with O-Bank Co., Ltd., a banking corporation incorporated under the laws of Taiwan, as administrative agent and lender (the Lender) pursuant to which the Borrower may borrow up to $12 million only or the equivalent thereof in other major currencies (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility under the Credit Agreement contained a maturity date on the first anniversary of the Effective Date. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement will bear interest, calculated according to the interest rate mentioned in the Certificate of Deposit, as the case may be, plus an applicable margin of 1%, and the Borrower shall bear the tax. Interest is due and payable in full by the Borrower on the last business day of each interest period. On June 24, 2025, the Company entered into an amendment to extend the Credit Agreement. The amendment extends the term of the Credit Agreement, which was set to expire, under the same terms and conditions as previously disclosed, with the exception of i) a reduction in the facility fees from $84,000 to $48,000 and ii) interest, calculated according to the interest rate mentioned in the Certificate of Deposit, as the case may be, plus an applicable margin of 1.2%, instead of 1%. All other material terms of the Credit Agreement remain unchanged. In the first quarter of Fiscal 2026, the Company entered into the 2025 Share Purchase Agreements (2025 SPAs) with multiple investors, relating to the sale and issuance by our company to the investors of an aggregate of 2,803,333 shares of our common stock, for a total purchase price of $841,000 , or $0.30 per share, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the 2025 SPAs. The investments are subject to customary closing conditions, including NYSE approval. As per the 2025 SPA, the investor received piggyback registration rights subject to certain restrictions. Subsequent to the quarter through July 31, 2025, the Company sold 6,623,085 shares through the ATM for $2,623,467 at an average price of $0.41. The equity and the credit facility serve to minimize ongoing liquidity requirements and ensure the Companys ability to sustain its operations. Furthermore, the Company intends to raise additional funds through private placement and ATM offerings, subject to market conditions, although there can be no assurance that such financing efforts will be successful. The Company expects to raise further capital for its research and development initiatives as and when it is able to do so, in an ATM offering or private placement. In addition, there can be no assurance of the terms thereof, and any subsequent equity financing sought may have dilutive effects on our current shareholders. While there is no guarantee that we will be successful, we are applying to non-dilutive funding opportunities such as Small Business Research and Development programs. In addition, subject to limitations on the amount of capital that can be raised, the Company expects to utilize its shelf registration on a statement on Form S- 3 to raise capital through at-the-market offerings or otherwise. Please refer to Note 13 Securities, for more information. (in thousands, unaudited) As of June 30, 2025 ($) As of March 31, 2025 ($) Change Percent Change Cash and cash equivalents 454 405 49 12 % Working capital 428 639 (211 ) (33 )% Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents increased by approximately $49 thousand to $454 thousand in the three months ended June 30, 2025, from $405 thousand as of March 31, 2025, an increase of approximately 12%. | June 30, 2025, Form 10-Q 24 Table of Contents Summary of Cash flows (in thousands, unaudited) Three months ended June 30, Percent 2025 2024 Change Change Cash used in operating activities (1,407 ) (1,752 ) 345 (20 )% Cash provided by (used in) investing activities 580 (131 ) 711 (543 )% Cash provided by financing activities 851 2,507 (1,656 ) (66 )% Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 25 2 23 1,150 % Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 49 626 (577 ) (92 )% Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 405 1,198 (793 ) (66 )% Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 454 1,824 (1,370 ) (75 )% Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended June 30, 2025, was approximately $1.4 million. It consists of a net loss of approximately $1.6 million, a positive impact on cash due to non-cash expenses of approximately $569 thousand, and a negative change in operating assets and liabilities of approximately $377 thousand. Non-cash expenses consist of an amortization and depreciation charge of approximately $141 thousand, stock-based expenses of approximately $452 thousand, and other non-cash items with a negative impact of approximately $24 thousand. In addition, changes in operating assets and liabilities had a negative impact of approximately $377 thousand on cash, of which a net negative impact of approximately $53 thousand is due to an increase in accounts receivables, and a negative impact of approximately $599 thousand is due to decrease in accrued and other liabilities, a positive impact of approximately $183 thousand is due to decrease in deposits and advances, a positive impact of approximately $51 thousand is due to increase in accounts payable and net other current assets and liabilities of approximately $41 thousand. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended June 30, 2024, was approximately $1.8 million. It consists of a net loss of approximately $2.4 million, a positive impact on cash due to non-cash expenses of approximately $564 thousand, and a positive change in operating assets and liabilities of approximately $62 thousand. Non-cash expenses consist of an amortization and depreciation charge of approximately $162 thousand and stock-based expenses of approximately $402 thousand. In addition, changes in operating assets and liabilities had a positive impact of approximately $62 thousand on cash, of which a net negative impact of approximately $118 thousand is due to an increase in deposits and advances, and a positive impact of approximately $151 thousand is due to increase in accrued and other liabilities, and net other current assets and liabilities of approximately $29 thousand. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended June 30, 2025, was approximately $580 thousand, which comprised of approximately $114 thousand for the acquisition and development of intangible assets, and approximately $693 thousand for the net purchase of property, plant, and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended June 30, 2024, was approximately $131 thousand, which comprised of expenses of approximately $93 thousand for the acquisition and development of intangible assets, and approximately $38 thousand for the net purchase of property, plant, and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $851 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2025, which was comprised of net proceeds from issuance of equity stock of approximately $852 thousand and re-payment of the loan of approximately $1 thousand. Please refer to Note 13 Securities, for more information. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $2.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, which was comprised of net proceeds from issuance of equity stock of approximately $2.5 million and re-payment of the loan of approximately $1 thousand. Please refer to Note 13 Securities, for more information. | June 30, 2025, Form 10-Q 25 Table of Contents Treasury Strategy and Capital Allocation Considerations Management continually evaluates opportunities to optimize the Companys capital structure and enhance stockholders equity while maintaining adequate liquidity to support operations. Since early 2024, we have assessed the potential use of digital assets, including bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, as part of our treasury management strategy. Subsequent to quarter-end, in September 2025, our management plans to invest a portion of its funds in digital assets, either directly or through ETPs that hold such assets. We believe that allocating a portion of our cash reserves to digital assets could diversify our treasury holdings, potentially enhance our balance sheet if the assets appreciate, and align with emerging best practices of certain public companies. We expect to begin implementing this policy during the quarter ending September 30, 2025. The timing, size, and type of investments will be based on prevailing market conditions, liquidity needs, and risk management considerations. These investments involve material risks, as discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any outstanding derivative financial instruments, off-balance sheet guarantees, interest rate swap transactions, or foreign currency forward contracts. Furthermore, we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity, or market risk support to such entity. We do not have any variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, or credit support to us or that engages in leasing, hedging, or research and development services with us. Critical Accounting Policies While all accounting policies impact financial statements, certain policies may be viewed as critical. Critical accounting policies are those that are both most important to the portrayal of financial condition and results of operations and that require managements most subjective or complex judgments and estimates. Our management believes that the following policy that falls within this category in addition to the policies on revenue recognition, inventory, accounts receivable, foreign currency translation, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, stock-based compensation, and cybersecurity: Digital Asset Investments The Company may invest in digital assets, such as bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, either directly or through ETPs that hold such assets. Direct holdings of digital assets will be accounted for in accordance with ASC 350-60, Intangibles Goodwill and Other Crypto Assets, and measured at fair value with changes recognized in earnings, in accordance with ASU 2023-08. Holdings in ETPs will be accounted for as equity securities under ASC 321, Investments Equity Securities, and measured at fair value with changes recognized in earnings. Fair value will be determined using quoted prices in active markets (Level 1 inputs). For direct holdings of digital assets, the Company will present in the notes a roll-forward of activity, including the opening balance, additions, dispositions, gains and losses recognized during the period, and the ending balance, as well as any significant concentrations and restrictions. Please see our disclosures in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this report, in the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2025 Form 10-K, as well as Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2025 Form 10-K, for a discussion of all our critical and significant accounting policies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Changes to U.S. GAAP are established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in the form of accounting standards updates (ASUs) to the FASBs Accounting Standards Codification. The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs. Newly issued ASUs not listed are expected to have no impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations because either the ASU is not applicable, or the impact is expected to be immaterial. Recent accounting pronouncements that may apply to us are described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies to the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this report and in the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II of our 2025 Form 10-K. | June 30, 2025, Form 10-Q 26 Table of Contents