ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion and analysis of the consolidated statement of operations, liquidity, and capital resources, and a summary of cash flows, which apply to Fiscal 2023 ending on March 31, 2023, and Fiscal 2022, ending on March 31, 2022. These statements should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the plans and results discussed in forward-looking statements. We encourage you to review the risks and uncertainties discussed in the sections entitled Item 1A. Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements are included at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties can cause actual results to differ significantly from those in our forward-looking statements or implied in historical results and trends. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements made by us, which speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation, except as specifically required by law and the rules of the SEC, to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Overview IGC Pharma, Inc. is a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company with a diversified revenue model that develops both prescription drugs and over-the-counter (OTC) products. Our focus is on developing innovative therapies for neurological disorders such as Alzheimers disease, epilepsy, Tourette syndrome, and sleep disorders. We also focus on formulations for eating disorders, chronic pain, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), and dysmenorrhea, in addition to health and wellness OTC formulations. The Company is developing its lead candidate, IGC-AD1, an investigational oral therapy for the treatment of agitation associated with Alzheimers disease. IGC-AD1 is currently in Phase 2 (Phase 2B) clinical trials after completing nearly a decade of research and realizing positive results from pre-clinical and a Phase 1 trial. This previous research into IGC-AD1 has demonstrated efficacy in reducing plaques and tangles, which are two important hallmarks of Alzheimers, as well as reducing neuropsychiatric symptoms associated with dementia in Alzheimers disease, such as agitation. We were formerly known as India Globalization Capital, Inc. and incorporated in Maryland on April 29, 2005. Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending March 31. Currently, most of our revenue comes from the Life Sciences segment and, in the future, we believe, from our investigational drugs for treating Alzheimers disease. We have also built a facility for a potential Phase 3 trial and have strategic relations for the procurement of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs). In addition, we have acquired and initiated work on TGR-63, a pre-clinical molecule that exhibits an impressive affinity for reducing neurotoxicity in Alzheimers cell lines. The advancement of IGC-AD1 into Phase 2 trials represents a significant milestone for the company and positions us for multiple pathways to future success. Although there can be no assurance, we anticipate that the positive outcomes from these and other trials will drive further growth, valuation, and market potential for IGC-AD1. IGC has two segments: Life Sciences and Infrastructure. Life Sciences Segment Pharmaceutical: Since 2014, we have focused a portion of our business on the application of phytocannabinoids such as THC and CBD, among others, in combination with other compounds, to address efficacy for various ailments and diseases such as Alzheimers disease. As previously disclosed, IGC submitted IGC-AD1, our investigational drug candidate for Alzheimers, to the FDA under Section 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and received approval on July 30, 2020, to proceed with the Phase 1 trial on Alzheimers patients and the Company completed all dose escalation studies, and as announced by the Company on December 2, 2021, the results of the clinical trial have been submitted in the Clinical/Statistical Report (CSR) filed with the FDA. The Company is motivated by the potential that, with future successful results from appropriate further trials, IGC-AD1 could contribute to relief for some of the 55 million people around the world expected to be impacted by Alzheimers disease by 2030 (WHO, 2021). 38 Table of Contents Currently, IGC-AD1 is in a Phase 2B safety and efficacy clinical trial for agitation in dementia from Alzheimers (clinicaltrials.gov, NCT05543681). The progress we are making in the clinic, gives us confidence in the potential of IGC-AD1 as a potentially groundbreaking therapy, with the potential to treat Alzheimers and also to manage devastating symptoms that separate families, increase admissions to nursing homes, and drive the cost of Alzheimers care, although there can be no assurance. We have a two-pronged approach for our Alzheimers investigational drug development strategy, the first prong is to investigate IGC-AD1 as an Alzheimers symptoms modifying agent, and the second is to investigate TGR-63 as a disease modifying agent. This involves conducting more trials on IGC-AD1 over the next few years, subject to FDA approval, with the anticipated goal of demonstrating safety and efficacy and potentially obtaining FDA approval for IGC-AD1 as a cannabinoid-based new drug that can help to manage agitation for patients suffering from Alzheimers disease. The second prong is to investigate the potential efficacy of TGR-63 on memory and/or decreasing or managing plaques and tangles, some of the hallmarks of Alzheimers disease. Our pipeline of investigational and development cannabinoid formulations also includes pain creams and tinctures for pain relief. We believe that the pharmaceutical component of our Life Sciences strategy will take several more years to mature and involves considerable risk; however, we also believe it may involve greater defensible growth potential and first-to-market advantage. Although there can be no assurance, we believe that additional investment in clinical trials, research, and development (R&D), facilities, marketing, advertising, and acquisition of complementary products and businesses supporting our Life Sciences segment will be critical to the development and delivery of innovative products and positive patient and customer experiences. We hope to leverage our R&D and intellectual property to develop ground-breaking, science-based products that are proven effective through planned pre-clinical and clinical trials. Although there can be no assurance, we believe this strategy has the potential to improve existing products and lead to the creation of new products, which, based on scientific study and research, may offer positive results for the management of certain conditions, symptoms, and side effects. While the bulk of our medium and longer-term focus is on clinical trials and getting IGC-AD1 to be an FDA approved drug, our shorter-term strategy, is to use our resources to provide white label services and market Holief. We believe this may provide us with several profit opportunities, although there can be no assurance of such profit opportunities. Over-the-Counter Products: We have created a womens wellness brand, Holief available through online channels that are compliant with relevant federal, state, and local laws, and regulations. Holief is an all-natural, non-GMO, vegan, line of over-the-counter (OTC) products aimed at treating menstrual cramps (dysmenorrhea) and premenstrual symptoms (PMS). The products are available online and through Amazon and other online channels. Holief is compliant with relevant federal, state, and local laws, and regulations. Infrastructure Segment The Companys infrastructure business has been operating since 2008, it includes: (i) Execution of Construction Contracts and (ii) Rental of Heavy Construction Equipment. COVID-19 Update The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting containment measures that have been in effect from time to time in various countries and territories since early 2020 have had a number of substantial negative impacts on businesses around the world and on global, regional, and national economies, including widespread disruptions in supply chains for a wide variety of products and resulting increases in the prices of many goods and services. Currently, our production facilities in all of our locations continue to operate as they had before the COVID-19 pandemic, with few changes other than for enhanced safety measures intended to prevent the spread of the virus. Some of our ongoing clinical trials experienced short-term interruptions in the recruitment of patients due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as hospitals prioritized their resources towards the COVID-19 pandemic and government imposed travel restrictions. Some clinical trials experienced increased expenses due to new protocols to protect participants from COVID-19. Additionally, certain suppliers had difficulties meeting their delivery commitments, and we are experiencing longer lead times for components. Future shutdowns could have an adverse impact on our operations. However, the extent of the impact of any future shutdown or delay is highly uncertain and difficult to predict. 39 Table of Contents It is not possible at this time to estimate the complete impact that COVID-19 could have on our business, including our customers and suppliers, as the effects will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Infections may resurge or become more widespread, including due to new variants and the limitation on our ability to travel and timely sell and distribute our products, as well as any closures or supply disruptions may be prolonged for extended periods, all of which would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience an adverse impact on our business due to the continued global economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We cannot anticipate all of the ways in which health epidemics such as COVID-19 could adversely impact our business. See Item 1A, Risk Factors for further discussion of the possible impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. The Global Economic Environment In addition to the industry-specific factors, such as regulations around cannabinoid research, we are exposed to economic cycles. Factors in the global economic environment that may impact our operations include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, global economic conditions including inflation, restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property, legal protections and remedies, trade regulations, tax laws and regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of our products, as well as impacts of political or civil unrest or military action, including the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine, terrorist activity, unstable governments, and legal systems, inter-governmental disputes, public health outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, natural disasters or disruptions related to climate change. Operational Excellence We remain focused on continuing to build excellence broadly in three areas, cannabinoid-based investigations, drug development and product manufacturing, and online marketing. Although there can be no assurance, we believe these will give us a competitive advantage, including building an increasingly agile and adaptable commercialization engine with a strong customer-focused market expertise. Workplace and Employees We support broad public health strategies designed to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and are focused on the health and welfare of our employees. We have mobilized to enable our employees to accomplish our most critical goals through a combination of remote work and in-person initiatives. In addition to rolling out new technologies and collaboration tools, we have implemented processes and resources to support our employees in the event an employee receives a positive COVID-19 diagnosis. We have developed plans regarding the opening of our sites to enable our employees to return to work in our global offices, the field, and our manufacturing facilities, which take into account applicable public health authority and local government guidelines, and which are designed to ensure community and employee safety. We are moving to a more flexible mix of virtual and in-person work to advance our culture, drive innovation and agility and enable greater balance and well-being for our workforce. Research and Development With respect to our clinical trial activities, we have taken measures to implement remote and virtual approaches, including remote data monitoring where possible, to maintain safety and trial continuity and to preserve study integrity. We have seen delays in initiating trial sites, due to COVID-19. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to perform our trials in a timely and satisfactory manner as a result of the evolving effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Similarly, our ability to recruit and retain patients and principal investigators, and site staff who, as health care providers, may have heightened exposure to COVID-19 may adversely impact our clinical trial operations. 40 Table of Contents Fiscal 2023 Highlights On March 20, 2023, the Company announced the changing of its name to IGC Pharma, Inc. from India Globalization Capital, Inc., as a part of a rebranding strategy that better reflects IGC Pharmas strategic focus and vision for the future. On March 8, 2023, the Company filed in USPTO the provisional patent application titled Composition, Synthesis, and Medical Use of Hybrid Cannabinoid. On January 4, 2023, the Company received a No-objection letter from Health Canada for approval to begin its trial in Canada A, Phase 2, Multi-Center, Double-Blind, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Trial of the Safety and Efficacy of IGC-AD1 on Agitation in Participants with Dementia due to Alzheimers Disease. On December 1, 2022, the Company announced that it had begun its Phase 2 clinical trials A, Phase 2, Multi-Center, Double-Blind, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Trial of the Safety and Efficacy of IGC-AD1 on Agitation in Participants with Dementia due to Alzheimers Disease at two U.S. sites with plan to add between three to five additional sites in the United States, Canada, and possibly South Africa, to increase population diversity. On September 20, 2022, the USPTO granted a second patent (#11,446,276) for the treatment of Alzheimers disease titled Extreme low dose THC as a therapeutic and prophylactic agent for Alzheimers disease. The original patent application was initiated by the University of South Florida (USF) and filed on August 1, 2016. On May 25, 2017, the Company entered into an exclusive license agreement with USF with respect to the patent application and the associated research conducted on Alzheimers disease. IGC-AD1, described above, is based on some of this research. On June 7, 2022, the USPTO issued a patent (#11,351,152) to the Company titled Method and Composition for Treating Seizures Disorders. The patent relates to compositions and methods for treating multiple types of seizure disorders and epilepsy in humans and animals using a combination of the CBD with other compounds. Subject to further research and study, the combination is intended to reduce side effects caused by hydantoin anticonvulsant drugs such as phenobarbital, by reducing the dosing of anticonvulsant drugs in humans, dogs, and cats. 41 Table of Contents Results of Operations Fiscal 2023 compared to Fiscal 2022 The following table presents an overview of our results of operations for Fiscal 2023 and Fiscal 2022: Statement of Operations (in thousands, audited) Fiscal 2023($) 2022($) Change($) Percent Change Revenue 911 397 514 129 Cost of revenue (469 ) (203 ) (266 ) 131 Gross profit 442 194 248 128 Selling, general and administrative expenses (8,552 ) (13,292 ) 4,740 (36 ) Research and development expenses (3,461 ) (2,330 ) (1,131 ) 49 Operating loss (11,571 ) (15,428 ) 3,857 (25 ) Impairment - (49 ) 49 (100 ) Other income, net 65 461 (396 ) (86 ) Loss before income taxes (11,506 ) (15,016 ) 3,510 (23 ) Income tax expense/benefit - - - - Net loss attributable to common stockholders (11,506 ) (15,016 ) 3,510 (23 ) Revenue During Fiscal 2023, the Company generated approximately $911 thousand in revenue, representing a significant increase from the $397 thousand generated in Fiscal 2022. The primary source of revenue in both years was from the Life Sciences segment, encompassing the sale of our formulations as white labeled manufactured products and sales of branded holistic womens health care products, among others. The growth can be attributed to higher sales volume driven by increased sales and marketing efforts. The Company implemented robust marketing and sales activities, which contributed to the successful expansion of its customer base and increased demand. Approximately 10%-12% of revenue in both years was derived from the Infrastructure segment. The Company remains committed to its current strategy of driving sales in formulated white labeled and wellness products. By continuing to focus on sales and marketing initiatives, the Company aims to further strengthen its position in the market and drive sustained revenue growth. Cost of revenue The cost of revenue amounted to approximately $469 thousand for Fiscal 2023, compared to $203 thousand in Fiscal 2022. This represents a gross margin of about 49% for both years. The cost of revenue is primarily attributable to the cost of raw materials, labor, and other direct overheads required to produce our products in the Life Science segment. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses primarily encompass various costs such as employee-related expenses, sales commissions, professional fees, legal fees, marketing expenses, other corporate expenses, allocated general overhead, provisions, depreciation, and write-offs related to doubtful accounts and advances. For Fiscal 2023, the Company reported SG&A expenses of approximately $8.5 million, representing a decrease of approximately $4.7 million, or 36%, compared to the $13.2 million recorded in Fiscal 2022. This decline in SG&A expenses are attributable to a reduction in one-time expenses of approximately $4.2 million and a decrease of approximately $500 thousand in compensation, legal and marketing expenses, net realizable value (NRV) adjustments, and other SG&A expenses. By effectively managing and reducing these expenses, the Company achieved cost savings during Fiscal 2023. Research and Development (R&D) expenses R&D expenses were primarily associated with the Life Sciences segment, reflecting the Companys investment in R&D activities. In Fiscal 2023, the Company reported R&D expenses of approximately $3.5 million, representing an increase of $1.2 million or 49% compared to approximately $2.3 million in Fiscal 2022. The increase in R&D expenses is primarily attributed to the progression of Phase 2 trials on IGC-AD1 and pre-clinical studies on TGR-63, indicating the Companys dedication to advancing its product pipeline. As the development of TGR-63 and the Phase 2B trial on Alzheimers gain momentum, the Company anticipates further increases in R&D expenses. attributable to the progression of Phase 2 trials on IGC-AD1 and pre-clinical studies on TGR-63. We anticipate increased R&D expenses as the development of TGR-63 and the Phase 2B trial on Alzheimers pick up more momentum. Impairment loss During Fiscal 2023, there was no investment impairment. In Fiscal 2022, there was an impairment of approximately $49 thousand, which was attributed to the cancelation of 44 thousand shares of IGC common stock. 42 Table of Contents Other Income, net During Fiscal 2023, the Company reported approximately $65 thousand in other income, which represents a decrease compared to the $461 thousand recorded in Fiscal 2022. The decrease in other income for Fiscal 2023 can be primarily attributed to the absence of a one-time forgiveness of the PPP (Paycheck Protection Program) loan, which amounted to approximately $430 thousand in Fiscal 2022. The component of other income typically includes interest and rental income, dividend income, profits from the sale of assets, unrealized gains from non-debt investments, net income, and income from the sale of scraps. These sources contribute to the overall other income generated by the Company. Liquidity and capital resources Our sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, funds raised through the ATM offering, cash flows from operations, short-term and long-term borrowings, and short-term liquidity arrangements. The Company continues to evaluate various financing sources and options to raise working capital to help fund current research and development programs and operations. The Company does not have any material long-term debt, capital lease obligations, or other long-term liabilities, except as disclosed in this report. Please refer to Note 12, Commitments and contingencies, Note 11, Loans and Other Liabilities and Note 9, Leases in Item 1 of this report for further information on Company commitments and contractual obligations. On June 30, 2023, the Company successfully obtained a working capital credit facility totaling $12 million and in addition sold 10,000,000 shares for $3,000,000. The equity and the credit facility serve to minimize ongoing liquidity requirements and ensure the Companys ability to sustain its operations. Furthermore, the Company intends to raise additional funds through private placement and ATM offerings, subject to market conditions. The Company expects to raise capital for its trials as and when it is able to do so, but there can be no assurance thereof. In addition, there can be no assurance of the terms thereof and any subsequent equity financing sought may have dilutive effects on our current shareholders. While there is no guarantee that we will be successful, we are applying to non-dilutive funding opportunities such as Small Business Research and Development programs. In addition, subject to limitations on the amount of capital that can be raised, the Company expects to utilize its shelf registration on statement on Form S-3 to raise capital through at-the-market offerings or otherwise. Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors for further information on the risks related to the Company. (in thousands, audited) As of March 31, 2023 ($) As of March 31, 2022 ($) Change ($) Percent Change Cash, cash equivalents 3,196 10,460 (7,264 ) (69 )% Working capital 4,568 12,670 (8,102 ) (64 )% Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents decreased by approximately $7.3 million to $3.2 million in Fiscal 2023 from $10.5 million in Fiscal 2022, a decrease of approximately 69% is discussed in the summary of cash flows, as follows: (in thousands, audited) Fiscal 2023($) 2022($) Change($) Percent Change Cash used in operating activities (7,047 ) (7,462 ) 415 (6 )% Cash used in investing activities (235 ) (742 ) 507 (68 )% Cash provided by financing activities 100 4,142 (4,042 ) (98 )% Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (82 ) (26 ) (56 ) 215 % Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (7,264 ) (4,088 ) (3,176 ) 78 % Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 10,460 14,548 (4,088 ) (28 )% Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 3,196 10,460 (7,264 ) (69 )% 43 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities for Fiscal 2023 was approximately $7 million. It consists of a net loss of approximately $11.5 million, a positive impact on cash due to non-cash expenses of approximately $3.7 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of approximately $0.8 million. Non-cash expenses consist of an amortization and depreciation charge of approximately $0.7 million, stock-based expenses of approximately $2.8 million and other non-cash expenses of approximately $0.2 million. In addition, changes in operating assets and liabilities had a positive impact of approximately $0.8 million on cash, of which approximately $0.9 million is due to an adjustment in inventory and approximately $0.1 million decrease in other net current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities for Fiscal 2022 was approximately $7.5 million. It consists of a net loss of approximately $15 million, a positive impact on cash due to non-cash expenses of approximately $5 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of approximately $2.5 million. Non-cash expenses consist of an amortization/depreciation charge of approximately $0.6 million, impairment of investment of $0.1 million, provision against debtor & advances of $1.7 million, stock-based expenses of approximately $2.2 million, and a one-time impairment of PPE of $0.8 million and an offset of $0.4 million due to the forgiveness of a PPP Loan. In addition, changes in operating assets and liabilities had a positive impact of approximately $2.5 million in cash, of which approximately $1.9 million is due to an adjustment in inventory and an approximately $0.6 million increase in accounts payable. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for Fiscal 2023, was approximately $0.2 million, which comprises approximately $0.3 million for the acquisition and filing expenses related to intellectual property, approximately $0.2 million for the purchase of property, plant, and equipment and approximately $0.1 million of a short-term investment. Net cash used in investing activities for Fiscal 2022, was approximately $0.7 million, which comprises approximately $0.5 million for the acquisition and filing expenses related to intellectual property, approximately $0.2 million for the purchase of property, plant, and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $0.1 million for Fiscal 2023, which comprises net proceeds from issuance of equity stock through the ATM offering, net of all expenses related to the issuance of stock. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $4.1 million for Fiscal 2022, which comprises net proceeds from issuance of equity stock through the ATM offering, net of all expenses related to the issuance of stock. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates, and such differences may be material. Management believes that the following accounting policies are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue under ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). The core principle of this standard is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. 44 Table of Contents ASC 606 prescribes a 5-step process to achieve its core principle. The Company recognizes revenue from trading, rental, or product sales as follows: I. Identify the contract with the customer. II. Identify the contractual performance obligations. III. Determine the amount of consideration/price for the transaction. IV. Allocate the determined amount of consideration/price to the performance obligations. V. Recognize revenue when or as the performing party satisfies performance obligations. The consideration/price for the transaction (performance obligation(s)) is determined as per the agreement or invoice (contract) for the services and products in the Infrastructure and Life Sciences segment. Revenue in the Infrastructure segment is recognized for the renting business when the equipment is rented, and the terms of the agreement have been fulfilled during the period. Revenue from the execution of infrastructure contracts is recognized on the basis of the output method as and when part of the performance obligation has been completed and approval from the contracting agency has been obtained after survey of the performance completion as of that date. In the Life Sciences segment, the revenue from the wellness and lifestyle business is recognized once goods have been sold to the customer and the performance obligation has been completed. In retail sales, we offer consumer products through our online stores. Revenue is recognized when control of the goods is transferred to the customer. This generally occurs upon our delivery to a third-party carrier or to the customer directly. Revenue from white label services is recognized when the performance obligation has been completed and output material has been transferred to the customer. Net sales disaggregated by significant products and services for Fiscal 2023 and 2022 are as follows: (in thousands) Year Ended March 31 2023($) 2022($) Infrastructure segment Rental income (1) 37 23 Construction contracts (2) 76 15 Life Sciences segment Wellness and lifestyle (3) 416 316 White label services (4) 382 43 Total 911 397 (1) Rental income consists of income from rental of heavy construction equipment. (2) Construction income consists of the execution of contracts directly or through subcontractors. (3) Revenue from wellness and lifestyle consists of sale of products such as gummies, hand sanitizers, bath bombs, lotions, beverages, hemp crude extract, hemp isolate, and hemp distillate. (4) Revenue from white label services consists of rebranding our formulations or the customers products as per customers requirement. Accounts receivable We make estimates of the collectability of our accounts receivable by analyzing historical payment patterns, customer concentrations, customer creditworthiness, and current economic trends. If the financial condition of a customer deteriorates, additional allowances may be required. We had $107 thousand of accounts receivable, net of provision for the doubtful debt of $17 thousand as of March 31, 2023, as compared to $125 thousand of accounts receivable, net of provision for the doubtful debt of $93 thousand as of March 31, 2022. Short-term and long-term investments Our policy for short-term and long-term investments is to establish a high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations, and delivers an appropriate yield in relation to our investment guidelines and market conditions. Short-term and long-term investments consist of equity investment, mutual funds, corporate, various government securities, and municipal debt securities, as well as certificates of deposit. Certificates of deposit and commercial paper are carried at cost which approximates fair value. Available-for-sale securities: Investments in debt securities that are classified as available for sale shall be measured subsequently at fair value in the statement of financial position. 45 Table of Contents Investments are initially measured at cost, which is the fair value of the consideration given for them, including transaction costs. Where the Companys ownership interest is in excess of 20% and the Company has a significant influence, the Company has accounted for the investment based on the equity method in accordance with ASC Topic 323, Investments Equity method and Joint Ventures. Under the equity method, the Companys share of the post-acquisition profits or losses of the equity investee is recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and its share of post-acquisition movements in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) is recognized in other comprehensive income/(loss). Where the Company does not have significant influence, the Company has accounted for the investment in accordance with ASC Topic 321, Investments-Equity Securities. We consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. The fair values of these investments approximate their carrying values. In general, investments with original maturities of greater than three months and remaining maturities of less than one year are classified as short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may be classified as short-term based on their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment of cash that is available for current operations. Debt investments are classified as available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes in fair value, excluding credit losses and impairments, are recorded in other comprehensive income. Fair value is calculated based on publicly available market information or other estimates determined by management. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, and the extent to which the fair value is less than the cost. To determine credit losses, we employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. In addition, we consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of, and business outlook for, the investee. If we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, then a decline in fair value below cost is recorded as an impairment charge in other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Equity investments with readily determinable fair values are measured at fair value. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are measured using the equity method or measured at cost with adjustments for observable changes in price or impairments (referred to as the measurement alternative). We perform a qualitative assessment on a periodic basis and recognize an impairment if there are sufficient indicators that the fair value of the investment is less than the carrying value. Changes in value are recorded in other income (expense), net. As of March 31, 2023, the Company has approximately $154 thousand in short-term investments. Impairment The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio to determine if any security is other-than-temporarily impaired, which would require the Company to record an impairment charge in the period any such determination is made. In making this determination, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent to which the fair value of a security is less than its cost; the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto; and the Companys intent to sell, or whether it will more likely than not be required to sell, the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. The Companys assessment of whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in assumptions related to any particular security, which would have an adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. The estimated amount of liability is based on the information available to us with respect to bank debt and other borrowings. During Fiscal 2023, there was no impairment and Fiscal 2022, the Company impaired investments of approximately $49 thousand, respectively. Inventory Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, which is defined as estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. Inventory consists of finished goods related to wellness products, hand sanitizers, finished hemp-based products, beverages. Work-and in-progress consist of products in the manufacturing process as on reporting date, including but not limited to primary cost. Inventory is primarily accounted for using the weighted average cost method. Primary costs include raw materials, packaging, direct labor, overhead, shipping, and the depreciation of manufacturing equipment. Manufacturing overhead and related expenses include salaries, wages, employee benefits, utilities, maintenance, and property taxes. 46 Table of Contents We capitalize inventory costs related to our investigational drug, provided that management determines there is a potential alternative use for the inventory in future research and development projects or other purposes. As of March 31, 2023, and 2022, our consolidated balance sheet reported approximately $407 thousand and no clinical trial related inventory, respectively. Abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, scrap, discontinued products and wasted material (spoilage) are expensed in the period they are incurred. Please refer to Note 3, Inventory, for further information. Stock-Based compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation to employees and non-employees in conformity with the provisions of ASC Topic 718, Stock-Based Compensation. The Company expenses stock-based compensation to employees over the requisite vesting period based on the estimated grant-date fair value of the awards. The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur. Stock-based awards are recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite vesting period. For stock-based employee compensation the cost recognized at any date will be at least equal to the amount attributable to the share-based compensation that is vested at that date. For performance-based awards, stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the expected performance achievement period of individual performance milestones when the achievement of each individual performance milestone becomes probable by best of management estimate. For performance-based awards with a vesting schedule based entirely on the attainment of performance conditions, stock-based compensation expense associated with each tranche is recognized over the expected achievement period for the operational milestone, beginning at the point in time when the relevant operational milestone is considered probable to be achieved. For market-based awards, stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the expected achievement period. The fair value of such awards is estimated on the grant date using binomial lattice model. The Company estimates the fair value of stock option grants using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based awards represent Managements best estimates. Generally, the closing share price of the Companys common stock on the date of the grant is considered the fair value of the share. The volatility factor is determined based on the Companys historical stock prices. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. The Company has never declared or paid any cash dividends. For further information, refer to Note 14, Stock-Based Compensation of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statements and tax base of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The Company has incurred net operating loss for financial-reporting and tax-reporting purposes. Accordingly, for Federal and State income tax purposes, the benefit for income taxes has been offset entirely by a valuation allowance against the related federal, state, and foreign deferred tax assets. Foreign currency translation IGC operates in India, U.S., Colombia, and Hong Kong, and a substantial portion of the Companys financials are denominated in the Indian Rupee (INR), the Hong Kong Dollar (HKD), or the Colombian Peso (COP). As a result, changes in the relative values of the U.S. Dollar (USD), the INR, the HKD, or the COP affect financial statements. 47 Table of Contents The accompanying financial statements are reported in USD. The INR, HKD, and COP are the functional currencies for certain subsidiaries of the Company. The translation of the functional currencies into U.S. dollars is performed for assets and liabilities using the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for revenues and expenses using average exchange rates prevailing during the reporting periods. Adjustments resulting from the translation of functional currency financial statements to reporting currency are accumulated and reported as other comprehensive income/(loss), a separate component of shareholders equity. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency during the year are converted into the functional currency at the applicable rates of exchange prevailing when the transactions occurred. Transaction gains and losses are recognized in the consolidated statements of operations. The exchange rates used for translation purposes are as follows: Period End Average Rate Period End Rate Period (P&L rate) (Balance sheet rate) Year ended March 31, 2023 INR 80.32 Per USD INR 82.18 Per USD HKD 7.8 Per USD HKD 7.8 Per USD COP 4,465 Per USD COP 4,645 Per USD Year ended March 31, 2022 INR 74.50 Per USD INR 75.91 Per USD HKD 7.78 Per USD HKD 7.83 Per USD COP 3,830 Per USD COP 3,748 Per USD Cybersecurity We have a cybersecurity policy in place and have implemented tighter cybersecurity measures to safeguard against hackers. Complying with these security measures and compliances is expected to incur further expenses. In Fiscal 2023 and Fiscal 2022, there were no known or detected breaches in cybersecurity. Recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements Changes to U.S. GAAP are established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in the form of accounting standards updates (ASUs) to the FASBs Accounting Standards Codification. The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs. Newly issued ASUs not listed are expected to have no impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations, because either the ASU is not applicable, or the impact is expected to be immaterial. Recent accounting pronouncements which may be applicable to us are described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies in our Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein in Part II, Item 8. Off-balance sheet arrangements We do not have any outstanding derivative financial instruments, off-balance sheet guarantees, interest rate swap transactions or foreign currency forward contracts. Furthermore, we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity, or market risk support to such entity. We do not have any variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit support to us or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with us.