ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis apply to Fiscal 2020 that ends on March 31, 2020, and Fiscal 2019 that ends on March 31, 2019. These statements should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from plans and results discussed in forward-looking statements. We encourage you to review the risks and uncertainties discussed in the sections entitled Item 1A. Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements included at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties can cause actual results to differ significantly from those in our forward-looking statements or implied in historical results and trends. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements made by us, which speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation, except as specifically required by law and the rules of the SEC, to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Overview Our primary source of revenue in Fiscal 2020 and 2019, is from our Infrastructure segment. In Fiscal 2020, we significantly reduced the buying and selling of construction materials in Hong Kong because of what we believe to be a slow-down in the Hong Kong economy due, in part, to widespread protests, along with the spread of COVID-19. The Companys Infrastructure segment, involves: (i) Execution of Construction Contracts The Company is executing a road building contract in Kerala, India valued initially at approximately $0.6 million. Throughout Fiscal 2020, the Company worked on execution of the contract as well as sought approval for an expansion of the contract. The total value of the contract was increased to approximately $1.1 million. The Company estimates that it will take between 12 and 15 months to complete the work. Work on this project has been temporarily suspended due to COVID-19. We expect to re-start the project in second quarter of Fiscal 2021. (ii) Purchase and Resale of Physical Commodities Used in Infrastructure This business line includes the purchase and resale of commodities, including steel, wooden doors, marble, and tiles, among others. This work has been adversely affected due to COVID-19. (iii) Rental of Heavy Construction Equipment We own heavy construction equipment such as motor grader, transit mixers and rollers, that we rent to construction contractors. This business is seasonal and had minimal revenue during Fiscal 2020. Our second segment, Life Sciences, includes a biotech component, and a vertically integrated hemp-cannabinoid based healthcare and wellness business, which involves: (i) development of potential new drugs, subject to applicable regulatory approvals, that use ultra-low doses of phytocannabinoids including cannabidiol (CBD), cannabigerol (CBG), and tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), among others, in combination with other compounds, believed to assist in the treatment of diseases like Alzheimers, 33 Table of Contents (ii) several CBD-based products and brands, in various stages of development, for sale online and/or through stores, (iii) wholesale of hemp extracts including hemp crude extract, and hemp isolate, among others, (iv) hemp growing and processing facilities, (v) white labeling of hemp-based products, and (vi) the offering of tolling services like extraction and distillation to hemp-farmers and retailers. Since the legal industrial hemp industry remains relatively new, during Fiscal 2020, the Company focused on setting up facilities for long-term expansion of its Life Sciences segment. The Company filed an Investigative New Drug Application (INDA) with the FDA for a double-blind, placebo-controlled, 100-person trial, for its proprietary patent pending formulation based on IGC-AD1 and established an approximately $0.5 million facility in San Juan, Puerto Rico to conduct the trial. The Company also established an approximately $2.4 million facility it intends to qualify as a Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP)-certified processing facility in the State of Washington for: a) production of products such as lotions, creams, and oils, among others, to support our products and to support white labeling; b) extraction of hemp into crude oil; and c) distillation of crude oil into hemp extracts. The crop that was grown in Arizona, passed inspection by the Arizona Department of Agriculture (AZDA) with the harvest certified as legal under the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) rules. The Company operates both segments in compliance with applicable state, national, and local laws, and regulations and only in locations and regions where it is legal to do so. Further information on the Company highlights in Fiscal 2020 can be found in Item 1, Fiscal 2020 Highlights. Results of Operations Fiscal 2020 compared to Fiscal 2019 The following table presents an overview of our results of operations for Fiscal 2020 and Fiscal 2019: Statement of Operations (in thousands, audited) Fiscal 2020 ($) 2019 ($) Change ($) Percent Change Revenue 4,072 5,116 (1,044 ) (20 )% Cost of revenue (3,957 ) (4,984 ) (1,027 ) (21 )% Gross Profit 115 132 (17 ) (13 ) % General and administrative expenses (5,968 ) (3,519 ) (2,449 ) 70 % Research and development expenses (1,011 ) (1,256 ) (245 ) (20 )% Operating loss (6,864 ) (4,643 ) (2,221 ) 48 % Impairment loss (782 ) - (782 ) 100 % Other income, net 331 548 (217 ) (40 )% Loss before income taxes (7,315 ) (4,095 ) (3,220 ) 79 % Tax expense - (2 ) 2 100 % Net Loss (7,315 ) (4,097 ) (3,218 ) 79 % Revenue Revenue was primarily derived from our Infrastructure segment in both Fiscal 2020 and 2019. Revenue was approximately $4,072 thousand and $5,116 thousand, for Fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively, representing a decline of $1,044 thousand or 20%. This decrease in revenue is attributed to a decrease in the infrastructure business, especially in the last quarter of Fiscal 2020 due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and the slowing down of the Hong Kong economy as a result of widespread protests. We have limited visibility on when the infrastructure business will normalize and expect a significant decrease in revenue from the infrastructure business until operations resume following the COVID-19 pandemic. 34 Table of Contents Cost of revenue Cost of revenue amounted to approximately $3,957 thousand for Fiscal 2020, compared to $4,984 thousand in Fiscal 2019, a decrease of approximately $1,027 thousand or 21%. This decrease in cost of revenue is attributable to a decrease in our Infrastructure businesses in the last quarter of Fiscal 2020 due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and the slowing down on the Hong Kong economy as a result of the widespread protests. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, professional fees, legal fees, marketing, other corporate expenses, allocated general overhead and provisions, depreciation and write-offs relating to doubtful accounts and advances, if any. General and administrative expenses increased by approximately $2,449 thousand or 70% to $5,968 thousand for Fiscal 2020, from $3,519 thousand for Fiscal 2019. The increase of $2,449 thousand is attributed largely to legal and professional fees that amounted to approximately $0.8 million, and approximately $0.9 million compensation expenses attributed to increased head count and associated employee-related expenses. In addition, we had approximately $754 thousand of non-cash expenses and $150 thousand provision for advance in Fiscal 2020. Research and Development expenses R&D expenses were attributed to our Life Sciences segment. The R&D expenses decreased approximately $245 thousand or 20%, to $1,011 thousand for Fiscal 2020, compared to $1,256 thousand for Fiscal 2019. The cost associated with this work is mostly research comprising of plant extracts that could be productized and data to support the efficacy of the extracts, including running FDA trials, product research, designing, formulating and market analysis. All research and development costs are expensed in the quarter in which they are incurred. The decrease is attributed to a slowdown of R&D activity in the last quarter of Fiscal 2020 due to COVID-19. Impairment loss Pursuant to the December 18, 2014 Purchase Agreement with Apogee, we issued Apogee 1.2 million shares of IGCs common stock valued at $888 thousand for the purchase of a 24.9% ownership interest in Midtown Partners & Co., LLC (MTP). During Fiscal 2018, after considering several factors, the Company concluded that it no longer had significant influence over MTP and hence maintained the same value of investment of approximately $773 thousand. During Fiscal 2020, the Company decided to impair this investment. The Company still owns 24.9% ownership in MTP as on March 31, 2020. Other Income, net Other net income decreased by approximately $217 thousand or 40% during Fiscal 2020. The total other income for Fiscal 2020 and 2019 is approximately $331 thousand and $548 thousand, respectively. The major decrease is due to a one-off $300 thousand gain on the settlement of a note payable in Fiscal 2019. In Fiscal 2020, such amount includes interest income, rental income and approximately $84 thousand dividend income from marketable securities, net. Liquidity and capital resources Our sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, short-term borrowings, and short-term liquidity arrangements. The Company continues to evaluate various financing sources and options to raise working capital to help fund current research and development programs and operations. The Company does not have any material long-term debt, capital lease obligations or other long-term liabilities, except as disclosed in this report. Please refer to Note 12, Commitments and contingencies and Note 9, Leases in Item 8 of this report for further information on Company commitments and contractual obligations. The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and other short-term liquidity arrangements, will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, share repurchases, debt repayments, investments and other liquidity requirements, if any, associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months. Management is actively monitoring the impact of COVID-19 on its financial condition, liquidity, operations, suppliers, industry, and workforce. Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors for further information on the risks related to the Company. This liquidity and capital resources discussion compares the audited consolidated Company financials. (in thousands, audited) As of March 31, 2020 ($) As of March 31, 2019 ($) Change Percent Change Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities 7,258 25,610 (18,352 ) (72 )% Working capital 15,811 25,845 (10,034 ) (39 )% 35 Table of Contents Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents decreased by approximately $18,352 thousand to $7,258 thousand in Fiscal 2020, from $25,610 thousand in Fiscal 2019, a decrease of approximately 72%. The major decrease was due to investments of approximately $5,081 thousand in marketable securities, $4,389 thousand in purchase of property, plant and equipment, and $3,998 thousand in inventory. Summary of Cash flows (in thousands, audited) Fiscal 2020 2019 Change Percent Change Cash used in operating activities (8,677 ) (3,330 ) (5,347 ) 161 % Cash used in investing activities (9,547 ) (260 ) (9,287 ) 3,572 % Cash provided by/ (used in) financing activities (59 ) 27,598 (27,657 ) (100 )% Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (69 ) (56 ) 13 (23 )% Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (18,352 ) 23,952 (42,304 ) (177 )% Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of period 25,610 1,658 23,952 1,445 % Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 7,258 25,610 (18,352 ) (72 )% Operating Activities Net cash used for operating activities for Fiscal 2020 was $8.7 million. This consists of a net loss of $7.3 million and non-cash items totaling $1.7 million, which in turn consist of an amortization/depreciation charge of $144 thousand, impairment loss of $782 thousand, and stock-based expenses totaling $770 thousand. Changes in operating assets and liabilities had a negative impact of $3,058 thousand on cash of which $3,998 was due to increase in inventory. Net cash used for operating activities for Fiscal 2019 was $3.3 million. This consists of a net loss of $4.1 million and non-cash items totaling $387 thousand, which in turn consist of an amortization/depreciation charge of $59 thousand, one-time settlement gain of $300 thousand, and stock-based expenses totaling $610 thousand. Changes in operating assets and liabilities had a positive impact of $380 thousand on cash. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities during Fiscal 2020 was $9.5 million which is comprised of approximately $77 thousand for the acquisition and filing expenses related to patents and trademarks, purchase of property, plant and equipment of $4,389 thousand and investments of approximately $5,081 thousand in marketable securities. Net cash used in investing activities during Fiscal 2019 was $260 thousand which is comprised of approximately $45 thousand for the acquisition of the patent from the University of South Florida, purchase of property, plant and equipment of $15 thousand and a loan for the procurement of equipment in the amount of $200 thousand at an interest rate of 3 percent per annum. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $59 thousand during Fiscal 2020, consisting of $18 thousand from the exercise of share options, and the $77 thousand share related expenses. Net cash provided by financing activities was $27.6 million during Fiscal 2019, consisting of $29.5 million received net from the sale of common shares through the Companys public offering and private placement program, offsetting the payment of $1.9 million of payment of outstanding loans. 36 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates, and such differences may be material. Management believes that the following accounting policies are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue under ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). The core principle of this standard is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. ASC 606 prescribes a 5-step process to achieve its core principle. The Company recognizes revenue from trading, rental, or product sales as follows: I. Identify the contract with the customer II. Identify the contractual performance obligations III. Determine the amount of consideration/price for the transaction IV. Allocate the determined amount of consideration/price to the performance obligations V. Recognize revenue when or as the performing party satisfies performance obligations. The consideration/price for the transaction (performance obligation(s)) is determined as per the agreement or invoice (contract) for the services and products in the Infrastructure and Life Sciences segment. Revenue in the Infrastructure Business is recognized for the renting business when the equipment is rented, and terms of the agreement has been fulfilled during the period. The revenue from the purchase and resale of physical infrastructure commodities is recognized once the bill of lading along with the invoice have been transferred to the customer. Revenue from the execution of infrastructure contracts is recognized on the basis of output method as and when part of the performance obligation has been completed and approval from the contracting agency has been obtained after survey of the performance completion as of that date. In the Life Sciences segment, the revenue from the wellness and lifestyle business is recognized once goods have been sold to the customer and the performance obligation has been completed. We license our products to processors. The royalty income is recognized once goods have been sold to its customer by the processor. Net sales disaggregated by significant products and services for Fiscal 2020 and Fiscal 2019 were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2020 ($) 2019 ($) Infrastructure segment Rental income (1) 7 30 Construction contracts (2) 101 - Purchase and resale of physical commodities (3) 3,553 5,061 Life Sciences segment Wellness and Lifestyle (4) 386 25 Tolling/White labeling service (5) 25 - Total 4,072 5,116 (1) Rental income consists of income from rental of heavy construction equipment. (2) Construction income stems from the execution of contracts either directly or as a subcontractor. There was revenue of $101 thousand from the $1.1 million NHAI construction contract during Fiscal 2020. The Company expects to complete the project 12 and 15 months. (3) Relates to the income from purchase and resale of physical commodities used in infrastructure, like steel, wooden doors, marble, and tiles. (4) Relates to revenue from Life Sciences segment such as sale of hemp crude extract, hemp isolate, and hemp distillate and royalty income from sale of Hyalolex, now named Hyalolex Drops of Clarity. (5) Relates to income from tolling services. 37 Table of Contents Accounts receivable We make estimates of the collectability of our accounts receivable by analyzing historical payment patterns, customer concentrations, customer creditworthiness, and current economic trends. If the financial condition of a customer deteriorates, additional allowances may be required. We had $133 thousand of accounts receivable, net of provision, for doubtful debt of $9 thousand as of March 31, 2020 as compared to $84 thousand, net of provision, for doubtful debt of $6 thousand as of March 31, 2019. Short-term and long-term investments Our policy for short-term and long-term investments is to establish a high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations, and delivers an appropriate yield in relationship to our investment guidelines and market conditions. Short-term and long-term investments consist of corporate, various government agency and municipal debt securities, as well as certificates of deposit that have maturity dates that are greater than 90 days. Certificates of deposit and commercial paper are carried at cost which approximates fair value. Available-for-sale securities: Investments in debt securities that are classified as available for sale shall be measured subsequently at fair value in the statement of financial position. Unrealized holding gains and losses for available-for-sale securities (including those classified as current assets) shall be excluded from earnings and reported in other comprehensive income until realized except as indicated in the following sentence. All or a portion of the unrealized holding gain and loss of an available-for sale security that is designated as being hedged in a fair value hedge shall be recognized in earnings during the period of the hedge, pursuant to paragraphs 815-25-35-1 through 35-4. Investments are initially measured at cost, which is the fair value of the consideration given for them, including transaction costs. Where the Companys ownership interest is in excess of 20% and the Company enjoys significant interest, the Company has accounted for the investment based on the equity method in accordance with ASC 323, Investments Equity method and Joint Ventures. Under the equity method, the Companys share of the post-acquisition profits or losses of the equity investee is recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and its share of post-acquisition movements in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). Where the Company does not have significant influence, the Company has accounted for the investment in accordance with ASC Topic 321 Investments-Equity Securities. Impairment of investment The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio to determine if any security is other-than-temporarily impaired, which would require the Company to record an impairment charge in the period any such determination is made. In making this determination, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent to which the fair value of a security is less than its cost; the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto; and the Companys intent to sell, or whether it will more likely than not be required to sell, the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. The Companys assessment of whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in assumptions related to any particular security, which would have an adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. The estimated amount of liability is based on the information available with us with respect of bank debt and other borrowings. During Fiscal 2020 the Company impaired investments of $782 thousand. Change in inventory valuation method On April 1, 2019, the Company changed its methodology for the valuation of inventory from first-in-first-out to weighted average cost method, because the newly adopted accounting principle is preferable in the circumstances because the weighted average cost method of accounting for all inventories will improve financial reporting by better matching revenues and expenses and better reflecting the current value of inventory. The change did not impact the financial statements for the prior years. Inventor y Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, net realizable value defined as estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. 38 Table of Contents Inventory consists of raw materials, finished goods and work-in-progress such as extracted crude oil, CBD isolate, growing crops, crude oil, herbal oils, among others. Work-in-progress also includes product manufacturing in process, costs of growing hemp, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations including but not limited to labor, utilities, fertilizers and irrigation. Inventory is primarily accounted for using the weighted average cost method. Primary costs include raw materials, packaging, direct labor, overhead, shipping and the depreciation of manufacturing equipment. Manufacturing overhead and related expenses include salaries, wages, employee benefits, utilities, maintenance, and property taxes. Harvested crops are measured at net realizable value, with changes recognized in profit or loss only when the harvested crop: - has a reliable, readily determinable, and realizable market value; - has relatively insignificant and predictable costs of disposal; and - is available for immediate delivery. The Company believes its harvested crops does not have a readily available market. Hence, the Company values its harvested crops at cost. Stock-based compensation Stock-based compensation expense is measured at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award. The cost is recognized as expense ratably over the employees requisite service period or vesting period, which is generally up to one or three years, on a straight-line basis. We account for forfeitures when they occur. Equity awards issued to non-employees are recorded at their fair value on the grant date as they are immediately exercisable and not forfeitable at the date of grant. For further information refer to Note-15 Stock-Based Compensation. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statements and tax base of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The Company has incurred net operating loss for financial-reporting and tax-reporting purposes. Accordingly, for Federal and State income tax purposes, the benefit for income taxes has been offset entirely by a valuation allowance against the related federal, state, and foreign deferred tax assets. Foreign currency translation IGC operates in India, U.S., Colombia and Hong Kong and a substantial portion of the Companys financials are denominated in the Indian Rupee (INR), the Hong Kong Dollar (HKD) or the Colombian Peso (COP). As a result, changes in the relative values of the U.S. Dollar (USD), the INR, the HKD or the COP affect financial statements. The accompanying financial statements are reported in USD. The INR, HKD and COP are the functional currencies for certain subsidiaries of the Company. The translation of the functional currencies into U.S. dollars is performed for assets and liabilities using the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for revenues and expenses using average exchange rates prevailing during the reporting periods. Adjustments resulting from the translation of functional currency financial statements to reporting currency are accumulated and reported as other comprehensive income/(loss), a separate component of shareholders equity. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency during the year are converted into the functional currency at the applicable rates of exchange prevailing when the transactions occurred. Transaction gains and losses are recognized in the consolidated statements of operations. The exchange rates used for translation purposes are as follows: Period End Average Rate Period End Rate Period (P&L rate) (Balance sheet rate) Year ended March 31, 2020 INR 70.96 Per USD INR 74.74 Per USD HKD 7.82 Per USD HKD 7.75 Per USD COP 3,383,60 Per USD COP 4,060 Per USD Year ended March 31, 2019 INR 70.04 Per USD INR 69.16 Per USD HKD 7.84 Per USD HKD 7.85 Per USD COP 3,033.19 Per USD COP 3,188.62 Per USD 39 Table of Contents Cybersecurity We have a cybersecurity policy in place and have implemented tighter cybersecurity measures to safeguard against hackers. Complying with these security measures and compliances is expected to incur further expenses. In Fiscal 2020 and Fiscal 2019, there were no known or detected breaches in cybersecurity. Recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements Changes to U.S. GAAP are established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in the form of accounting standards updates (ASUs) to the FASBs Accounting Standards Codification. The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs. Newly issued ASUs not listed are expected to have no impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations, because either the ASU is not applicable, or the impact is expected to be immaterial. Recent accounting pronouncements which may be applicable to us are described in Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies in our Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein in Part II, Item 8. Off-balance sheet arrangements We do not have any outstanding derivative financial instruments, off-balance sheet guarantees, interest rate swap transactions or foreign currency forward contracts. Furthermore, we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity, or market risk support to such entity. We do not have any variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit support to us or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with us.