MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS % INTEL REVENUE KEY PRODUCTS AND MARKETS HIGHLIGHTS DCG Includes workload-optimized platforms and related products designed for cloud, enterprise, and communication infrastructure market segments. Revenue for our data-centric businesses was up 3% year over year. Growth in DCG, IOTG, Mobileye, and NSG was offset by decline in PSG. We introduced new data-centric products, such as the Intel Agilex TM FPGA , 2nd generation Intel Xeon Scalable processor, and Intel Optane DC persistent memory. In addition, Mobileye continued to secure new design wins at major U.S. and global automakers and announced plans to commercialize MaaS. IOTG Includes high-performance compute solutions for targeted verticals and embedded applications in market segments such as retail, industrial, smart infrastructure, and vision. OPPORTUNITIES MOBILEYE Includes development of computer vision and machine learning-based sensing, data analysis, localization, mapping, and driving policy technology for ADAS and autonomous driving. We have expanded our data-centric TAM to approximately $230 billion 1 with acquisitions and product innovations. Our broadened portfolio enables new opportunities for us and creates better synergistic value for our customers. For example, our product offerings for AI workloads reach from the cloud to the edge, and we are developing CPU, GPU, FPGA, and AI accelerator products to span inference and training AI workloads, while also pursuing ongoing software optimizations for AI. NSG Includes memory and storage products like Intel Optane technology and Intel 3D NAND technology, primarily used in SSDs. CHALLENGES DCG growth slowed as major cloud service providers and enterprise OEMs worked through inventory after a historic platform refresh in 2018. As we enter 2020, we expect to face an increasingly competitive market. In addition, challenging market conditions resulted in margin compression on memory products. PSG Includes programmable semiconductors, primarily FPGAs and structured ASICs, and related products for communications, cloud and enterprise, and embedded market segments. % INTEL REVENUE KEY PRODUCTS AND MARKETS CCG Includes platforms designed for end-user form factors, focusing on higher growth segments of 2-in-1, thin-and-light, commercial and gaming, and growing adjacencies such as connectivity, graphics, and memory. HIGHLIGHTS OPPORTUNITIES CHALLENGES Our PC-centric business revenue remained flat year over year. We began shipping our 10nm-based 10th generation Intel Core TM processors, previously referred to as Ice Lake. These processors feature a new core architecture and are expected to deliver increased graphics performance, AI, and new levels of integrated connectivity for thin-and-light laptops and 2-in-1s. We divested the majority of our 5G smartphone modem business to increase the focus of 5G efforts on the broader opportunity to modernize network and edge infrastructure while retaining critical IP and modem technology. We are targeting an approximately $70 billion PC-centric revenue TAM 1 . This expanded portfolio includes markets such as connectivity, graphics, and memory, which enables new opportunities as we innovate through the platform. We launched Project Athena, a multi-year innovation program designed to deliver advanced laptops that meet ambitious key experience indicators in performance, responsiveness, battery life, form factor, and AI. Our PC-centric business is operating in an increasingly competitive environment and we are focused on executing an annual cadence of leadership products. Strong demand across our product lines, combined with increased capacity consumed by offsetting factors, contributed to tight supply, particularly at the value end of the PC market. We are making additional investments in our manufacturing facilities and working with customers to align demand with available supply. 1 Source: Intel calculated 2024 TAM derived from industry analyst reports. MD&A 16 Table of Contents OUR PRODUCTS OUR PRODUCTS PROVIDE END-TO-END SOLUTIONS We are at the forefront of developing new technologies and new products as building blocks for an increasingly smart and connected world. These technologies and products are used as integrated solutions for a broad spectrum of markets. As we transform beyond a PC-centric company to address the needs of the new data-centric world, we have expanded our product offerings to provide end-to-end solutions, scaling from edge computing to the network, the cloud, and the emerging fields of AI and autonomous driving. WE HAVE A BROAD PRODUCT PORTFOLIO From processing to transferring, storing, and analyzing data, our broad product portfolio offers innovative solutions to a wide array of customers. These products, such as our gaming CPUs, may be sold directly to end consumers, or they may be further integrated by our customers into end products such as notebooks and storage servers. Combining some of these productsfor example, integrating FPGAs and memory with Intel Xeon processors in a data-center solutionenables incremental synergistic value and performance. We introduced new products in 2019 such as 10nm-based 10th generation Intel Core TM processors, Intel Agilex TM FPGAs, 2nd generation Intel Xeon Scalable processors, and Intel Optane DC persistent memory. Platform products: Our platform products can be a CPU and chipset, an SoC, or a multichip package, based on Intel architecture that processes data and controls other devices in a system. These products are primarily used in solutions sold through CCG, DCG, and IOTG. Adjacent products: Our non-platform, or adjacent products, can be combined with platform products to form comprehensive platform solutions to meet customer needs. These products are used in solutions sold through each of our businesses and include the following: Accelerators - Silicon products that can operate alone or accompany our processors in a system, such as FPGAs, VPUs, and Mobileye EyeQ* SoC Boards and systems - Server boards and small form factor systems such as Intel NUCs Connectivity products - Cellular modems, Ethernet controllers, silicon photonics, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth Memory and storage products - SSD, persistent memory, and memory components MD&A 17 Table of Contents OVERVIEW DCG develops workload-optimized platforms for compute, storage, and network functions. Market segments include cloud service providers, enterprise and government, and communications service providers. In the first half of 2019, DCG customers, specifically the cloud service providers and enterprise and government market segments absorbed capacity and worked through inventory after a historic customer-driven platform refresh in 2018. As consumption picked back up in the second half of 2019, DCG returned to growth. Continued demand for cloud computing and solutions built for the network and edge fueled growth. HIGHLIGHTS AND SEGMENT IMPERATIVES "Our workload-optimized, broad portfolio strategy uniquely enables our customers to move, store, and process the world's data." Navin Shenoy, Data Platforms Group 2 General Manager We delivered sweeping innovation across our data-centric product portfolio, including introduction of the 2nd generation Intel Xeon Scalable processor family for the data center, first market introduction of Intel Optane TM DC persistent memory, new Intel Xeon D processors, and Intel 800 series Ethernet adapters. Adjacent products saw double-digit revenue growth primarily due to Intel Silicon Photonics and Intel Optane TM DC persistent memory. DCG has significant opportunities in cloud, networking, AI, and data analytics. As we broadened our product offerings and continued to innovate, the data center market TAM 1 is expected to grow to approximately $90 billion by 2024. 5-YEAR TRENDS Revenue $B Year over Year Growth Op Income $B Year over Year Growth 1 Source: Intel calculated 2024 TAM derived from industry analyst reports. 2 Our Data Platforms Group includes our DCG segment. See "Information About Our Executive Officers" within Other Key Information for more details. MD&A 18 Table of Contents MARKET AND BUSINESS OVERVIEW Market trends and strategy Data is a significant force in society, and is being generated at an unprecedented pace. Data center customers want to work with partners who can deliver platforms to address their most important technology challenges. Additionally, as more data is generated, organizations are seeking to analyze data closer to point of origin, giving rise to a data-centric edge environment across industries and providers. We expect the massive growth of data worldwide will increase demand to move, store, and process data and extract value from data. We are one of the few companies that touches every part of the data-centric compute landscape, and we have invested both organically and through acquisitions to capitalize on these demands. We expect these trends to continue to fuel demand in DCG and other data-centric businesses in the long term. DCG focuses on three market segments: cloud service providers, enterprise and government, and communications service providers. In 2019, cloud revenue grew as service providers continued to invest in infrastructure to meet the explosive demand for digital services, AI, and data analytics. Cloud service provider revenue was down in the first half as customers absorbed capacity and worked through inventory after a historic 2018 platform refresh; this trend stabilized in the second half of 2019. In our enterprise and government market segment, legacy architecture continues to decline on-premise, but enterprises are rapidly embracing cloud as an architecture, and we expect to continue to see growth in hybrid and multi-cloud deployments. In the communications service provider market segment, we gained market segment share as customers chose to virtualize and transform their networks and prepare for the 5G transition using Intel architecture. Products and competitiveness We offer customers an unmatched, broad portfolio of platforms and technologies designed to provide workload-optimized performance across compute, storage, and network. These offerings span the full spectrum from the data center core to the network edge. In addition, DCG focuses on lowering the total cost of ownership and on other specific workload optimizations for the enterprise, cloud service provider, and communications service provider market segments, with hardware-enhanced performance optimizations for AI workloads. DCG's platform value can be extended through Intel adjacent products such as FPGAs and SSDs. As a leading provider of data center platforms, we face competition from competitors such as Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD), providers of GPU products such as NVIDIA Corporation (NVIDIA), companies using ARM* architecture, new entrants developing products customized for specific data center workloads, and from internally developed solutions by cloud service providers and others. We expect an increasingly competitive environment in 2020. With over 23 million units shipped to date, the Intel Xeon Scalable platform provides the foundation for the data-centric era. In 2019, we launched our 2nd generation Intel Xeon Scalable processors, formerly Cascade Lake, which include Intel Deep Learning Boost. As the industry's only CPUs with built-in AI acceleration, Intel Xeon processors can help customers solve challenging problems and gain insight for future opportunities. We also shipped new generations of our Intel Xeon D processor product family, designed to deliver improved performance in space- and power-constrained environments. Beyond processing everything, we are enhancing users' digital experiences through continued expansion of adjacent product offerings to store and move data more effectively, such as Intel Optane TM DC persistent memory and Intel 800 series Ethernet adapters. MD&A 19 Table of Contents FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DCG REVENUE $B DCG OPERATING INCOME $B Platform Adjacent REVENUE SUMMARY Higher platform ASPs from stronger core mix was partially offset by platform volume decline primarily from TAM contraction in the enterprise and government market segment. Adjacent growth driven by the continued expansion of Intel Silicon Photonics in 2019. Comparing 2019 to 2018, revenue from cloud service providers was up 13%, enterprise and government was down 14%, and communications service providers was up 6% (up 40%, up 2%, and up 25%, respectively, comparing 2018 to 2017). 2019 2018 2018 2017 (Dollars in Millions) % Growth $ Impact % Growth $ Impact Platform volume down (3)% $ (654 ) up 13% $ 2,334 Platform ASP up 5% 940 up 7% 1,382 Adjacent products up 11% 204 up 13% 211 Total change in revenue $ 490 $ 3,927 OPERATING INCOME SUMMARY Operating income decreased 11% year over year, and operating margin was 44% in 2019. (In Millions) $ 10,227 2019 Operating Income (805 ) Higher period charges, primarily associated with the initial ramp of 10nm (510 ) Higher operating expenses primarily related to R&D (140 ) Lower gross margin from adjacent businesses (80 ) Higher platform unit cost 370 Higher gross margin from platform revenue (84 ) Other $ 11,476 2018 Operating Income 3,445 Higher gross margin from platform revenue (350 ) Higher platform unit cost (14 ) Other $ 8,395 2017 Operating Income MD&A 20 Table of Contents As more intelligence is moving to the edge, more industries are harnessing the power of data to create business value, to innovate, and to grow. We are using our architecture, accelerators, and software assets, combined with scale and partners, to develop a growing Internet of Things portfolio. Our Internet of Things portfolio is comprised of our IOTG and Mobileye businesses. IOTG develops high-performance compute for targeted verticals and embedded markets. Mobileye is the global leader in the development of computer vision and machine learning-based sensing, data analysis, localization, mapping, and driving policy technology for ADAS and autonomous driving. INTERNET OF THINGS GROUP OVERVIEW IOTG develops high-performance compute for targeted verticals and embedded markets. Our customers include retailers, manufacturers, healthcare providers, energy companies, automakers, and governments. We facilitate our customers creating, storing, and processing data generated by connected devices to accelerate business transformations. HIGHLIGHTS AND SEGMENT IMPERATIVES IOTG achieved record revenue and operating income in 2019 on broad business strength and growing demand for edge computing and computer vision-based applications. Since 2015, IOTG has had average revenue growth of 14% and operating income growth of 22% per year. "Intels pioneering work in AI and proven data-centric strategy enabled us to predict the massive opportunity of edge computingyears ahead of the industry. Edge is not just a theoretical market opportunity. Together with our ecosystem partners and developers, were delivering on this vision today and driving tangible financial results." Tom Lantzsch, IOTG General Manager We see significant opportunity for growth driven by an architectural shift toward edge computing, which extends compute from centralized points to be closer to the source inputs. We continue to provide updated solutions to accelerate market adoption of computer vision and AI applications. This includes advances in existing offerings such as the OpenVINO toolkit, development of the Edge AI Nanodegree* with Udacity to enrich and train the next generation of developers, and the release of Intel AI DevCloud for the Edge, which allows customers to identify Edge AI solutions that deliver the best mix of performance, power, and price. To deliver on the transformative promise of the Internet of Things, we are working with our ecosystem partners to continue to grow the portfolio of Intel IoT Market Ready Solutions (Intel IMRS)scalable, end-to-end solutions that provide solid business results today and lay the foundation for the future. Currently, IOTG has over 170 Intel IMRS supporting approximately 5,000 new end-to-end deployments in more than 100 countries. MD&A 21 Table of Contents 5-YEAR TRENDS Revenue $B Year over Year Growth Op Income $B Year over Year Growth MARKET AND BUSINESS OVERVIEW Market trends and strategy The Internet of Things market sits at the center of a global digital transformation. Through a robust network of devices, software, and sensors, the Internet of Things is transforming the way businesses create products, deliver services, and conduct operationsfrom schools and hospitals, to retailers and smart factories. Internet of Things-based solutions represent one of the fastest growing segments within the semiconductor industry. However, the Internet of Things is a highly fragmented market with a diverse collection of competitors, products, and vertical segments. Many retailers are sitting on mountains of data that can be used to proactively address evolving customer demands. IOTG provides solutions that enable retailers to extract the right insights from their data, in the right place, at the right time, allowing them to use intelligence to transform their businesses to achieve their full potential. The result is greater efficiency, reduced complexity, increased sales, and a more personalized customer experience. As a result of consumer preference for more customization and higher-quality manufactured goods, a new kind of factory is emergingone that is cloud connected and data driven. It is an intelligent factory marked by hyper-agility, autonomous production, and the use of data as a transformative force for the business. We help cities and infrastructure providers turn data into actionable insights to enable smarter, safer, and more efficient solutions. Infrastructure providers and cities are seeking the best ways to use Internet of Things technology to enhance the quality of services, improve public safety, reduce congestion, and achieve new levels of efficiency. By 2022, we expect approximately 82% of data traffic will be video 1 . Processing high-quality video requires the ability to rapidly analyze vast streams of data near the source and to respond to that data in real time, moving only relevant insights to the cloud. Rather than a one-size-fits-all solution, Intel offers a powerful portfolio of scalable hardware and software solutions, including the OpenVINO toolkit and the new Intel Vision Accelerator Design products, to move into an intelligent, data-powered future and to meet the various performance, power, and price requirements of any business, in any industry. Products and competitiveness We have a long-standing position as a supplier of components and software for embedded products. This marketplace continues to expand significantly, with increasing types and numbers of smart and connected devices for retail, industrial, and consumer uses, including smart video. As this market segment evolves, we face numerous large and small incumbent processor competitors, as well as new entrants that use the ARM* architecture and other operating systems and software. In addition, the Internet of Things requires a broad range of connectivity solutions and we face competition from semiconductor companies providing traditional wireless solutions such as cellular, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth , as well as several new entrants who are taking advantage of new focused communications protocols. IOTG utilizes platform and adjacent products across Intel while making the investments needed to adapt products to the specific requirements for our vertical segments. We offer end-to-end solutions with our wide spectrum of products, including Intel Atom , Intel Core , and Intel Xeon processor-based computing, wireless connectivity, FPGAs, Movidius VPUs, and developer tools such as the OpenVINO software toolkit. IOTG product development focuses on addressing the key challenges businesses face when implementing Internet of Things solutions, including interoperability, connectivity, safety, security, industrial use conditions, and long-life support. 1 Source: Cisco Visual Networking Index: Forecast and Trends, 2017-2022, updated February 27, 2019. MD&A 22 Table of Contents MOBILEYE OVERVIEW Mobileye is the global leader in driving assistance and automation solutions. Our product portfolio employs a broad set of technologies, covering computer vision and machine learning-based sensing, data analysis, localization, mapping, and driving policy technology for ADAS and autonomous driving. Mobileyes ADAS products form the building blocks for higher levels of autonomy. Our customers and strategic partners include major global OEMs and Tier 1 automotive system integrators. HIGHLIGHTS AND SEGMENT IMPERATIVES We achieved record revenue and operating income in 2019 primarily due to the increased adoption of ADAS. Our EyeQ* SoC volume grew approximately 43% and we expect to see additional growth in the adoption of enhanced ADAS technologies. Mobileye is fueling Intels entry into the Mobility-as-a-Service business and is fully committed to building on its leadership and know-how in the ADAS market in order to bring truly safe and scalable autonomous mobility to the market. Prof. Amnon Shashua, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mobileye We had more than 30 new design wins, 47 active production programs 1 across 25 OEMs, and 16 program launches, including an industry-first 100-degree front-facing camera. Production vehicles equipped with our EyeQ*4 SoC and REM TM technology are deployed across the globe and by the end of 2019 were collecting up to approximately 6 million kilometers of data each day. This data is automatically aggregated with high update frequency into "Roadbook, a high-definition map, which is an essential component for Robotaxi (autonomous taxis), consumer AV, and the fast-growing L2+ segment. The insights gained from this data enhance existing driver-assistance propositions and provide customers with superior driving experiences, performance, and additional safety. MARKET AND BUSINESS OVERVIEW Market trends and strategy The adoption of ADAS is expanding as consumers increasingly consider ADAS a differentiating factor in their automotive purchasing decisions . The continued growth of ADAS is dependent on various factors, including regulation, market demand, and consumers' recognition of its value. Mobileye's ADAS solutions also serve as a qualification space for our autonomous technology, using vast experience and proliferation to validate and constantly improve AV technology. AV technologies, in turn, make their way into premium ADAS solutions, broadening monetization opportunities and value proposition. The AV-ADAS interplay allows Mobileye to sustain its technology leadership. Car manufacturers are looking to enhance current L2+ solutions by improving system fidelity, availability, and performance. High-definition maps with constant updates, global coverage, and various semantic features are a prerequisite for L2+ applications and the future deployment of Robotaxi and passenger car autonomy (Consumer AV). Canonical mapping methods rely on extensive manual labor and dedicated mapping vehicles. Mobileye's disruptive REM crowdsource mapping technology provides automatic map creation and updates. REM mapping capabilities are also being leveraged to extend the value of static and dynamic data to businesses in new market segments such as smart cities and infrastructure surveys. We believe the future of autonomous driving will unfold in two phases: commercial Robotaxi and series-production passenger car Consumer AV. We expect Consumer AV to materialize only after the Robotaxi industry deploys and matures. The main inhibitors of a mass market product offering of Consumer AV are the cost of AV technology, ability to scale at a low cost, regulation structure, and public acceptance. Thus, we see the Robotaxi phase as a necessary corridor to Consumer AV. Mobileye is well positioned to play a significant role in the broader MaaS market with the commercialization of Robotaxi and the future Consumer AV market. Our full-stack self-driving systemgeared with our camera-centric backbone and vast experience in productizing cutting-edge technology in the automotive industryis the foundation for developing an economically competitive AV solution. Proliferation of data-collection vehicles alongside REM technology will allow for low-cost geographic expansion and coverage. Thus, Mobileye is entering the MaaS market segment as an end-to-end service provider at scale. 1 Intel's definition is included in "Key Terms" within the Financial Statements and Supplemental Details. MD&A 23 Table of Contents Products and competitiveness At its core, Mobileye's offering for ADAS and AV is propelled by our computer vision and AI expertise and software assets, deployed on our EyeQ* SoC family. The tight co-design of hardware and software gives the EyeQ* SoC the ability to support complex and computationally intense tasks and sets it apart from competition because it is purpose-fit for high-compute, low-power, automotive-compliant mission profiles. Mobileyes 5th generation EyeQ*5 SoC is designed to act as the central computer for fully autonomous driving vehicles. Mobileye has been able to achieve power, performance, and cost targets by employing proprietary computational cores that are optimized for a wide variety of computer vision, signal processing, and machine learning tasks, including deep neural networks. Starting with EyeQ*5, Mobileye is supporting an automotive-grade standard operating system and providing a complete software development kit to allow customers to differentiate their solutions by deploying their algorithms on EyeQ*5. The EyeQ*5 SoC will be in final sampling stages in 2020 and is expected to be in commercial vehicles starting in 2021. The EyeQ*5 SoC is already operational in Mobileyes autonomous test vehicles. EyeQ*5 serves as the computational foundation for Mobileyes scalable camera-only surround sensing system. The system consists of multiple independent computer vision engines and deep networks for algorithmic redundancy. The result is a robust and comprehensive model of the environment that allows end-to-end autonomous driving. The surround computer vision system is the backbone of Mobileyes autonomous vehicle architecture and the flagship offering for next-generation ADAS. The next significant building block in Mobileyes complete offering is REM mapping technology, which compiles crowdsourced mapping data from EyeQ* SoC-equipped vehicles. Our REM Roadbook offering can enhance current ADAS applications through a variety of advanced features, including predictive adaptive cruise control, lane-level localization in all weather and road conditions, hands-free driving application, and real-time alerts, such as for construction activity and road hazards. The third building block in Mobileyes full stack offering is our unique formal model for AV safety (RSS). At its core, RSS is a pragmatic method to design and then to efficiently validate the safety of an AV, serving as the governing safety layer for the decision-making system. RSS formalizes human decision making for safe driving under two main principles: First, it acknowledges the need to balance safety with useful driving by making plausible worst-case scenario assumptions for other road users; and second, it provides a technology-neutral model and a transparent framework for the regulatory endeavor of building an industry standard for safety. MD&A 24 Table of Contents FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INTERNET OF THINGS REVENUE $B INTERNET OF THINGS OP INCOME $B IOTG Mobileye 1 REVENUE SUMMARY 2019 2018 IOTG net revenue increased $366 million , or 11% , driven by $283 million higher ASPs from stronger core mix and $92 million higher IOTG platform unit sales, partially offset by lower revenue from our divestiture of Wind River in Q2 2018, which negatively impacted the revenue comparison by approximately $153 million in the first half of 2019. After adjusting for Wind River, IOTG revenue grew $519 million , or 16% , year over year. Mobileye net revenue was $879 million , up $181 million due to increasing adoption of ADAS. 2018 2017 IOTG net revenue increased $286 million , or 9% , driven by $632 million higher IOTG platform unit sales, offset by $212 million mix of platform products sold and $134 million lower adjacent revenue due to the divestiture of Wind River in Q2 2018. After adjusting for Wind River, IOTG revenue grew $447 million , or 16% , year over year. Revenue grew due to strength across the retail, industrial, video, and other market segments. OPERATING INCOME SUMMARY 2019 2018 IOTG operating income increased $117 million primarily due to higher platform revenue from stronger core mix offset by higher period charges related to reserves taken on legacy products. Mobileye operating income was $245 million , up $102 million driven by growth in revenue partially offset by higher spending. 2018 2017 IOTG operating income increased $330 million due to higher revenue and lower spending as we reprioritized investments within the automotive business and Wind River. 1 Mobileye was acquired in Q3 2017; 2017 figures do not represent full-year results. MD&A 25 OVERVIEW NSG is a technology leader in next-generation memory and storage products based on breakthrough Intel Optane technology and Intel 3D NAND technology. NSG is disrupting the memory and storage hierarchy with new tiers that balance capacity, performance, and cost. We offer 64-layer TLC and QLC NAND high-capacity SSDs, and unparalleled low latency and high performance with Intel Optane technologyboth available in innovative new form factors and densities to address the memory and storage challenges our customers face in a rapidly evolving technological landscape. Our customers include enterprise and cloud-based data centers, and users of business and consumer desktops and laptops. HIGHLIGHTS AND SEGMENT IMPERATIVES The world is generating data at an accelerating rate, and businesses are increasingly becoming overwhelmed with how to efficiently process it. Harvesting value from all this data will be critical in separating the winners from losers. It will require cutting-edge innovation in the memory-and-storage hierarchy, which is what we are driving at Intel. Rob Crooke, NSG General Manager We achieved record revenue in 2019 driven by storage and memory bit TAM 1 growth, despite significant NAND market pricing pressure. We are taking steps to improve NAND profitability. We launched Intel Optane memory H10 with Solid State Storage, the first to deliver responsiveness and capacity for the PC with the combination of Intel Optane memory and Intel QLC 3D NAND technology for thin-and-light notebooks and space-constrained platforms. We launched the Intel Optane SSD DC D4800X, the first dual-port SSD with Intel Optane technology with redundant data paths for data availability, and industry-leading combination of high throughput and low latency for mission-critical enterprise storage solutions. Our product roadmap includes our next generation of Intel Optane DC persistent memory and our 2nd generation Intel Optane SSD, which are being developed in the new center of Intel Optane technology advancement at Intels Fab 11x in New Mexico. 5-YEAR TRENDS Revenue $B Year over Year Growth Op Income $B 1 Source: Intel calculated TAM growth derived from industry analyst reports. MD&A 26 Table of Contents MARKET AND BUSINESS OVERVIEW Market trends and strategy As a result of the combination of ever-exploding growth in data and the desire to analyze data for actionable insights, our customers are faced with balancing performance and real-time access and cost. Our technology innovations enable various tiers of memory and storage to ensure that critical, or "hot," data is close to the CPU for rapid access to larger data sets with Intel Optane-based products and efficient cost-effective capacity storage with Intel 3D NAND TLC and QLC technology. Non-volatile memory bit TAM 1 grew 40% in 2019 as significant increases in storage and memory technologies were required to meet customer needs. Conversely, revenue TAM contracted 23% year over year due to an over-inventoried market through the first half of 2019. Our focus continues to be within the high-performance compute, financial services, cloud service provider, and Internet usage market segments. Products and competitiveness We compete against other providers of NAND flash memory products. We focus our efforts primarily on incorporating NAND flash memory into solution products and on our innovative Intel Optane technology, which offers a unique combination of performance, density, power, non-volatility, and cost advantages that redefines the memory storage hierarchy between conventional DRAM memory and NAND. We believe that our memory offerings, including our Intel Optane technology, complement our product offerings in our other segments. The acceleration in data growth across our customer base requires significant innovation in storage and memory technology. Our storage and memory roadmap led the way in re-imagining usages and architecting innovative solutions that have disrupted the industry with 64-layer 3D NAND TLC and QLC solutions. We launched five new products to keep up with the evolving business needs of our customers. These new products have driven our 64-layer products to be more than 90% of 2019 NSG volume and we have seen a meaningful ramp in the Intel Optane technology business. In 2019 we launched our line of Intel Optane DC persistent memory products, available for 2nd generation Intel Xeon processor platforms for data center usages. This technology redefines the memory storage hierarchy and offers the performance of memory with the large capacities and persistence characteristics of storage. We are also leading the way in delivering responsiveness and capacity to the latest generation PCs with the industrys first drive to combine Intel Optane memory and Intel QLC 3D NAND technology. This new technology will enable innovative new form factors and higher capacity drives. 1 Source: Intel calculated TAM growth derived from industry analyst reports. MD&A 27 Table of Contents FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE NSG REVENUE $B NSG OPERATING INCOME $B REVENUE SUMMARY 2019 2018 Net revenue increased $55 million , driven by a $3.9 billion increase in unit sales due to an increase in demand for NAND products, offset by a $3.8 billion impact from lower ASP due to lower NAND market pricing. 2018 2017 Net revenue increased $787 million , driven by a $2.6 billion increase in unit sales due to strong demand in data center and client SSD and the ramp of Intel Optane technology products, partially offset by $1.8 billion lower ASP due to NAND market pricing weakness and mix of products sold. OPERATING INCOME SUMMARY 2019 2018 NSG had an operating loss of $1.2 billion , down from an operating loss of $5 million in 2018. The operating loss was driven by $3.8 billion lower ASPs, partially offset by $1.6 billion of improved unit cost and $1.1 billion higher unit sales. While we continued to see the ramp at Fab 68 drive cost improvements, the decline in ASP and the absence of $160 million in government grants recognized in Q3 2018 more than offset improved unit cost, resulting in lower gross margin. 2018 2017 Operating income improved $255 million as our sales mix shifted to our latest 64-layer NAND and we continued to see the cost ramp at Fab 68. The improved unit costs and higher unit sales more than offset the decline in ASP. In addition, we had a total of $160 million earned government grants benefiting 2018. MD&A 28 Table of Contents OVERVIEW PSG offers programmable semiconductors, primarily FPGAs, structured ASICs, and related products, for a broad range of market segments, including communications, data center, industrial, and military. The PSG product portfolio delivers FPGA acceleration in tandem with Intel microprocessors and enables Intel to combine the benefits of its broad portfolio of technologies to allow more flexibility for systems to operate with increased efficiency and higher performance. HIGHLIGHTS AND SEGMENT IMPERATIVES PSG revenue was down 6% year over year driven by a decline in our cloud and enterprise market segment, partially offset by strength in wireless and advanced products. "Intel FPGAs and structured ASICs accelerate key workloads on Intel-based platforms and provide the flexibility and agility that enable our customers to innovate and adapt to changing requirements with highly customized hardware and software solutions. David Moore, PSG General Manager We announced the new 10nm Intel Agilex TM FPGA family that will offer customers application-specific optimization and customization to bring new levels of flexibility and agility to data-intensive infrastructure. We began shipping engineering samples to customers. We extended our Intel Stratix 10 FPGA and Intel Programmable Acceleration Card (Intel PAC) families, which deliver new technology innovations and enable further synergy with Intels complete portfolio, including support for Intel Ultra Path Interconnect (Intel UPI) and a controller for Intel Optane technology to enable coherent memory and memory expansion with Intel Xeon Scalable processors and other Intel products. PSGs FPGA technology and structured ASIC technology play an important role in Intels portfolio and platform strategy, enabling acceleration and programmability for customers in all data-focused markets. 4-YEAR TRENDS Revenue $B Year over Year Growth Op Income $B MD&A 29 Table of Contents MARKET AND BUSINESS OVERVIEW Market trends and strategy With the rise of pervasive connectivity and autonomous transactions, vast networks of devices and systems are linked from the edge through infrastructure to the cloud. The Intel FPGA portfolio enables this transformation with discrete FPGAs and software-defined, hardware-based, multi-function acceleration cards that allow faster development times, high performance, and power efficiency with lower overall total cost of ownership. PSG enables a broad range of solutions targeting the data center, wireless, networking, military, medical, and industrial market segments. The configurability and efficiency of FPGAs provide advantages to enable transformative applications such as 5G wireless, network function virtualization acceleration, and edge acceleration for video analytics and Industry 4.0. At the edge, where systems ingest large amounts of data, Intel FPGAs are ideal for pre-processing data to accelerate Intel processors. In the network, where data traffic is increasing and network functions are being virtualized to improve transport efficiency, Intel FPGAs are built to deliver high-bandwidth aggregation and processing. In the cloud, where workloads shift dynamically and algorithms change, Intel FPGAs are the ideal solution for adapting to new demands through reconfigurability. Products and competitiveness PSG delivers solutions in the PLD market, primarily FPGAs and structured ASICs, to accelerate applications that help secure, power, and connect billions of devices and the infrastructure of the smart, connected, data-centric world. We face competition from other programmable logic companies, as well as companies that make other types of semiconductor products, such as ASICs, application-specific standard products, GPUs, digital signal processors, and CPUs. Targeted growth areas for our programmable solutions include communications, data center, industrial, and military applications. The FPGA life cycle is long relative to other Intel products. It generally takes three or more years from the time that a design win is secured before a customer starts volume production and we receive the associated revenue. PSG expanded its FPGA silicon portfolio by offering additional capability with the Intel Stratix 10 FPGA family and by introducing the brand-new Intel Agilex FPGA family. The Intel Agilex FPGA family combines FPGA fabric built on Intels 10nm process with innovative heterogeneous 3D SiP technology, which provides the capability to integrate analog, memory, custom computing, custom I/O, and Intel eASIC device tiles into a single package with the FPGA fabric. Intel Agilex FPGAs began shipping to early access program customers. PSG also expanded its Intel PAC portfolio with the introduction of the Intel PAC N3000 and Intel PAC D5005. The Intel PAC portfolio, complete with an acceleration software stack, enables customers to plug cards directly into an Intel Xeon processor-based server for application accelerations in markets such as 5G, finance, genomics, video transcoding, and database acceleration. PSG continues to invest in the Intel eASIC silicon portfolio of structured ASICs. These products serve as an intermediary technology between FPGAs and standard-cell ASICs that provides lower unit cost and lower power compared to FPGAs, and faster time-to-market and lower non-recurring engineering cost compared to standard-cell ASICs. Intel eASIC products have growth opportunities through adoption in 5G applications and scale across a wide range of markets. MD&A 30 Table of Contents FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE PSG REVENUE $B PSG OPERATING INCOME $B REVENUE SUMMARY 2019 2018 Revenue decreased $136 million , driven by a decline in our cloud and enterprise market segment, offset by strength in wireless and advanced products. 2018 2017 Revenue increased $221 million , driven by growth in the data center market segment and our advanced products (28nm, 20nm, and 14nm process technologies), which grew approximately 60% from 2017 . OPERATING INCOME SUMMARY 2019 2018 Operating income decreased $148 million , driven by lower revenue in our cloud and enterprise market segment, offset by strength in wireless and advanced products. 2018 2017 Operating income was flat year over year, at $466 million . Revenue increased from the growth in the data center and advanced products, but was offset by higher costs from an unfavorable product mix and increased investments. MD&A 31 OVERVIEW As we evolve to deliver leading end-to-end products across architectures and workloads for the data explosion, CCGs contribution is the human touchpoint of this new data-centric erathe PC. As the largest business unit at Intel, CCG deploys platforms that connect people to data, allowing each person to focus, create, and engage in ways that unlock their individual potential. The PC market remains a critical facet of our business, providing an important source of IP, scale, and cash flow. Our mission is to continue to deliver leadership products in our PC business as well as our adjacent businesses. HIGHLIGHTS AND SEGMENT IMPERATIVES We delivered our fourth consecutive year of revenue growth and record operating profit as we managed through supply constraints. We maintained focus on high-growth segments and disciplined portfolio management. Since 2015, we have increased profitability by 86%. "I believe we can transform the PC into a platform that powers every person's greatest contribution by enabling them to focus, create, and engage in more meaningful ways." Gregory Bryant, CCG General Manager Delivering an annual cadence of leadership products is foundational to our business . This year, we introduced our 10th Gen Intel Core processor-based systems built on 10nm process technology and launched our new 9th Gen Intel Core vPro processors. We are accelerating the pace of innovation to deliver new experiences and form factors. We launched Project Athena, a multi-year innovation program, designed to deliver advanced laptops. We exited the 5G smartphone modem business, while continuing to meet current customer commitments for our existing 4G modem product lines. We are also assisting OEM partners in the development, certification, and support of 5G modem solutions for PCs. 5-YEAR TRENDS Revenue $B Year over Year Growth Op Income $B Year over Year Growth MD&A 32 Table of Contents MARKET AND BUSINESS OVERVIEW Market trends and strategy Overall market conditions continue to improve, but we are operating in an increasingly competitive market. With continued investment in product and process technology, and in partnership with our customers, we are delivering platform innovation across several key vectors. We were supply constrained particularly at the value-end of the market as higher than expected PC demand outpaced our supply. We made capacity investments to improve our supply throughout the year, increasing our second-half PC CPU supply by double digits compared with the first half of this year. Supply remains tight in our PC business, where we are operating with limited inventory buffers. Products and competitiveness We are accelerating the pace of innovation and delivering an annual cadence of leadership products , including for modern notebooks and high-end enthusiast PCs. We deliver value to our customers by leveraging our engineering capabilities and working with our partners to deliver technology across every major vector of the computing experience, including performance, battery life, connectivity , memory, graphics, and form factors to create the most advanced PC platforms . We introduced our 10th Gen Intel Core processor, previously referred to as Ice Lake, a highly integrated new CPU core architecture with new Gen11 graphics, first integrated Wi-Fi6 (11AX) and Thunderbolt 3 connectivity, and Intel Deep Learning Boost. Built on Intels advanced 10nm process technology, these processors deliver increased graphics performance, AI, and new levels of integrated connectivity for thin-and-light laptops and 2-in-1s. Further, they give our OEM partners the freedom to innovate on design and aesthetic by reducing the silicon footprint while still delivering the latest standards and world-class performance. We also expanded our 9th Gen family with 14 new Intel Core vPro processors for high-performance mobile and desktop PCs, bringing the Intel Core i9 processor to the best-for-business platform for the first time. We launched Intel Xeon E workstation processors with up to eight cores, 16 threads, 5-GHz turbo frequency, Wi-Fi 6 (Gig+), Intel Optane memory; and delivered a special edition i9-9900KS desktop SKU, with 5-GHz all-core turbo and Intel Performance Maximizer. In May 2019, we launched our multi-year innovation program, Project Athena, with more than 20 verified devices on shelves in time for the holiday season. These devices meet the criteria of our Project Athena 1.0 specification, and are tested and verified in Intel labs to ensure they deliver new experience targets or key experience indicators defined by real-world usage models and innovation across six areas: instant action, performance and responsiveness, intelligence, battery life, connectivity, and form factor. Our platform products continue to be enhanced by new adjacent technologies. We launched the Wi-Fi6 11X connectivity solution, the first Wi-Fi6 solution in the PC market, featuring faster speeds, increased throughput, and better experiences. We are driving new industry standards for USB-C connector-based products with Thunderbolt 3. In addition, we are delivering a new level of performance and high-capacity storage with Intel Optane memory H10 with Solid State Storage to enable enhanced SSD experiences. Our advanced pace of innovation is more important than ever as we are operating in an increasingly competitive market. We face strong competition from AMD, as well as vendors who use applications processors based on ARM* architecture, such as Qualcomm Inc. (Qualcomm), and customers who internally develop their own semiconductors . We are expecting an increasingly competitive environment in 2020. MD&A 33 Table of Contents FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CCG REVENUE $B CCG OPERATING INCOME $B Platform Adjacent REVENUE SUMMARY Decreased unit sales due to supply constraints particularly at the value-end of the market, and lower market share. Increased demand for performance products drove strong product mix and higher ASP as the commercial market segment remained strong. Strength in modem drove higher adjacent revenue. 2019 2018 2018 2017 (Dollars in Millions) % $ Impact % $ Impact Desktop platform volume down (6)% $ (705 ) down (6)% $ (608 ) Desktop platform ASP up 3% 307 up 11% 1,181 Notebook platform volume down (5)% (1,080 ) up 4% 839 Notebook platform ASP up 5% 929 up 3% 677 Adjacent products and other 691 912 Total change in revenue $ 142 $ 3,001 OPERATING INCOME SUMMARY Operating income increased 7% year over year, and operating margin was 41% in 2019. (In Millions) $ 15,202 2019 Operating Income 1,425 Lower period charges primarily due to lower factory start-up costs and sell-through of previously reserved non-qualified platform product associated with our 10nm process technology 725 Lower operating expenses primarily driven by lower investment in modem (1,170 ) Higher platform unit cost (145 ) Lower gross margin from platform revenue 145 Other $ 14,222 2018 Operating Income 2,080 Higher gross margin from platform revenue 235 Lower operating expenses (690 ) Higher platform unit cost due to increased mix to performance products (225 ) Higher period charges, primarily due to reserved non-qualified platform product as we ramp 10nm (97 ) Other $ 12,919 2017 Operating Income MD&A 34 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our transformation to a data-centric company continued in 2019 as we experienced strong demand and reached critical product milestones. Most of our segments experienced continued growth with record total revenue for the fourth year in a row. Years Ended (In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 December 30, 2017 Amount % of Net Revenue Amount % of Net Revenue Amount % of Net Revenue Net revenue $ 71,965 100.0 % $ 70,848 100.0 % $ 62,761 100.0 % Cost of sales 29,825 41.4 % 27,111 38.3 % 23,663 37.7 % Gross margin 42,140 58.6 % 43,737 61.7 % 39,098 62.3 % Research and development 13,362 18.6 % 13,543 19.1 % 13,035 20.8 % Marketing, general and administrative 6,150 8.5 % 6,750 9.5 % 7,452 11.9 % Restructuring and other charges 393 0.5 % (72 ) (0.1 )% 384 0.6 % Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles 200 0.3 % 200 0.3 % 177 0.3 % Operating income 22,035 30.6 % 23,316 32.9 % 18,050 28.8 % Gains (losses) on equity investments, net 1,539 2.1 % (125 ) (0.2 )% 2,651 4.2 % Interest and other, net 484 0.7 % 126 0.2 % (349 ) (0.6 )% Income before taxes 24,058 33.4 % 23,317 32.9 % 20,352 32.4 % Provision for taxes 3,010 4.2 % 2,264 3.2 % 10,751 17.1 % Net income $ 21,048 29.2 % $ 21,053 29.7 % $ 9,601 15.3 % Earnings per share - Diluted $ 4.71 $ 4.48 $ 1.99 MD&A 35 Table of Contents REVENUE Compared to a year ago, data-centric revenue was up 3% , driven by a strong mix of high-performance product sales in the second half of 2019, partially offset by TAM contraction in the DCG enterprise and government market segment and continued pressure on NAND pricing. Our PC-centric business was flat, driven by a strong mix of higher performance products as the commercial segment of the PC market remained strong, and modem continued to grow, offset by lower year over year platform volume. Our total revenue grew from $55.4 billion in 2015 to $72.0 billion in 2019 , representing 7% CAGR. Data-centric businesses collectively grew faster than Intel as a whole at 11% CAGR over the last five years, and are approaching 50% of our revenue. PC TO DATA-CENTRIC TRANSFORMATION OVER THE LAST 5 YEARS PC-centric $B Data-centric $B Data-centric as a % of total Intel revenue SEGMENT REVENUE WALK $B 2019 2018 In 2019 , revenue was $72.0 billion , up $1.1 billion , or 2% , from 2018 . Our data-centric businesses collectively grew 3% year over year and made up nearly half of our total revenue in 2019 . Platform ASPs increased due to stronger core mix offset by a decline in NSG ASPs due to lower NAND market pricing and a decrease in DCG platform unit sales as the enterprise and government market segment contracted. Our PC-centric business was flat year over year as ASP strength from richer commercial segment mix and modem growth were offset by declines in platform volume. 2018 2017 In 2018 , revenue was $70.8 billion , up $8.1 billion , or 13% , from 2017 . The increase in revenue was primarily driven by strong performance across our data-centric businesses, which collectively grew 18% year over year and made up nearly half of our total revenue in 2018 . Our Mobileye business had revenue of $698 million . Our PC-centric business grew 9% , above our expectations, due to PC TAM 1 growth and demand for our leadership products. The increase in 2018 revenue was partially offset by the loss of revenue from businesses that were divested, specifically $534 million from the divestiture of the ISecG and approximately $165 million from the divestiture of Wind River. 1 S ource: Intel calculated PC TAM derived from industry analyst reports. MD&A 36 Table of Contents GROSS MARGIN We derived most of our overall gross margin dollars from the sale of platform products in the DCG and CCG operating segments. Our overall gross margin dollars in 2019 decreased by $1.6 billion , or 4% , compared to 2018 , and in 2018 increased by $4.6 billion , or 12% , compared to 2017 . In 2019, our adjacent products revenue continued to grow primarily due to memory and modem products, which have a lower gross margin percentage than our overall average. Lower platform unit sales and margin compression on memory products resulted in lower gross margins, which were partially offset by platform ASP strength. GROSS MARGIN $B (Percentages in chart indicate gross margin as a percentage of total revenue) (In Millions) $ 42,140 2019 Gross Margin (1,360 ) Lower gross margin from adjacent businesses primarily due to NAND, DCG adjacencies, and PSG offset by higher gross margin on Mobileye (1,300 ) Higher platform unit cost primarily from increased mix of performance products 580 Higher gross margin from platform revenue 490 Lower period charges primarily due to lower factory start-up costs and sell-through of previously reserved non-qualified platform product, offset by higher initial production costs associated with our 10nm process technology (7 ) Other $ 43,737 2018 Gross Margin 5,810 Higher gross margin from platform revenue (1,085 ) Higher platform unit cost, primarily from increased mix of performance products (86 ) Other, primarily due to impact from divestitures, offset by higher gross margin from adjacent businesses $ 39,098 2017 Gross Margin MD&A 37 Table of Contents OPERATING EXPENSES Total R&D and MG&A expenses for 2019 were $19.5 billion , down 4% from 2018 . These expenses represented 27.1% of revenue for 2019 and 28.6% of revenue for 2018 . We continue to invest in R&D to accelerate our growth and profitability while driving operational efficiencies to reduce our MG&A spending. Over the next three years, we plan to continue to reduce our spending as a percentage of revenue down to 25%. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT $B MARKETING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE $B (Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 2019 2018 R&D spending decreased by $181 million, or 1%, driven by the following: - Ramp down of 5G smartphone modem business and other projects - Profit-dependent compensation - Corporate spending efficiencies + Investments in our data-centric businesses + Investments in process technology 2018 2017 R&D spending increased by $508 million, or 4%, driven by the following: + Investments in our data-centric businesses + Investments in 10nm process technology + Profit-dependent compensation due to an increase in net income - Lower expenses due to the divestiture of ISecG in Q2 2017 and Wind River in Q2 2018 MARKETING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE 2019 2018 MG&A spending decreased by $600 million, or 9%, driven by the following: - Corporate spending efficiencies - Reduction in marketing programs - Profit-dependent compensation - Lower expenses due to the Wind River divestiture in Q2 2018 2018 2017 MG&A spending decreased by $702 million, or 9%, driven by the following: - Reduction in marketing programs - Lower acquisition costs due to our 2017 acquisition of Mobileye - Lower expenses due to the divestiture of ISecG in Q2 2017 and Wind River in Q2 2018 - Change to the Intel Inside Program in 2017 + Olympics* sponsorship in 2018 + Profit-dependent compensation due to an increase in net income MD&A 38 Table of Contents GAINS (LOSSES) ON EQUITY INVESTMENTS AND INTEREST AND OTHER, NET Years Ended (In Millions) Dec 28, 2019 Dec 29, 2018 Dec 30, 2017 Ongoing mark-to-market adjustments on marketable equity securities $ 277 $ (129 ) $ Observable price adjustments on non-marketable equity securities 293 202 Impairment charges (122 ) (424 ) (833 ) Sale of equity investments and other 1,091 226 3,484 Gains (losses) on equity investments, net $ 1,539 $ (125 ) $ 2,651 Interest and other, net $ 484 $ 126 $ (349 ) GAINS (LOSSES) ON EQUITY INVESTMENTS, NET Ongoing mark-to-market net gains and losses reported in 2019 and 2018 were primarily driven by ASML Holding N.V. (ASML) and Cloudera Inc. (Cloudera). During 2019 we sold our equity investment in ASML. In 2019 , we recognized $293 million in observable price adjustments primarily from one investment. During 2018, we recognized an impairment charge of $290 million in our equity method investment in IMFT. During 2017, we recognized impairment charges in our investments of Cloudera for $278 million and Unisoc for $ 308 million . Major drivers of sales of equity investments and other in 2019 were dividends of $632 million from McAfee and a gain of $107 million from our sale of our non-controlling interest in IMFT. In 2017, we recognized $3.4 billion in realized gains on sales of a portion of our interest in ASML. INTEREST AND OTHER, NET We recognized a higher net gain in interest and other in 2019 compared to 2018, primarily due to lower loss on debt conversions and larger divestiture gains in 2019 compared to 2018. We recognized a net gain in interest and other in 2018 compared to a net loss in 2017, primarily due to lower losses on debt conversions, higher assets under construction resulting in more capitalized interest, and larger divestiture gains in 2018 compared to 2017. MD&A 39 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We consider the following when assessing our liquidity and capital resources: (Dollars in Millions) Dec 28, 2019 Dec 29, 2018 Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and trading assets $ 13,123 $ 11,650 Other long-term investments $ 3,276 $ 3,388 Loans receivable and other $ 1,239 $ 1,550 Reverse repurchase agreements with original maturities greater than three months $ 350 $ 250 Total debt $ 29,001 $ 26,359 Temporary equity $ 155 $ 419 Debt as a percentage of permanent stockholders equity 37.4 % 35.4 % Cash generated by operations is our primary source of liquidity. When assessing our sources of liquidity, we include investments as shown in the preceding table. We maintain a diverse investment portfolio that we continually analyze based on issuer, industry, and country. Substantially all of our investments in debt instruments and financing receivables are in investment-grade securities. Other potential sources of liquidity include our commercial paper program and our automatic shelf registration statement on file with the SEC, pursuant to which we may offer an unspecified amount of debt, equity, and other securities. Under our commercial paper program, we have an ongoing authorization from our Board of Directors to borrow up to $10.0 billion . As of December 28, 2019 , no commercial paper remained outstanding. During 2019 , we issued a total of $2.8 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes and received proceeds of $648 million aggregate principal amount of bonds issued by the Industrial Development Authority of the City of Chandler, Arizona and the State of Oregon Business Development Commission. We also redeemed our $915 million , 4.70% senior notes due December 2045 . Additionally, w e repaid $170 million of our 3.25% senior notes that matured in December 2019 and paid $1.5 billion in cash to satisfy conversion requests for a portion of our $2.0 billion 2009 Debentures. In November 2019, we issued a notice of redemption for the remaining $372 million of 2009 Debentures with a redemption date of January 9, 2020. We believe we have sufficient financial resources to meet our business requirements in the next 12 months, including capital expenditures for worldwide manufacturing and assembly and test; working capital requirements; and potential acquisitions, strategic investments, dividends, and common stock repurchases. "Our finance team plays a fundamental role in partnering with the business to ensure we have the capital and financial resources available to fund our global operations and future growth initiatives." Sharon Heck, Corporate Vice President, Treasurer, and Chief Tax Officer MD&A 40 Table of Contents SOURCES AND USES OF CASH (In Millions) In summary, our cash flows for each period were as follows: Years Ended (In Millions) Dec 28, 2019 Dec 29, 2018 Dec 30, 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 33,145 $ 29,432 $ 22,110 Net cash used for investing activities (14,405 ) (11,239 ) (15,762 ) Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities (17,565 ) (18,607 ) (8,475 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,175 $ (414 ) $ (2,127 ) MD&A 41 Table of Contents OPERATING ACTIVITIES Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in assets and liabilities. For 2019 compared to 2018 , the $3.7 billion increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to changes in working capital. Changes in working capital were driven by taxes, other assets and liabilities, and accounts receivable, offset by customer utilization of prepaid supply agreement payments and inventory build. For 2018 compared to 2017 , the $7.3 billion increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to higher net income, offset by changes in working capital. Changes in working capital were driven by taxes and accounts receivables, offset by relatively flat inventory levels. Income taxes paid, net of refunds, in 2018 compared to 2017 were flat as the benefit of a lower U.S. corporate tax rate was offset by the payment related to the 2017 U.S. Tax Reform transition tax. We received $ 1.4 billion of customer deposits and prepaid supply agreements in 2018, net of customer utilization, compared to $ 1.1 billion in 2017. INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investing cash flows consist primarily of capital expenditures; investment purchases, sales, maturities, and disposals; and proceeds from divestitures and cash used for acquisitions. Our capital expenditures were $16.2 billion in 2019 ( $15.2 billion in 2018 and $11.8 billion in 2017 ). The increase in cash used for investing activities in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to net trading asset activity, acquisitions, and capital expenditures. The increase was partially offset by net available-for-sale debt investment activity. The decrease in cash used for investing activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to lower cash paid on acquisitions and increased cash from net trading asset activity. This was partially offset by increased capital expenditures, net available-for-sale debt investments activity, decreased proceeds from divestitures, and decreased sales of equity investments (substantially all from ASML sales). FINANCING ACTIVITIES Financing cash flows consist primarily of repurchases of common stock, payment of dividends to stockholders, issuance and repayment of short-term and long-term debt, and proceeds from the sale of shares of common stock through employee equity incentive plans. The decrease in cash used for financing activities in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to increased long-term debt issuance, offset by increased repurchases of common stock. During 2019 , we repurchased $13.6 billion of common stock under our authorized common stock repurchase program, compared to $10.7 billion in 2018 . In October 2019, the Board of Directors approved a $20.0 billion increase in our authorized stock repurchase program authorization, and we announced that we expect to repurchase $20.0 billion in stock over the next 15 to 18 months. As of December 28, 2019 , $23.8 billion remained available for repurchasing common stock under the repurchase authorization limit. In general, we base our level of common stock repurchases on internal cash management decisions, and this level may fluctuate in the future. Our total dividend payments were $5.6 billion in 2019 compared to $5.5 billion in 2018 . We have paid a cash dividend in each of the past 109 quarters. In Q1 2020, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.33 per share of common stock, payable on March 1, 2020 to stockholders of record on February 7, 2020. The increase in cash used for financing activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to decreased long-term debt issuance and increased repurchases of common stock. MD&A 42 Table of Contents CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS Significant contractual obligations as of December 28, 2019 were as follows: Payments Due by Period (In Millions) Total Less Than 1 Year 13 Years 35 Years More Than 5 Years Operating lease obligations 1 $ 595 $ 178 $ 232 $ 128 $ 57 Capital purchase obligations 2 10,918 9,300 1,595 14 9 Other purchase obligations and commitments 3 2,757 1,636 947 147 27 Tax obligations 4 4,442 10 746 1,853 1,833 Long-term debt obligations 5 41,328 4,706 8,510 3,508 24,604 Other long-term liabilities 6 1,692 898 640 40 114 Total 7 $ 61,732 $ 16,728 $ 12,670 $ 5,690 $ 26,644 1 Operating lease obligations represent the undiscounted lease payments under non-cancelable leases, but exclude non-lease components. 2 Capital purchase obligations represent commitments for the construction or purchase of property, plant and equipment. They were not recorded as liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 28, 2019 , as we had not yet received the related goods nor taken title to the property. 3 Other purchase obligations and commitments include payments due under various types of licenses and agreements to purchase goods or services. 4 Tax obligations represent the future cash payments related to Tax Reform enacted in 2017 for the one-time transition tax on our previously untaxed foreign earnings. For further information, see " Note 9: Income Taxes " within the Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 Amounts represent principal payments for all debt obligations and interest payments for fixed-rate debt obligations. Interest payments on floating-rate debt obligations, as well as the impact of fixed-rate to floating-rate debt swaps, are excluded. Debt obligations are classified based on their stated maturity date, regardless of their classification on the Consolidated Balance Sheet s. 6 Amounts represent future cash payments to satisfy other long-term liabilities recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, including the short-term portion of these long-term liabilities. Derivative instruments are excluded from the preceding table, because they do not represent the amounts that may ultimately be paid. 7 Total excludes contractual obligations already recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as current liabilities, except for the short-term portions of long-term debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. The expected timing of payments of the obligations in the preceding table is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different, depending on the time of receipt of goods or services, or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. Contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services included in "Other purchase obligations and commitments" in the preceding table include agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. For obligations with cancellation provisions, the amounts included in the preceding table were limited to the non-cancelable portion of the agreement terms or the minimum cancellation fee. For the purchase of raw materials, we have entered into certain agreements that specify minimum prices and quantities based on a percentage of the total available market or based on a percentage of our future purchasing requirements. Due to the uncertainty of the future market and our future purchasing requirements, as well as the non-binding nature of these agreements, obligations under these agreements have been excluded from the preceding table. Our purchase orders for other products are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within short time horizons. In addition, some of our purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Contractual obligations that are contingent upon the achievement of certain milestones have been excluded from the preceding table. Approximately half of our milestone-based contracts are tooling related for the purchase of capital equipment. These arrangements are not considered contractual obligations until the milestone is met by the counterparty. As of December 28, 2019 , assuming that all future milestones are met, the additional required payments would be approximately $498 million . For the majority of RSUs granted, the number of shares of common stock issued on the date the RSUs vest is net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements that we pay in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of our employees. The obligation to pay the relevant taxing authority is excluded from the preceding table, as the amount is contingent upon continued employment. In addition, the amount of the obligation is unknown, as it is based in part on the market price of our common stock when the awards vest.