Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Overview -- New Accounting Guidance. Our technologies may not be become patented, adopted by wireless standards or widely deployed. We invest significant resources in the development of advanced technology and related solutions. However, certain of our inventions that we believe will be employed in current and future products, including 4G and beyond, are the subject of patent applications where no patent has been issued to us yet by the relevant patent issuing authorities. There is no assurance that these applications will issue as patents, either at all or with claims that would be required by products in the market currently or in the future. Our investments may not be recoverable or may not result in meaningful revenue if a sufficient number of our technologies are not patented and adopted by the relevant standards or if products based on the technologies in which we invest are not widely deployed. Competing technologies could reduce the opportunities for the adoption or 12 Table of Contents deployment of technologies we develop. If the technologies in which we invest do not become patented or are not adopted by the relevant standards or are not adopted by and deployed in the mainstream markets, at all or at the rate or within time periods we expect, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We have in the past and may in the future make acquisitions or investments or engage in other strategic transactions that could result in significant changes, costs and/or management disruption and that may fail to enhance shareholder value or produce the anticipated benefits. We have in the past and may in the future acquire companies (such as our recent acquisition of Hillcrest Labs), businesses, technology and/or intellectual property, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions. In addition, we may make investments in other entities by purchasing minority equity interests or corporate bonds/notes in publicly traded or privately held companies. Acquisitions or strategic investments may increase our costs, including but not limited to accounting and legal fees, and may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. Most strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and may not become liquid for a period of time, if at all. In some cases, strategic investments may serve as consideration for a license in lieu of cash royalties. In addition, other investments may not generate financial returns or may result in losses due to market volatility, the general level of interest rates and inflation expectations. We have in the past and may in the future make strategic investments in early-stage companies, which require us to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of those companies. Our share of any such losses may adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to these investments. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions (including our recent acquisition of Hillcrest Labs) depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired companies, businesses and/or assets in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of acquired companies or businesses may result in significant challenges, including, among others: successfully integrating new employees, technology and/or products; consolidating research and development operations; minimizing the diversion of managements attention from ongoing business matters; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. As a result, we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In addition, we cannot be certain that the integration of acquired companies, businesses, technology and/or intellectual property with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits we anticipate to result from such acquisitions. Our plans to integrate and/or expand upon research and development programs and technologies obtained through acquisitions may result in products or technologies that are not adopted by the market, or the market may adopt solutions competitive to our products or technologies. We may not derive any commercial value from the acquired technology or intellectual property or from future technologies or products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property. In addition, to the extent we are separately seeking a patent license from a customer or customers of an acquired entity, the acquired entity may lose such customers. Following the completion of the acquisition, we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by the indemnification protection we may obtain and we may encounter patent validity, infringement or enforcement issues or unforeseen expenses not uncovered during our diligence process. Any acquired company or business would be subject to its own risks that may or may not be the same as the risks already disclosed herein. Challenges relating to our ability to enter into new license agreements could cause our revenue and cash flow to decline. We face challenges in entering into new patent license agreements. One of the most significant challenges we face is that most potential licensees do not voluntarily seek to enter into license agreements with us before they commence manufacturing and/or selling devices that use our patented inventions. As a result, we must approach companies that are reluctant to take licenses and attempt to establish license agreements with them. The process of identifying potential users of our inventions and negotiating license agreements with reluctant prospective licensees requires significant time, effort and expense. Once discussions with unlicensed companies have commenced, we face the additional challenges imposed by the significant negotiation issues that arise from time to time. Given these challenges relating to our ability to enter into new license agreements, we cannot ensure that all prospective licensees will be identified or, if they are identified, will be persuaded during negotiations to enter into a patent license agreement with us, either at all or on terms acceptable to us, and, as a result, our revenue and cash flow could materially decline. The length of time required to negotiate a license agreement also leads to delays in the receipt of the associated revenue stream, which could also cause our revenue and cash flow to decline. In addition, as discussed more fully above, we are currently operating in a challenging regulatory and judicial environment, which may, under certain circumstances, lead to delays in the negotiation of and entry into new patent license agreements. Also, as discussed below and in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this Form 10-K, we are also currently, and may in the future be, involved in legal proceedings with potential licensees, with whom we do not yet have a patent license agreement. Any such delays in the negotiation or entry into new patent license agreements and receipt of the associated revenue stream could cause our revenue and cash flow to decline. Our revenues are derived primarily from a limited number of licensees or customers. 13 Table of Contents We earn a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of licensees or customers, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to come from a limited number of licensees or customers for the foreseeable future. For example, in 2016, Apple, Huawei, Pegatron and Samsung accounted for approximately 25%, 23%, 20% and 10% of our total revenues, respectively. In the event that we are unable to renew one or more of such license agreements upon expiration, our future revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. In addition, in the event that one or more of our significant licensees or customers fail to meet their payment or reporting obligations (for example, due to a credit issue or in connection with a legal dispute or similar proceeding) under their respective license agreements, our future revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this Form 10-K for a description of our material legal proceedings. In addition, in the event that there is a material decrease in shipments of licensed products by one of our significant per-unit licensees, our revenues from such licensee could significantly decline and our future revenue and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our plans to broaden our revenue sources through enhanced intellectual property sourcing, joint ventures, and developing or acquiring technology in new or expanded areas, such as in the IoT space, may not be successful and could materially adversely affect our long-term business, financial condition and operating results. As part of our business strategy, we are seeking to broaden our revenue sources through targeted acquisitions, research partnerships, joint ventures and the continued development of new technologies. Increasingly, our future growth in part depends on developing or acquiring technology in new or expanded areas and adjacent industry segments outside of traditional cellular industries, such as the IoT, including the connected home and smart cities, automotive, mobile computing, mobile health and sensor technology, and on third parties incorporating our technology and solutions into device types used in these areas and industry segments. There is no guarantee that we will succeed in acquiring or developing technology and patents or partnering with inventors and research organizations to create new revenue opportunities and/or add new dimensions to our existing portfolio of intellectual property and potentially create new patent licensing programs. Also, our development activities may experience delays, which could reduce our opportunities for patent licensing or other avenues of revenue generation related to such development activities. In the event that any of these risks materialize, our long-term business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our plans to expand our revenue sources through commercializing our market-ready technologies and acquiring and/or developing new technology with commercial applicability may not be successful and could materially adversely affect our long-term business, financial condition and operating results. As part of our business strategy, we are seeking to expand our revenue sources through the continued development, commercialization and licensing of technology projects. Our technology development and acquisition activities may experience delays, or the markets for our technology solutions may fail to materialize to the extent or at the rate we expect, if at all, each of which could reduce our opportunities for technology sales and licensing. In addition, there could be fewer applications for our technology and products than we expect. Technology markets also could be affected by general economic conditions, customer buying patterns, timeliness of equipment development, and the availability of capital for, and the high cost of, infrastructure improvements. Additionally, investing in technology development is costly and may require structural changes to the organization that could require additional costs, including without limitation legal and accounting fees. Furthermore, delays or failures to enter into additional partnering relationships to facilitate technology development efforts and secure support for our technologies or delays or failures to enter into technology licensing agreements to secure integration of additional functionality could impair our ability to introduce into the market portions of our technology and resulting products, cause us to miss critical market windows, or decrease our ability to remain competitive. Our investments in new commercial initiatives may not be successful or generate meaningful revenues. We have invested, and may continue to invest, in new businesses focused on commercializing technology that we have developed, incubated internally and/or acquired. Commercial success depends on many factors, including the demand for the technology, the highly competitive markets for our technology products, regulatory issues associated with such technology products, and effective marketing and licensing or product sales. In addition, our new technology offerings may require robust ecosystems of customers and service providers that may fail to materialize. Further, the establishment and operation of these commercial initiatives requires significant support, including technical, legal and financial resources. It is possible that these commercial initiatives will not be successful and/or will not achieve meaningful revenues for a number of years, if at all. Further, we may attempt to develop technologies or services that we believe we would be able to sell or license commercially using inside or outside technical, legal and financial resources. If our new commercial initiatives are not successful, or are not successful in the timeframe we anticipate, we may incur significant costs, our business may not grow as anticipated and/or our reputation may be harmed. In the event that any of these risks materialize, our long-term business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our strategy to diversify our patent-based revenue by pursuing alternative patent licensing arrangements and patent sales may not be successful. 14 Table of Contents There is no guarantee that we will succeed in our pursuit of select patent licensing arrangements or patent sales, and, if we are successful, there is no guarantee that the revenue and cash flow generated through such alternative licensing arrangements (such as the Signal Trust and the Avanci licensing platform) or patent sales will be greater than the revenue and cash flow we would have generated if we had retained and/or licensed the patents ourselves. In addition, potential licensees may be reluctant to enter into new patent license agreements, and current licensees may be reluctant to renew their agreements, either at all or on terms acceptable to the Company, based on the fact that we have sold portions of our patent portfolio or the belief that we plan to sell or transfer some of the patents we are asking them to license. We depend on key senior management, engineering, patent and licensing resources. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel with specialized patent, licensing, engineering and other skills. The market for such talent in our industry is extremely competitive. In particular, competition exists for qualified individuals with expertise in patents and in licensing and with significant engineering experience in cellular and air interface technologies. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel could be affected by any adverse decisions in any litigation, arbitration or regulatory proceeding, by our ability to offer competitive cash and equity compensation and work environment conditions and by the geographic location of our various offices. The failure to attract and retain such persons with relevant and appropriate experience could interfere with our ability to enter into new license agreements and undertake additional technology and product development efforts, as well as our ability to meet our strategic objectives. Royalty rates could decrease for future license agreements due to downward product pricing pressures and competition over a finite pool of patent royalties. Royalty payments to us under future license agreements could be lower than anticipated. Certain licensees and others in the wireless industry, individually and collectively, are demanding that royalty rates for patents be lower than historic royalty rates and/or that such rates should be applied to royalty bases smaller than the selling price of an end product (such as the smallest salable patent practicing unit). There is also increasing downward pricing pressure on certain wireless products, including handsets, that we believe implement our patented inventions, and some of our royalty rates are tied to the pricing of handsets. In addition, a number of other companies also claim to hold patents that are essential with respect to products for the cellular market. Demands by certain licensees to reduce royalties due to pricing pressure or the number of patent holders seeking royalties on their cellular technologies, could result in a decrease in the royalty rates we receive for use of our patented inventions, thereby decreasing future revenue and cash flow. Our revenue and cash flow are dependent upon our licensees' sales and market conditions and other factors that are beyond our control or are difficult to forecast. A portion of our licensing revenues is running royalty-based and dependent on sales by our licensees that are outside our control and that could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, including global, regional and/or country-specific economic conditions, country-specific natural disasters impacting licensee manufacturing and sales, buying patterns of end users, competition for our licensees' products and any decline in the sale prices our licensees receive for their covered products. In addition, our operating results also could be affected by general economic and other conditions that cause a downturn in the market for the licensees of our products or technologies. Our revenue and cash flow also could be affected by (i) the unwillingness of any licensee to satisfy all of their royalty obligations on the terms or within the timeframe we expect, (ii) a decline in the financial condition of any licensee or (iii) the failure of sales to meet market forecasts due to global or regional economic conditions, political instability, natural disasters, competitive technologies or otherwise. It is also difficult to predict the timing, nature and amount of licensing revenue associated with past infringement and new licenses, strategic relationships and the resolution of legal proceedings. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast and could adversely affect both our quarterly and annual operating results and financial condition. In addition, some of our patent license agreements provide for fixed payments or prepayments that cover our licensees' future sales for a specified period and reduce future cash receipts from those licensees. As a result, our cash flow has historically fluctuated from period to period. Depending upon the payment structure of any new patent license agreements into which we may enter, such cash flow fluctuations may continue in the future. Our revenue may be affected by the deployment of future-generation wireless standards in place of 3G and 4G technologies, by the timing of such deployment, or by the need to extend or modify certain existing license agreements to cover subsequently issued patents. Although we own an evolving portfolio of issued and pending patents related to 3G, 4G and 5G cellular technologies and non-cellular technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program for future-generation wireless standards may not be as successful in generating licensing income as our current licensing programs. Although we continue to participate in worldwide standards bodies and contribute our intellectual property to future-generation wireless standards, including standards that will 15 Table of Contents define 5G, our technologies might not be adopted by the relevant standards. In addition, we may not be as successful in the licensing of future-generation products as we have been in licensing 3G and 4G products, or we may not achieve a level of royalty revenues on such products that is comparable to that which we have historically received on 3G and 4G products. Furthermore, if there is a delay in the standardization and/or deployment of 5G, our business and revenue could be negatively impacted. The licenses that we grant under our patent license agreements typically only cover products designed to operate in accordance with specified cellular technologies and that were manufactured or deployed or anticipated to be manufactured or deployed at the time of entry into the agreement. Also, we have patent license agreements with licensees that now offer for sale types of products that were not sold by such licensees at the time the patent license agreements were entered into and, thus, are not licensed by us. We do not derive patent licensing revenue from the sale of products by our licensees that are not covered by a patent license agreement. In order to grant a patent license for any such products, we will need to extend or modify our patent license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. We may not be able to extend or modify these license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, on financial terms acceptable to us, without affecting the other material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees or at all. Further, such extensions, modifications or new license agreements may adversely affect our revenue on the sale of products covered by the license prior to any extension, modification or new license. Delays in renewing or an inability to renew existing license agreements could cause our revenue and cash flow to decline. Many of our license agreements have fixed terms. Although we endeavor to renew license agreements with fixed terms prior to the expiration of the license agreements, due to various factors, including the technology and business needs and competitive positions of our licensees and, at times, reluctance on the part of our licensees to participate in renewal discussions, we may not be able to renegotiate the license agreements on acceptable terms before the expiration of the license agreement, on acceptable terms after the expiration of the license agreement, or at all. If there is a delay in renegotiating and renewing a license agreement prior to its expiration, there could be a gap in time during which we may be unable to recognize revenue from that licensee or we may be forced to renegotiate and renew the license agreement on terms that are more favorable to such licensee, and, as a result, our revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to renegotiate and renew our license agreements at all, we could lose existing licensees, and our revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, uncertainty and shifting market opportunities. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to define and keep pace with changes in industry standards, technological developments and varying customer requirements. Changes in industry standards and needs could adversely affect the development of, and demand for, our technology, rendering our technology currently under development obsolete and unmarketable. The patents and applications comprising our portfolio have fixed terms, and, if we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to these changes through the development or acquisition of new patentable inventions, patents or other technology, we could miss a critical market opportunity, reducing or eliminating our ability to capitalize on our patents, technology solutions or both. We face risks from doing business in international markets. A significant portion of our licensees, potential licensees and customers are international, and our licensees, potential licensees and customers sell their products to markets throughout the world. Accordingly, we could be subject to the effects of a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including, but not limited to: difficulty in protecting our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions; enforcing contractual commitments in foreign jurisdictions or against foreign corporations; government regulations, tariffs and other applicable trade barriers; biased enforcement of foreign laws and regulations to promote industrial or economic policies at our expense; currency control regulations and variability in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currency; social, economic and political instability; natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war; potentially adverse tax consequences; and general delays in remittance of and difficulties collecting non-U.S. payments. In addition, we also are subject to risks specific to the individual countries in which we and our licensees, potential licensees and customers do business. Concentration and consolidation in the wireless communications industry could adversely affect our business. There is some concentration among participants in the wireless communications industry, and the industry has experienced consolidation of participants and sales of participants or their businesses, and these trends may continue. For example, in 2016, Samsung, Apple and Huawei collectively accounted for approximately 40% of worldwide shipments of 3G and 4G handsets. Any further concentration or sale within the wireless industry among handset providers and/or original design manufacturers ("ODMs") may reduce the number of licensing opportunities or, in some instances, result in the reduction, loss or elimination of existing royalty obligations. In addition, acquisitions of or consolidation among ODMs could 16 Table of Contents cause handset providers who outsource manufacturing to make supply chain changes, which in turn could result in the reduction, loss or elimination of existing royalty obligations (for example, if manufacturing is moved from an ODM with which we have a patent license agreement to an ODM with which we do not). Further, if wireless carriers consolidate with companies that utilize technologies that are competitive with our technologies or that are not covered by our patents, we could lose market opportunities, which could negatively impact our revenues and financial condition. Our use of open source software could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Certain of our technology and our suppliers technology may contain or may be derived from open source software, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a products source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. Licensing of such technology may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. For example, these obligations may require us to make source code for derivative works available or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different from what we customarily use to license our technology. While we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employ adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that, if we inappropriately use open source software, we may be required to re-engineer our technology, discontinue the sale of our technology, release the source code of our proprietary technology to the public at no cost or take other remedial actions, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. There is a risk that open source licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage. Our commercialization activities could lead to patent exhaustion or implied license issues that could materially adversely affect our business. The legal doctrines of patent exhaustion and implied license may be subject to different judicial interpretations. Our commercialization of certain technologies could potentially lead to patent exhaustion or implied license issues that could adversely affect our patent licensing program and limit our ability to derive licensing revenue from certain patents under such program. In the event of successful challenges by current or prospective licensees based on these doctrines that result in a material decrease to our patent licensing revenue, our financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Changes to our tax assets or liabilities could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. The calculation of tax assets and liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. We are subject to examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing jurisdictions on various tax matters, including challenges to various positions we assert in our filings and foreign tax liability and withholding. Pursuant to the guidance for accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, certain tax contingencies are recognized when they are determined to be more likely than not to occur. Although we believe we have adequately recorded tax assets and accrued for tax contingencies that meet this criterion, we may not fully recover our tax assets or may be required to pay taxes in excess of the amounts we have accrued. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, there were certain tax contingencies that did not meet the applicable criteria to record an accrual. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. It can be difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our per-unit licensing agreements, and this may cause us to lose potential revenue. The standard terms of our per-unit license agreements require our licensees to document the sale of licensed products and report this data to us on a quarterly basis. Although our standard license terms give us the right to audit books and records of our licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, incomplete and subject to dispute. From time to time, we audit certain of our licensees to verify independently the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports in an effort to decrease the likelihood that we will not receive the royalty revenues to which we are entitled under the terms of our license agreements, but we cannot give assurances that these audits will be numerous enough and/or effective to that end. We may experience difficulties implementing our new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We plan to implement a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system over the next year. The ERP system is designed to efficiently maintain our books and records and provide information important to the operation of our business to 17 Table of Contents our management team. Implementation of the new system is highly dependent on coordination of multiple software and system providers and internal business teams. We may experience difficulties as we transition to the new ERP system and processes, including loss or corruption of data, decreases in productivity as our personnel implement and become familiar with new systems and increased costs. In addition, transitioning to the new ERP system requires significant investment of financial and human resources. While we have invested significant resources in planning and project management and plan to maintain our existing ERP system for a period of time, significant implementation issues may arise with respect to the new ERP system. Difficulties in implementing the new system or significant system failures could disrupt our operations or lead to a delay or error in financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition or results of operations. The high amount of capital required to obtain radio frequency licenses, deploy and expand wireless networks and obtain new subscribers could slow the growth of the wireless communications industry and adversely affect our business. Our growth is dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services that utilize our technology. In order to provide wireless communications services, wireless operators must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the United States and other countries throughout the world, and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. Industry growth may be affected by the amount of capital required to obtain licenses to use new frequencies, deploy wireless networks to offer voice and data services, expand wireless networks to grow voice and data services and obtain new subscribers. The significant cost of licenses, wireless networks and subscriber additions may slow the growth of the industry if wireless operators are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement or expand advanced wireless networks. The growth of our business could be adversely affected if this occurs. Market projections and data are forward-looking in nature. Our strategy is based on our own projections and on analyst, industry observer and expert projections, which are forward-looking in nature and are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. The validity of their and our assumptions, the timing and scope of wireless markets, economic conditions, customer buying patterns, timeliness of equipment development, pricing of products, growth in wireless telecommunications services that would be delivered on wireless devices and availability of capital for infrastructure improvements could affect these predictions. In addition, market data upon which we rely is based on third party reports that may be inaccurate. The inaccuracy of any of these projections and/or market data could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We face competition from companies developing other or similar technologies. We face competition from companies developing other and similar technologies that are competitive with our products and solutions that we may market or set forth into the standards-setting arena. Due to competing products and solutions, our products and solutions may not find a viable commercial marketplace or, where applicable, be adopted by the relevant standards. In addition, in licensing our patent portfolio, we may compete with other companies, many of whom also claim to hold essential patents, for a share of the royalties that certain licensees may argue to be the total royalty that is supported by a certain product or products. In any device or piece of equipment that contains intellectual property, the manufacturer may need to obtain a license from multiple holders of intellectual property. To the extent that multiple parties all seek royalties on the same product, the manufacturers could claim to have difficulty in meeting the financial requirements of each patent holder. Our technology development activities may experience delays. We may experience technical, financial, resource or other difficulties or delays related to the further development of our technologies. Delays may have adverse financial effects and may allow competitors with comparable technology offerings to gain an advantage over us in the marketplace or in the standards setting arena. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have adequate staffing or that our development efforts will ultimately be successful. Moreover, certain of our technologies have not been fully tested in commercial use, and it is possible that they may not perform as expected. In such cases, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected, and our ability to secure new licensees and other business opportunities could be diminished. We rely on relationships with third parties to develop and deploy technology solutions. Successful exploitation of our technology solutions is partially dependent on the establishment and success of relationships with equipment producers and other industry participants. Delays or failure to enter into licensing or other relationships to facilitate technology development efforts or delays or failure to enter into technology licensing agreements to secure integration of additional functionality could impair our ability to introduce into the market portions of our technology and resulting products, cause us to miss critical market windows or impair our ability to remain competitive. Our business may be adversely affected if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights with respect to products and/or solutions that we sell or license. 18 Table of Contents Third parties may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights with respect to products and/or solutions we sell or license. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert managements attention and resources away from our business. Furthermore, third parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could block our ability to further develop or commercialize some of our technologies or services in the United States and abroad and could cause us to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards. Even if we have an agreement that provides for a third party to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to perform its contractual obligations. If we cannot use valid IP that we infringe at all or on reasonable terms, or substitute similar non-infringing technology from another source, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. We may be subject to warranty and/or product liability claims with respect to our products, which could be time-consuming and costly to defend and could expose us to loss and reputational damage. We may be subject to claims if customers of our product offerings are injured or experience failures or other quality issues. We may from time to time be subject to warranty and product liability claims with regard to product performance and our services. We could incur losses as a result of warranty, support, repair or replacement costs in response to customer complaints or in connection with the resolution of contemplated or actual legal proceedings relating to such claims. In addition to potential losses arising from claims and related legal proceedings, warranty and product liability claims could affect our reputation and our relationship with customers. Our engineering services business could subject us to specific costs and risks that we might fail to manage adequately. We derive a portion of our revenues from engineering services. Any mismanagement of, or negative development in, a number of areas, including, among others, the perceived value of our intellectual property portfolio, our ability to convince customers of the value of our engineering services and our reputation for performance under our service contracts, could cause our revenues from engineering services to decline, damage our reputation and harm our ability to attract future licensees, which would in turn harm our operating results. If we fail to deliver as required under our service contracts, we could lose revenues and become subject to liability for breach of contract. We need to monitor these services adequately in order to ensure that we do not incur significant expenses without generating corresponding revenues. Our failure to monitor these services adequately may harm our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues or increase the U.S. dollar cost of our activities and international strategic investments. We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which may change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. We operate and invest globally. Adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: If the effective price of products sold by our licensees were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty revenues. Assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries may be subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported earnings. Our exposure to foreign currencies may increase as we expand into new markets. Certain of our operating and investing costs, such as foreign patent prosecution, are based in foreign currencies. If these costs are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, strengthening currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our near-term operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. In addition, continued strengthening of currency values in selected regions over an extended period of time could adversely affect our future operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. If as a result of tax treaty procedures, the U.S. government reaches an agreement with certain foreign governments to whom we have paid foreign taxes, resulting in a partial refund of foreign taxes paid with a related reduction in our foreign tax credits, such agreement could result in foreign currency gain or loss. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated. These attempts, which in some cases could be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but, in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. While we have not identified any material incidents of unauthorized access to date, the theft, unauthorized use or publication of 19 Table of Contents our intellectual property and/or confidential business or personal information (whether through a breach of our own systems or the breach of a system of a third party that provides services to us) could harm our competitive or negotiating positions, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives, compromise our patent enforcement strategies or outlook, damage our reputation or otherwise adversely affect our business. In addition, to the extent that any future security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our employees, licensees, or customers confidential and /or personal information, we may incur liability or additional costs to remedy any damages caused by such breach. We could also be impacted by existing and proposed laws and regulations, as well as government policies and practices related to cybersecurity, privacy and data protection. If wireless handsets are perceived to pose health and safety risks, demand for products of our licensees could decrease. Media reports and certain studies have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to health concerns, such as brain tumors, other malignancies and genetic damage to blood, and may interfere with electronic medical devices, such as pacemakers, telemetry and delicate medical equipment. Growing concerns over radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, could discourage the use of wireless handsets and cause a decrease in demand for the products of our licensees. In addition, concerns over safety risks posed by the use of wireless handsets while driving and the effect of any resulting legislation could reduce demand for the products of our licensees. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and the 2020 Notes The price of our common stock is volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance. Historically, we have had large fluctuations in the price of our common stock, and such fluctuations could continue. From January 2, 2014 to February 21, 2017, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $26.25 per share to a high of $102.30 per share. The market price for our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: the public's response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC and announcements relating to licensing, technology development, litigation, arbitration and other legal proceedings in which we are involved and intellectual property impacting us or our business; announcements concerning strategic transactions, such as commercial initiatives, joint ventures, strategic investments, acquisitions or divestitures; financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; changes in GAAP, including new accounting standards that may materially affect our revenue recognition; changes in financial estimates or ratings by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our common stock; investor perceptions as to the likelihood of achievement of near-term goals; changes in market share of significant licensees; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other wireless communications companies generally; and market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole. In the past, shareholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under such indebtedness. Our total indebtedness as of December 31, 2016 was approximately $316.0 million. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our 1.50% Senior Convertible Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes"); reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. 20 Table of Contents Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the 2020 Notes. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under the 2020 Notes depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under the 2020 Notes and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including the 2020 Notes, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under the 2020 Notes, and this default could cause us to be in default on any other currently existing or future outstanding indebtedness. Our shareholders may not receive the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or any dividend at all, and any decrease in or suspension of the dividend could cause our stock price to decline. Our current dividend policy, contemplates the payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share on our outstanding common stock. We expect to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock at the rate set forth in our current dividend policy. However, the dividend policy and the payment and timing of future cash dividends under the policy are subject to the final determination each quarter by our Board of Directors that (i) the dividend will be made in compliance with laws applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends, including Section 1551(b) of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law, and (ii) the policy remains in our best interests, which determination will be based on a number of factors, including our earnings, financial condition, capital resources and capital requirements, alternative uses of capital, restrictions imposed by any existing debt, economic conditions and other factors considered relevant by the Board of Directors. Given these considerations, our Board of Directors may increase or decrease the amount of the dividend at any time and may also decide to vary the timing of or suspend or discontinue the payment of cash dividends in the future. Any decrease in the amount of the dividend, or suspension or discontinuance of payment of a dividend, could cause our stock price to decline. If securities or industry analysts fail to continue publishing research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the offering of the 2020 Notes may affect the value of the 2020 Notes and the market price of our common stock. In connection with each offering of the 2020 Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions (the option counterparties) and sold warrants to the option counterparties. These transactions will be accounted for as an adjustment to our shareholders equity. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected to reduce the potential equity dilution upon conversion of the 2020 Notes. The warrants will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. In connection with establishing their initial hedge of these transactions, the option counterparties (and/or their affiliates) purchased our common stock in open market transactions and/or privately negotiated transactions and/or entered various cash-settled derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly after, the pricing of the 2020 Notes. These activities could have the effect of increasing (or reducing the size of any decrease in) the price of our common stock concurrently with or following the pricing of the 2020 Notes. In addition, the option counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may modify their respective hedge positions from time to time (including during any observation period related to a conversion of the 2020 Notes) by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or by purchasing or selling our common stock in open market transactions and/or privately negotiated transactions. The potential effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales or other dilution of our equity could depress the market price of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We also have several institutional shareholders that own significant blocks of our common stock. If one or more of these shareholders were to sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Under certain circumstances, shares of our common stock could be issued upon conversion of the 2020 Notes, which would dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. In addition, the issuance of additional common stock, or issuances of securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock or other equity linked securities, including preferred stock or warrants, would dilute the ownership interest of our common shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Approved stock repurchase programs may not result in a positive return of capital to shareholders. Our board-approved stock repurchase program may not return value to shareholders because the market price of the stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Stock repurchase programs are intended to deliver shareholder value over the long term, but stock price fluctuations can reduce the effectiveness of such programs. Provisions of the 2020 Notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the 2020 Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of the 2020 Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their 2020 Notes or any portion of the principal amount of such 2020 Notes in integral multiples of $1,000. We may also be required to issue additional shares upon conversion in the event of certain fundamental change transactions. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. The option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that the option counterparties may default under the respective convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties is not secured by any collateral. Recent global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in our common stock market price and in volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurance as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties. The accounting method for convertible debt securities, such as the 2020 Notes, could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. In May 2008, the FASB, issued ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments, such as the 2020 Notes, that may be settled partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuers economic interest cost. ASC 470-20 requires the fair value of the conversion option of the 2020 Notes be reported as a component of shareholders equity and included in the additional paid-in-capital on our consolidated balance sheet. The value of the conversion option of the 2020 Notes will be reported as discount to the 2020 Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current periods amortization of the debt discount (non-cash interest) and the instruments cash interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the 2020 Notes. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. Item 2. PROPERTIES. Our headquarters are located in Wilmington, Delaware, USA. Our research and development activities are conducted primarily in facilities located in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, USA; Melville, New York, USA; Rockville, Maryland, USA; San Diego, California, USA; and Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The following table sets forth information with respect to our principal properties: 22 Table of Contents Location Approximate Square Feet Principal Use Lease Expiration Date Melville, New York 44,800 Office and research space February 2020 Wilmington, Delaware 36,200 Corporate headquarters November 2022 Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 30,300 Office and research space October 2026 Montreal, Quebec 17,300 Office and research space June 2021 Rockville, Maryland 16,700 Office and research space (Hillcrest Labs) February 2018 San Diego, California 11,800 Office and research space April 2018 We are also a party to leases for several smaller spaces, including our offices in London, England, United Kingdom, and Seoul, South Korea, that contain office and research space. In addition, we own a building in Washington, District of Columbia, USA, that houses administrative office space. We believe that the facilities described above are suitable and adequate for our present purposes and our needs in the near future. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. ARBITRATIONS AND COURT PROCEEDINGS (OTHER THAN DE DISTRICT COURT ACTIONS RELATED TO USITC PROCEEDINGS) Huawei China Proceedings On February 21, 2012, InterDigital was served with two complaints filed by Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. in the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court in China on December 5, 2011. The first complaint named as defendants InterDigital, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Technology Corporation and InterDigital Communications, LLC (now InterDigital Communications, Inc.), and alleged that InterDigital had abused its dominant market position in the market for the licensing of essential patents owned by InterDigital by engaging in allegedly unlawful practices, including differentiated pricing, tying and refusal to deal. The second complaint named as defendants the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Technology Corporation, InterDigital Communications, LLC (now InterDigital Communications, Inc.), InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc. and IPR Licensing, Inc. and alleged that InterDigital had failed to negotiate on FRAND terms with Huawei. Huawei asked the court to determine the FRAND rate for licensing essential Chinese patents to Huawei and also sought compensation for its costs associated with this matter. On February 4, 2013, the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court issued rulings in the two proceedings. With respect to the first complaint, the court decided that InterDigital had violated the Chinese Anti-Monopoly Law by (i) making proposals for royalties from Huawei that the court believed were excessive, (ii) tying the licensing of essential patents to the licensing of non-essential patents, (iii) requesting as part of its licensing proposals that Huawei provide a grant-back of certain patent rights to InterDigital and (iv) commencing a USITC action against Huawei while still in discussions with Huawei for a license. Based on these findings, the court ordered InterDigital to cease the alleged excessive pricing and alleged improper bundling of InterDigital's Chinese essential and non-essential patents, and to pay Huawei 20.0 million RMB (approximately $3.2 million) in damages related to attorneys fees and other charges, without disclosing a factual basis for its determination of damages. The court dismissed Huawei's remaining allegations, including Huawei's claim that InterDigital improperly sought a worldwide license and improperly sought to bundle the licensing of essential patents on multiple generations of technologies. With respect to the second complaint, the court determined that, despite the fact that the FRAND requirement originates from ETSI's Intellectual Property Rights policy, which refers to French law, InterDigital's license offers to Huawei should be evaluated under Chinese law. Under Chinese law, the court concluded that the offers did not comply with FRAND. The court further ruled that the royalties to be paid by Huawei for InterDigital's 2G, 3G and 4G essential Chinese patents under Chinese law should not exceed 0.019% of the actual sales price of each Huawei product. On March 11, 2013, InterDigital filed notices of appeal with respect to the judgments in both proceedings, seeking reversal of the courts February 4, 2013 rulings. On October 16, 2013, the Guangdong Province High Court issued a ruling 23 Table of Contents affirming the ruling of the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court in the second proceeding, and on October 21, 2013, issued a ruling affirming the ruling of the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court in the first proceeding. InterDigital believes that the decisions are seriously flawed both legally and factually. For instance, in determining a purported FRAND rate, the Chinese courts applied an incorrect economic analysis by evaluating InterDigitals lump-sum 2007 patent license agreement with Apple (the 2007 Apple PLA) in hindsight to posit a running royalty rate. Indeed, the ALJ in USITC Inv. No. 337-TA-800 rejected that type of improper analysis. Moreover, the Chinese courts had an incomplete record and applied incorrect facts, including with respect to the now-expired and superseded 2007 Apple PLA, which had been found in an arbitration between InterDigital and Apple to be limited in scope. On April 14, 2014, InterDigital filed a petition for retrial of the second proceeding with the Chinese Supreme Peoples Court (SPC), seeking dismissal of the judgment or at least a higher, market-based royalty rate for a license to InterDigitals Chinese standards-essential patents (SEPs). The petition for retrial argues, for example, that (1) the lower court improperly determined a Chinese FRAND running royalty rate by using as a benchmark the 2007 Apple lump sum fixed payment license agreement, and looking in hindsight at the unexpectedly successful sales of Apple iPhones to construct an artificial running royalty rate that neither InterDigital nor Apple could have intended and that would have varied significantly depending on the relative success or failure in hindsight of Apple iPhone sales; (2) the 2007 Apple PLA was also an inappropriate benchmark because its scope of product coverage was significantly limited as compared to the license that the court was considering for Huawei, particularly when there are other more comparable license agreements; and (3) if the appropriate benchmarks had been used, and the court had considered the range of royalties offered by other similarly situated SEP holders in the wireless telecommunications industry, the court would have determined a FRAND royalty that was substantially higher than 0.019%, and would have found, consistent with findings of the ALJs initial determination in the USITC 337-TA-800 proceeding, that there was no proof that InterDigitals offers to Huawei violated its FRAND commitments. The SPC held a hearing on October 31, 2014, regarding whether to grant a retrial and requested that both parties provide additional information regarding the facts and legal theories underlying the case. The SPC convened a second hearing on April 1, 2015 regarding whether to grant a retrial. If the retrial is granted, the SPC will likely schedule one or more additional hearings before it issues a decision on the merits of the case. The SPC retrial proceeding was excluded from the dismissal provisions of the August 2016 patent license agreement between Huawei and InterDigital, and a decision in this proceeding is still pending. ZTE China Proceedings On July 10 and 11, 2014, InterDigital was served with two complaints filed by ZTE Corporation in the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court in China on April 3, 2014. The first complaint names as defendants the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Technology Corporation, InterDigital Communications, Inc., InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc. and IPR Licensing, Inc. This complaint alleges that InterDigital has failed to comply with its FRAND obligations for the licensing of its Chinese standards-essential patents. ZTE is asking the court to determine the FRAND rate for licensing InterDigitals standards-essential Chinese patents to ZTE and also seeks compensation for its litigation costs associated with this matter. The second complaint names as defendants InterDigital, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Technology Corporation and InterDigital Communications, Inc. This complaint alleges that InterDigital has a dominant market position in China and the United States in the market for the licensing of essential patents owned by InterDigital, and abused its dominant market position in violation of the Chinese Anti-Monopoly Law by engaging in allegedly unlawful practices, including excessively high pricing, tying, discriminatory treatment, and imposing unreasonable trading conditions. ZTE seeks relief in the amount of 20.0 million RMB (approximately $2.9 million based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2016), an order requiring InterDigital to cease the allegedly unlawful conduct and compensation for its litigation costs associated with this matter. On August 7, 2014, InterDigital filed petitions challenging the jurisdiction of the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court to hear the actions. On August 28, 2014, the court denied InterDigitals jurisdictional challenge with respect to the anti-monopoly law case. InterDigital filed an appeal of this decision on September 26, 2014. On September 28, 2014, the court denied InterDigitals jurisdictional challenge with respect to the FRAND case, and InterDigital filed an appeal of that decision on October 27, 2014. On December 18, 2014, the Guangdong High Court issued decisions on both appeals upholding the Shenzhen Intermediate Courts decisions that it had jurisdiction to hear these cases. On February 10, 2015, InterDigital filed a petition for retrial with the Supreme Peoples Court regarding its jurisdictional challenges to both cases. The Shenzhen Court held hearings on the anti-monopoly law case on May 11, 13, 15 and 18, 2015. At the May hearings, ZTE withdrew its claims alleging discriminatory treatment and the imposition of unfair trading conditions and increased its damages claim to 99.8 million RMB (approximately $14.4 million based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2016). The Shenzhen Court held hearings in the FRAND case on July 29-31, 2015 and held a second hearing on the anti- 24 Table of Contents monopoly law case on October 12, 2015. Both cases remain pending. It is possible that the court may schedule further hearings in these cases before issuing its decisions. The Company has not recorded any accrual at December 31, 2016 for contingent losses associated with these matters based on its belief that losses, while reasonably possible, are not probable in accordance with accounting guidance. Pegatron Actions In first quarter 2015, we learned that on or about February 3, 2015, Pegatron Corporation (Pegatron) filed a civil suit in Taiwan Intellectual Property Court against InterDigital, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries alleging breach of the Taiwan Fair Trade Act (the Pegatron Taiwan Action). Pegatron and InterDigital entered into a patent license agreement in April 2008 (the Pegatron PLA). Pegatron was a subsidiary of Asustek Computer Incorporated until the completion of its spin-off from Asustek in June 2010. On May 26, 2015, InterDigital, Inc. received a copy of the civil complaint filed by Pegatron in the Taiwan Intellectual Property Court. The complaint named as defendants InterDigital, Inc. as well as InterDigitals wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Technology Corporation and IPR Licensing, Inc. (together, for purposes of this discussion, InterDigital). The complaint alleged that InterDigital abused its market power by improperly setting, maintaining or changing the royalties Pegatron is required to pay under the Pegatron PLA, and engaging in unreasonable discriminatory treatment and other unfair competition activities in violation of the Taiwan Fair Trade Act. The complaint sought minimum damages in the amount of approximately $52 million, which amount could be expanded during the litigation, and that the court order multiple damages based on its claim that the alleged conduct was intentional. The complaint also sought an order requiring InterDigital to cease enforcing the royalty provisions of the Pegatron PLA, as well as all other conduct that allegedly violates the Fair Trade Act. On June 5, 2015 InterDigital filed an Arbitration Demand with the American Arbitration Associations International Centre for Dispute Resolution (ICDR) seeking declaratory relief denying all of the claims in Pegatrons Taiwan Action and for breach of contract. On or about June 10, 2015, InterDigital filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, San Jose Division (the CA Northern District Court) seeking a Temporary Restraining Order, Preliminary Injunction, and Permanent Anti-suit Injunction against Pegatron prohibiting Pegatron from prosecuting the Pegatron Taiwan Action. The complaint also seeks specific performance by Pegatron of the dispute resolution procedures set forth in the Pegatron PLA and compelling arbitration of the disputes in the Pegatron Taiwan Action. On June 29, 2015, the court granted InterDigitals motion for a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction requiring Pegatron take immediate steps to dismiss the Taiwan Action without prejudice. On July 1, 2015, InterDigital was informed that Pegatron had withdrawn its complaint in the Taiwan Intellectual Property Court and that the case had been dismissed without prejudice. On August 3, 2015, Pegatron filed an answer and counterclaims to InterDigitals CA Northern District Court complaint. Pegatron accused InterDigital of violating multiple sections of the Taiwan Fair Trade Act, violating Section Two of the Sherman Act, breaching ETSI, IEEE, and ITU contracts, promissory estoppel (pled in the alternative), violating Section 17200 of the California Business & Professions Code, and violating the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act. These counterclaims stem from Pegatrons accusation that InterDigital violated FRAND obligations. As relief, Pegatron seeks a declaration regarding the appropriate FRAND terms and conditions for InterDigitals declared essential patents, a declaration that InterDigitals standard essential patents are unenforceable due to patent misuse, an order requiring InterDigital to grant Pegatron a license on FRAND terms, an order enjoining InterDigitals alleged ongoing breaches of its FRAND commitments, and damages in the amount of allegedly excess non-FRAND royalties Pegatron has paid to InterDigital, plus interest and treble damages. On August 7, 2015, Pegatron responded to InterDigitals arbitration demand, disputing the arbitrability of Pegatrons claims. On September 24, 2015, InterDigital moved to compel arbitration and dismiss Pegatrons counterclaims or, in the alternative, stay the counterclaims pending the parties arbitration. Pegatrons opposition to this motion was filed on October 22, 2015, and InterDigitals reply was filed on November 12, 2015. On January 20, 2016, the court granted InterDigitals motion to compel arbitration of Pegatrons counterclaims and to stay the counterclaims pending the arbitrators determination of their arbitrability. On January 27, 2016, the parties stipulated to stay all remaining aspects of the CA Northern District case pending such an arbitrability determination. On the same day, the court granted the stay and administratively closed the case. The arbitration remains pending. Asustek Actions On April 15, 2015, Asustek Computer Incorporated (Asus) filed a complaint in the CA Northern District Court against InterDigital, Inc., and its subsidiaries InterDigital Communications, Inc., InterDigital Technology Corporation, IPR Licensing, Inc., and InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc. The complaint asserted the following causes of action: violation of Section Two of the Sherman Act, violation of Section 17200 of the California Business and Professions Code, breach of contract resulting from ongoing negotiations, breach of contract leading to and resulting in the parties April 2008 patent license agreement (the 2008 Asus PLA), promissory estoppel, waiver, and fraudulent inducement to contract. Among other 25 Table of Contents allegations, Asus alleged that InterDigital breached its FRAND commitment. As relief, Asus sought a judgment that the 2008 Asus PLA is void or unenforceable, damages in the amount of excess royalties Asus paid under the 2008 Asus PLA plus interest, a judgment setting the proper FRAND terms and conditions for InterDigitals patent portfolio, an order requiring InterDigital to grant Asus a license on FRAND terms and conditions, and punitive damages and other relief. In response, on May 30, 2015, InterDigital filed an Arbitration Demand with the ICDR. InterDigital claimed that Asus breached the 2008 Asus PLAs dispute resolution provision by filing its CA Northern District Court lawsuit and sought declaratory relief that it is not liable for any of the claims in Asuss complaint. On June 2, 2015, InterDigital filed in the CA Northern District Court a motion to compel arbitration on each of Asuss claims. On August 25, 2015, the court granted InterDigitals motion for all of Asuss claims except its claim for breach of contract resulting from ongoing negotiations. Aside from this claim, the court ruled that the issue of arbitrability should be decided by an arbitrator, and stayed the proceedings pending that determination. Asus asserted counterclaims in the arbitration that mirrored its CA Northern District Court claims, except that it did not assert the breach of contract claim that the court determined was not arbitrable and it added a claim of violation of the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act. Asus also contended that its counterclaims were not arbitrable. InterDigital added a claim for breach of the 2008 Asus PLAs confidentiality provision. On July 14, 2016, Asus filed a motion to lift the stay in the CA Northern District Court proceeding along with a notice of the arbitral tribunals decision on arbitrability, informing the court of the arbitrators decision that, other than InterDigitals breach of contract claims and Asuss fraudulent inducement claim, no other claim or counterclaim is arbitrable. Asus then filed in the CA Northern District Court an amended complaint on August 18, 2016. This amended complaint includes all of the claims in Asuss first CA Northern District Court complaint except fraudulent inducement and adds a claim of violation of the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act. It seeks the same relief as its first CA Northern District Court complaint, but also seeks a ruling that each of InterDigitals patents declared [to standards-setting organizations] to be essential or potentially essential is unenforceable and any contracts InterDigital entered into in furtherance of its unlawful conduct are void. On September 8, 2016, InterDigital filed its answer and counterclaims to Asus amended complaint. It denied Asuss claims and filed a counterclaim for declaratory judgment that Asuss tort claims are invalid or preempted as applied under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, the Patent Clause of the U.S. Constitution, and Title 35 of the U.S. Code. On September 28, 2016, Asus answered and denied InterDigitals counterclaims. On December 16, 2016, the court set a case schedule that includes a May 2019 trial date. With respect to its arbitration counterclaim for fraudulent inducement, Asus stated in its recent pleadings that it was seeking return of excess royalties of close to $63 million, plus interest, costs and attorneys fees as of the time of the filing. The evidentiary hearing in the arbitration was held in January 2017. InterDigital has not yet received the arbitrators decision. The Company has not recorded any accrual at December 31, 2016, for contingent losses associated with these matters. While a material loss is reasonably possible, the Company cannot estimate the potential range of loss with respect to the arbitration matter given the range of possible outcomes, nor with respect to the CA Northern District Court proceeding, as this matter is not at a sufficiently advanced stage to allow for such an estimate. Microsoft Sherman Act Delaware Proceedings On August 20, 2015, Microsoft Mobile, Inc. and Microsoft Mobile Oy (collectively Microsoft) filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware (the Delaware District Court) against InterDigital, Inc., InterDigital Communications, Inc., InterDigital Technology Corporation, InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc., InterDigital Holdings, Inc., and IPR Licensing, Inc. The complaint alleges that InterDigital has monopolized relevant markets for 3G and 4G cellular technology in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act. As relief, Microsoft seeks declaratory judgments that InterDigital has violated Section 2 of the Sherman Act, that each of InterDigitals U.S. patents declared by it to be Essential to the 3G and 4G standards is unenforceable, and that all agreements InterDigital has entered into in furtherance of its alleged unlawful conduct are void. Microsoft also seeks an award of treble damages and the following injunctive relief: requiring InterDigital to grant Microsoft a non-confidential license to its U.S. standards essential patents (SEPs) on FRAND terms as determined by a court, requiring InterDigital to disclose to Microsoft the terms of its other SEP licenses, preventing InterDigital from enforcing any exclusion orders it might receive with respect to its SEPs, and requiring InterDigital to re-assign any declared SEPs that it has assigned to controlled entities. On November 4, 2015, InterDigital filed a motion to dismiss and to strike Microsofts complaint. A hearing on this motion was held on March 1, 2016, and on April 13, 2016, the Delaware District Court denied InterDigitals motion. On April 27, 2016, InterDigital filed a motion with the Delaware District Court to certify questions addressed in the courts April 13, 26 Table of Contents 2016 decision for interlocutory appeal. The court denied InterDigitals motion for certification of interlocutory appeal on June 13, 2016. On May 27, 2016, InterDigital filed its answer and counterclaims. InterDigital denied Microsofts claim that InterDigital violated Section 2 of the Sherman Act and asserted several defenses. InterDigital also filed two counterclaims for declaratory judgment: (i) that Microsofts Sherman Act claim is invalid and preempted as applied under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, the Patent Clause of the U.S. Constitution, and Title 35 of the U.S. Code; and (ii) that Microsoft waived entitlement to benefit from FRAND commitments by InterDigital due to Microsofts reverse hold-up behavior. Microsoft filed an answer to InterDigitals counterclaims on June 20, 2016. Trial is scheduled to begin in September 2018. REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS Investigation by Taiwan Fair Trade Commission On December 6, 2013, InterDigital received notice from the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission (TFTC) that the TFTC had initiated an investigation to examine alleged anti-competitive behavior under Taiwans Fair Trade Act (FTA). Companies found to violate the FTA may be ordered to cease and rectify the unlawful conduct, take other necessary corrective action, and/or pay an administrative fine. During second quarter 2016, InterDigital was informed by its local counsel that the staff of the TFTC has completed its investigation and has forwarded its recommendations to the Commission. InterDigital is fully cooperating with the TFTCs investigation. Investigation by National Development and Reform Commission of China On September 23, 2013, counsel for InterDigital was informed by Chinas National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) that the NDRC had initiated a formal investigation into whether InterDigital has violated Chinas Anti-Monopoly Law (AML) with respect to practices related to the licensing of InterDigitals standards-essential patents to Chinese companies. Companies found to violate the AML may be subject to a cease and desist order, fines and disgorgement of any illegal gains. On March 3, 2014, the Company submitted to NDRC, pursuant to a procedure set out in the AML, a formal application for suspension of the investigation that included proposed commitments by the Company. On May 22, 2014, NDRC formally suspended its investigation of the Company based on the commitments proposed by the Company. The Companys commitments with respect to the licensing of its patent portfolio for wireless mobile standards to Chinese manufacturers of cellular terminal units (Chinese Manufacturers) are as follows: 1. Whenever InterDigital engages with a Chinese Manufacturer to license InterDigitals patent portfolio for 2G, 3G and 4G wireless mobile standards, InterDigital will offer such Chinese Manufacturer the option of taking a worldwide portfolio license of only its standards-essential wireless patents, and comply with F/RAND principles when negotiating and entering into such licensing agreements with Chinese Manufacturers. 2. As part of its licensing offer, InterDigital will not require that a Chinese Manufacturer agree to a royalty-free, reciprocal cross-license of such Chinese Manufacturer's similarly categorized standards-essential wireless patents. 3. Prior to commencing any action against a Chinese Manufacturer in which InterDigital may seek exclusionary or injunctive relief for the infringement of any of its wireless standards-essential patents, InterDigital will offer such Chinese Manufacturer the option to enter into expedited binding arbitration under fair and reasonable procedures to resolve the royalty rate and other terms of a worldwide license under InterDigital's wireless standards-essential patents. If the Chinese Manufacturer accepts InterDigital's binding arbitration offer or otherwise enters into an agreement with InterDigital on a binding arbitration mechanism, InterDigital will, in accordance with the terms of the arbitration agreement and patent license agreement, refrain from seeking exclusionary or injunctive relief against such company. The commitments contained in item 3 above will expire five years from the effective date of the suspension of the investigation, or May 22, 2019. USITC PROCEEDINGS AND RELATED DELAWARE DISTRICT COURT PROCEEDINGS Nokia and ZTE 2013 USITC Proceeding (337-TA-868) and Related Delaware District Court Proceedings USITC Proceeding (337-TA-868) On January 2, 2013, the Companys wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Communications, Inc., InterDigital Technology Corporation, IPR Licensing, Inc. and InterDigital Holdings, Inc. filed a complaint with the United States 27 Table of Contents International Trade Commission (the USITC or Commission) against Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Samsung Electronics America, Inc. and Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC, Nokia Corporation and Nokia Inc., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Huawei Device USA, Inc. and FutureWei Technologies, Inc. d/b/a Huawei Technologies (USA) and ZTE Corporation and ZTE (USA) Inc. (collectively, the 337-TA-868 Respondents), alleging violations of Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 in that they engaged in unfair trade practices by selling for importation into the United States, importing into the United States and/or selling after importation into the United States certain 3G and 4G wireless devices (including WCDMA-, cdma2000- and LTE-capable mobile phones, USB sticks, mobile hotspots, laptop computers and tablets and components of such devices) that infringe one or more of up to seven of InterDigitals U.S. patents. The complaint also extended to certain WCDMA and cdma2000 devices incorporating Wi-Fi functionality. InterDigitals complaint with the USITC sought an exclusion order that would bar from entry into the United States infringing 3G or 4G wireless devices (and components), including LTE devices, that are imported by or on behalf of the 337-TA-868 Respondents, and also sought a cease-and-desist order to bar further sales of infringing products that have already been imported into the United States. Certain of the asserted patents were also asserted against Nokia, Huawei and ZTE in earlier pending USITC proceedings (including the Nokia, Huawei and ZTE 2011 USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800) and the Nokia 2007 USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613), as set forth below) and therefore were not asserted against those 337-TA-868 Respondents in this investigation. On December 23, 2013, InterDigital and Huawei reached a settlement agreement to enter into binding arbitration to resolve their global patent licensing disputes. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, InterDigital and Huawei moved to dismiss all litigation matters pending between the parties except the action filed by Huawei in China to set a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory (FRAND) rate for the licensing of InterDigitals Chinese standards-essential patents (discussed above under Huawei China Proceedings), the decision in which InterDigital is permitted to further appeal. As a result, effective February 12, 2014, the Huawei Respondents were terminated from the 337-TA-868 investigation. From February 10 to February 20, 2014, ALJ Essex presided over the evidentiary hearing in this investigation. The patents in issue in this investigation as of the hearing were U.S. Patent Nos. 7,190,966 (the 966 patent) and 7,286,847 (the 847 patent) asserted against ZTE and Samsung, and U.S. Patent No. 7,941,151 (the 151 patent) asserted against ZTE, Samsung and Nokia. On June 3, 2014, InterDigital and Samsung filed a joint motion to terminate the investigation as to Samsung on the basis of settlement. The ALJ granted the joint motion by initial determination issued on June 9, 2014, and the USITC determined not to review the initial determination on June 30, 2014. On June 13, 2014, the ALJ issued an Initial Determination (ID) in the 337-TA-868 investigation. In the ID, the ALJ found that no violation of Section 337 had occurred in connection with the importation of 3G/4G devices by ZTE or Nokia, on the basis that the accused devices do not infringe asserted claims 1-6, 8-9, 16-21 or 23-24 of the 151 patent, claims 1, 3, 6, 8, 9, or 11 of the 966 patent, or claims 3 or 5 of the 847 patent. The ALJ also found that claim 16 of the 151 patent was invalid as indefinite. Among other determinations, the ALJ further determined that InterDigital did not violate any FRAND obligations, a conclusion also reached by the ALJ in the 337-TA-800 investigation, and that Respondents have engaged in patent hold out. On June 30, 2014, InterDigital filed a Petition for Review with the USITC seeking review and reversal of certain of the ALJs conclusions in the ID. On the same day, Respondents filed a Conditional Petition for Review urging alternative grounds for affirmance of the IDs finding that Section 337 was not violated and a Conditional Petition for Review with respect to FRAND issues. In June 2014, Microsoft Mobile Oy (MMO) was added as a respondent in the investigation. On August 14, 2014, the Commission determined to review in part the June 13, 2014 ID but terminated the investigation with a finding of no violation. On October 10, 2014, InterDigital filed a petition for review with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the Federal Circuit), appealing certain of the adverse determinations in the Commissions August 8, 2014 final determination including those related to the 966 and 847 patents. On June 2, 2015, InterDigital moved to voluntarily dismiss the Federal Circuit appeal, because, even if it were to prevail, it did not believe there would be sufficient time following the courts decision and mandate for the USITC to complete its proceedings on remand such that the accused products would be excluded before the 966 and 847 patents expire in June 2016. The court granted the motion and dismissed the appeal on June 18, 2015. Related Delaware District Court Proceedings On January 2, 2013, the Companys wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Communications, Inc., InterDigital Technology Corporation, IPR Licensing, Inc. and InterDigital Holdings, Inc. filed four related district court actions in the 28 Table of Contents Delaware District Court against the 337-TA-868 Respondents. These complaints allege that each of the defendants infringes the same patents with respect to the same products alleged in the complaint filed by InterDigital in USITC Proceeding (337-TA-868). The complaints seek permanent injunctions and compensatory damages in an amount to be determined, as well as enhanced damages based on willful infringement, and recovery of reasonable attorneys fees and costs. On January 24, 2013, Huawei filed its answer and counterclaims to InterDigitals Delaware District Court complaint. Huawei asserted counterclaims for breach of contract, equitable estoppel, waiver of right to enjoin and declarations that InterDigital has not offered or granted Huawei licenses on FRAND terms, declarations seeking the determination of FRAND terms and declarations of noninfringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the asserted patents. In addition to the declaratory relief specified in its counterclaims, Huawei seeks specific performance of InterDigitals purported contracts with Huawei and standards-setting organizations, appropriate damages in an amount to be determined at trial, reasonable attorneys fees and such other relief as the court may deem appropriate. On January 31, 2013, ZTE filed its answer and counterclaims to InterDigitals Delaware District Court complaint; ZTE asserted counterclaims for breach of contract, equitable estoppel, waiver of right to enjoin and declarations that InterDigital has not offered ZTE licenses on FRAND terms, declarations seeking the determination of FRAND terms and declarations of noninfringement, invalidity and unenforceability. In addition to the declaratory relief specified in its counterclaims, ZTE seeks specific performance of InterDigital's purported contracts with ZTE and standards-setting organizations, appropriate damages in an amount to be determined at trial, reasonable attorneys fees and such other relief as the court may deem appropriate. On February 28, 2013, Nokia filed its answer and counterclaims to InterDigitals Delaware District Court complaint, and then amended its answer and counterclaims on March 5, 2013. Nokia asserted counterclaims for breach of contract, breach of implied contract, unfair competition under Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code 17200, equitable estoppel, a declaration setting FRAND terms and conditions, a declaration that InterDigital is estopped from seeking an exclusion order based on its U.S. declared-essential patents, a declaration of patent misuse, a declaration that InterDigital has failed to offer FRAND terms, a declaration that Nokia has an implied license to the asserted patents, and declarations of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability. In addition to the declaratory relief specified in its counterclaims, Nokia seeks an order that InterDigital specifically perform its purported contracts by not seeking a USITC exclusion order for its essential patents and by granting Nokia a license on FRAND terms and conditions, an injunction preventing InterDigital from participating in a USITC investigation based on essential patents, appropriate damages in an amount to be determined, including all attorneys fees and costs spent in participating in all three USITC Investigations (337-TA-868, 337-TA-800 and 337-TA-613), and any other relief as the court may deem just and proper. On March 13, 2013, InterDigital filed an amended Delaware District Court complaint against Nokia and Samsung, respectively, to assert allegations of infringement of the recently issued 244 patent. On April 1, 2013, Nokia filed its answer and counterclaims to InterDigitals amended Delaware District Court complaint. On April 24, 2013, Samsung filed its answer and a counterclaim to InterDigitals amended Delaware District Court complaint. On March 21, 2013, pursuant to stipulation, the Delaware District Court granted InterDigital leave to file an amended complaint against Huawei and ZTE, respectively, to assert allegations of infringement of the 244 patent. On March 22, 2013, Huawei and ZTE filed their respective answers and counterclaims to InterDigitals amended Delaware District Court complaint. On April 9, 2013, InterDigital filed a motion to dismiss Huaweis and ZTEs counterclaims relating to their FRAND allegations. On April 22, 2013, InterDigital filed a motion to dismiss Nokias counterclaims relating to its FRAND allegations. On July 12, 2013, the Delaware District Court held a hearing on InterDigitals motions to dismiss. By order issued the same day, the Delaware District Court granted InterDigitals motions, dismissing counterclaims for equitable estoppel, implied license, waiver of the right to injunction or exclusionary relief, and violation of California Bus. & Prof. Code 17200 with prejudice. It further dismissed the counterclaims for breach of contract and declaratory relief related to InterDigitals FRAND commitments with leave to amend. On August 6, 2013, Huawei, Nokia, and ZTE filed answers and amended counterclaims for breach of contract and for declaratory judgments seeking determination of FRAND terms. The counterclaims also continue to seek declarations of noninfringement, invalidity, and unenforceability. Nokia also continued to assert a counterclaim for a declaration of patent misuse. On August 30, 2013, InterDigital filed a motion to dismiss the declaratory judgment counterclaims relating to the request for determination of FRAND terms. On May 28, 2014, the court granted InterDigitals motion and dismissed defendants FRAND-related declaratory judgment counterclaims, ruling that such declaratory judgments would serve no useful purpose. 29 Table of Contents On December 30, 2013, InterDigital and Huawei filed a stipulation of dismissal on account of the confidential settlement agreement and agreement to arbitrate their disputes in this action. On the same day, the Delaware District Court granted the stipulation of dismissal. On February 11, 2014, the Delaware District Court judge entered an InterDigital, Nokia, and ZTE stipulated Amended Scheduling Order that bifurcated issues relating to damages, FRAND-related affirmative defenses, and any FRAND-related counterclaims. On August 28, 2014, the court granted in part a motion by InterDigital for summary judgment that the asserted 151 patent is not unenforceable by reason of inequitable conduct, holding that only one of the references forming the basis of defendants allegations would remain in issue, and granted a motion by InterDigital for summary judgment that the asserted claims of the 966 and 847 patents are not invalid for lack of enablement. On August 5, 2014, InterDigital and Samsung filed a stipulation of dismissal in light of the parties settlement agreement. On the same day, the court granted the stipulation of dismissal and dismissed the action with prejudice. By order dated August 28, 2014, MMO was joined in the case as a defendant. The ZTE trial addressing infringement and validity of the 966, 847, 244 and 151 patents was held from October 20 to October 27, 2014. During the trial, the judge determined that further construction of certain claim language of the 151 patent was required, and the judge decided to hold another trial as to ZTE's infringement of the 151 patent at a later date. On October 28, 2014, the jury returned a unanimous verdict in favor of InterDigital, finding that the 966, 847 and 244 patents are all valid and infringed by ZTE 3G and 4G cellular devices. The court issued formal judgment to this effect on October 29, 2014. On November 26, 2014, ZTE filed a motion for judgment as a matter of law that the asserted claims of the 966, 847 and 244 patents are not infringed and, in the alternative, for a new trial. InterDigital filed an opposition on December 15, 2014, and ZTE filed a reply on January 7, 2015. The ZTE trial addressing infringement of the 151 patent was held from April 20 to April 22, 2015. On April 22, 2015, the jury returned a verdict in favor of ZTE, finding that the 151 patent is not infringed by ZTE 3G and 4G cellular devices. On April 23, 2015, InterDigital filed a motion to partially dismiss its complaint pertaining to the 151 patent against Nokia and MMO, as well as Nokia and MMOs counterclaims that relate to the 151 patent (including inequitable conduct), and on April 27, 2015, the judge granted the motion. On April 27, 2015, the court ruled that Nokia Corporation should be severed for a separate trial addressing infringement of the 244 patent. On May 5, 2015, the court scheduled the Nokia Inc./MMO jury trial addressing infringement of the 244 patent for November 16, 2015. On May 29, 2015, the court entered a new scheduling order for damages and FRAND-related issues due to changes in the schedule of the liability portion of the MMO proceedings, scheduling trials related to damages and FRAND-related issues for October 2016 with ZTE and November 2016 with MMO. On September 14, 2015, a panel of Administrative Law Judges of the United States Patent and Trademark Office Patent Trial and Appeal Board (the PTAB) issued a final written decision in two Inter Partes Review (IPR) cases concerning the 244 patent. These IPR proceedings were commenced on petitions filed by ZTE Corporation and ZTE (USA) Inc. and by Microsoft Corporation, respectively. Specifically, the panel determined that a number of claims of the 244 patent are unpatentable as obvious. IPR Licensing, Inc. appealed to the Federal Circuit seeking review of the PTABs decision. Oral argument in the appeal is scheduled for April 2017. The appeals are pending. On October 13, 2015, by stipulation of the parties, the Delaware District Court stayed the action involving MMO and Nokia Inc., including the November 2015 and November 2016 trials concerning infringement of the 244 patent and damages and FRAND-related issues, respectively, pending completion of the IPR proceedings, including all appeals and subsequent proceedings before the PTAB. This stay is with respect to MMO and Nokia Inc. only, and does not apply to the Delaware action pending against ZTE. On May 12, 2015, Nokia/MMO moved for summary judgment of non-infringement of the 244 patent, alleging that the accused devices do not practice a particular claim element of the 244 patent. On June 2, 2015, InterDigital opposed Nokia/MMOs motion, and filed a cross-motion for partial summary judgment that the accused devices infringe the claim element at issue in Nokia/MMOs motion for summary judgment. On October 13, 2015, the Delaware District Court denied the pending 30 Table of Contents summary judgment cross-motions without prejudice in light of the stay discussed above, indicating that the motions could be considered refiled if and when the stay is lifted if either party requests it. On December 21, 2015, the court entered another scheduling order that vacated the October 2016 date for the ZTE trial related to damages and FRAND-related issues as set forth in the May 2015 scheduling order. On March 18, 2016, the court denied ZTEs motion for judgment as a matter of law, or in the alternative for a new trial, with respect to the 966 and 847 patents. The court postponed its ruling on ZTEs motion as to the 244 patent pending the Federal Circuits decision on InterDigitals appeal of the September 14, 2015 PTAB ruling and administratively closed that portion of the motion. On April 8, 2016, the court set a new schedule for the FRAND/damages portion of the ZTE case with a target trial date in February 2018. On April 18, 2016, ZTE filed a stipulated request for dismissal with prejudice of its counterclaims for breach of contract and patent unenforceability based on FRAND and withdrew its corresponding FRAND-related affirmative defenses. The court granted this request the same day. Also on April 18, 2016, ZTE filed a motion under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(b) seeking certification of partial final judgment on the claims for infringement of the 966 and 847 patents to allow ZTE to file an immediate appeal as to those patents. The motion was granted on June 7, 2016, and a partial final judgment was entered on June 20, 2016. On July 18, 2016, ZTE filed its notice of appeal with the Federal Circuit regarding the Delaware District Courts judgment against ZTE with respect to the 966 and 847 patents. ZTEs appeal is pending. As a result, InterDigitals damages claims are currently effectively stayed pending the appeal. Nokia and ZTE 2011 USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800) and Related Delaware District Court Proceeding USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800) On July 26, 2011, InterDigitals wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Communications, LLC (now InterDigital Communications, Inc.), InterDigital Technology Corporation and IPR Licensing, Inc. filed a complaint with the USITC against Nokia Corporation and Nokia Inc., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and FutureWei Technologies, Inc. d/b/a Huawei Technologies (USA) and ZTE Corporation and ZTE (USA) Inc. (collectively, the 337-TA-800 Respondents), alleging violations of Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 in that they engaged in unfair trade practices by selling for importation into the United States, importing into the United States and/or selling after importation into the United States certain 3G wireless devices (including WCDMA- and cdma2000-capable mobile phones, USB sticks, mobile hotspots and tablets and components of such devices) that infringe several of InterDigitals U.S. patents. The action also extended to certain WCDMA and cdma2000 devices incorporating WiFi functionality. InterDigitals complaint with the USITC sought an exclusion order that would bar from entry into the United States any infringing 3G wireless devices (and components) that are imported by or on behalf of the 337-TA-800 Respondents, and also sought a cease-and-desist order to bar further sales of infringing products that have already been imported into the United States. In May 2012, Huawei Device USA, Inc. was added as a 337-TA-800 Respondent. The ALJ held an evidentiary hearing from February 12-21, 2013. The patents in issue as of the hearing were U.S. Patent Nos. 8,009,636 (the 636 patent), 7,706, 830 (the 830 patent), 7,502,406 (the 406 patent), 7,616,970 (the 970 patent), 7,706,332 (the 332 patent), 7,536,013 (the 013 patent) and 7,970,127 (the 127 patent). The ALJs Initial Determination (ID) issued on June 28, 2013, finding no violation because the asserted patents were not infringed and/or invalid. Among other determinations, with respect to the 337-TA-800 Respondents FRAND and other equitable defenses, the ALJ found that Respondents had failed to prove either that InterDigital violated any FRAND obligations, that InterDigital failed to negotiate in good faith, or that InterDigitals licensing offers were discriminatory. The ALJ also found that InterDigital is not precluded from seeking injunctive relief based on any alleged FRAND commitments. Petitions for review of the ID to the Commission were filed by InterDigital and the 337-TA-800 Respondents on July 15, 2013. On September 4, 2013, the Commission determined to review the ID in its entirety. On December 19, 2013, the Commission issued its final determination. The Commission adopted, with some modification, the ALJs finding of no violation of Section 337 as to Nokia, Huawei, and ZTE. The Commission did not rule on any other issue, including FRAND and domestic industry, and stated that all other issues remain under review. On December 20, 2013, InterDigital filed in the Federal Circuit a petition for review seeking reversal of the Commissions final determination. On February 18, 2015, the Federal Circuit issued a decision affirming the USITCs determinations that the claims of the 830, 636, 406 and 332 patents were not infringed, that the claims of the 970 patent are invalid, and that the Respondents did not violate Section 337. On April 6, 2015, InterDigital filed a combined petition for panel rehearing and rehearing e n banc as to the 830 and 636 patents. The petition was denied on May 12, 2015, and the courts mandate issued on May 19, 2015. 31 Table of Contents Related Delaware District Court Proceeding On July 26, 2011, the same date that InterDigital filed USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800), it filed a parallel action in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against the 337-TA-800 Respondents alleging infringement of the same asserted patents identified in USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800). The Delaware District Court complaint seeks a permanent injunction and compensatory damages in an amount to be determined, as well as enhanced damages based on willful infringement, and recovery of reasonable attorneys' fees and costs. On September 23, 2011, the defendants in the Delaware District Court complaint filed a motion to stay the Delaware District Court action pending the parallel proceedings in the USITC. Because the USITC has instituted USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800), the defendants have a statutory right to a mandatory stay of the Delaware District Court proceeding pending a final determination in the USITC. On October 3, 2011, InterDigital amended the Delaware District Court complaint, adding LG as a defendant and adding the same additional patent that InterDigital requested be added to USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800). On October 11, 2011, the Delaware District Court granted the defendants' motion to stay. The case is currently stayed through March 13, 2017. On January 14, 2014, InterDigital and Huawei filed a stipulation of dismissal of their disputes in this action on account of the confidential settlement agreement mentioned above. On the same day, the Delaware District Court granted the stipulation of dismissal. Nokia 2007 USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613), Related Delaware District Court Proceeding and Federal Circuit Appeal USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613) In August 2007, InterDigital filed a USITC complaint against Nokia Corporation and Nokia, Inc., alleging a violation of Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 in that Nokia engaged in an unfair trade practice by selling for importation into the United States, importing into the United States and/or selling after importation into the United States certain 3G mobile handsets and components that infringe two of InterDigitals patents. In November and December 2007, respectively, a third patent and a fourth patent were added to the Companys complaint against Nokia. The complaint sought an exclusion order barring from entry into the United States infringing 3G mobile handsets and components that are imported by or on behalf of Nokia. InterDigitals complaint also sought a cease-and-desist order to bar further sales of infringing Nokia products that have already been imported into the United States. On August 14, 2009, the ALJ overseeing USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613) issued an Initial Determination finding no violation of Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930. The Initial Determination found that InterDigitals patents were valid and enforceable, but that Nokia did not infringe these patents. In the event that a Section 337 violation were to be found by the Commission, the ALJ recommended the issuance of a limited exclusion order barring entry into the United States of infringing Nokia 3G WCDMA handsets and components, as well as the issuance of appropriate cease-and-desist orders. On October 16, 2009, the Commission issued a notice that it had determined to review in part the Initial Determination, and that it affirmed the ALJs determination of no violation and terminated the investigation. The Commission determined to review the claim construction of the patent claim terms synchronize and access signal and also determined to review the ALJs validity determinations. On review, the Commission modified the ALJs claim construction of access signal and took no position with regard to the claim term synchronize or the validity determinations. The Commission determined not to review the remaining issues decided in the Initial Determination. On November 30, 2009, InterDigital filed with the Federal Circuit a petition for review of certain rulings by the USITC. In its appeal, InterDigital sought reversal of the Commissions claim constructions and non-infringement findings with respect to certain claim terms in the 966 and 847 patents, vacatur of the Commissions determination of no Section 337 violation and a remand for further proceedings before the Commission. On August 1, 2012, the Federal Circuit issued its decision in the appeal, holding that the Commission had erred in interpreting the claim terms at issue and reversing the Commissions finding of non-infringement. The Federal Circuit adopted InterDigitals interpretation of such claim terms and remanded the case back to the Commission for further proceedings. In addition, the Federal Circuit rejected Nokias argument that InterDigital did not satisfy the domestic industry requirement. On September 17, 2012, Nokia filed a combined petition for rehearing by the panel or en banc with the Federal Circuit. On January 10, 2013, the Federal Circuit denied Nokias petition. On January 17, 2013, the Federal Circuit issued its mandate remanding USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613) to the Commission for further proceedings. On February 12, 2014, the Commission issued a notice, order and opinion remanding the investigation to an ALJ. In doing so, the Commission determined certain issues and identified others that would be subject to further proceedings by the ALJ. The Commission assigned the investigation to an ALJ for limited remand proceedings consistent with its February 12, 2014 opinion. 32 Table of Contents In June 2014, MMO was added as a respondent in the investigation. The evidentiary hearing in the remand proceeding was held January 26 - 28, 2015. On April 27, 2015, the ALJ issued his Remand Initial Determination (RID). The ALJ found that the imported accused handsets (1) contain chips that were not previously adjudicated and (2) infringe the asserted claims of the 966 and 847 patents, that there was no evidence of patent hold-up by InterDigital, that there is evidence of reverse hold-up by the respondents, and that the public interest does not preclude issuance of an exclusion order. On May 11, 2015, Nokia Corporation and MMO each filed petitions to the Commission to review the RID. On June 25, 2015, the Commission issued a notice of its decision to review the RID in part. The Commission determined to review the RIDs findings concerning the application of the Commissions prior construction of one claim limitation in Investigation Nos. 337-TA-800 and 337-TA-868, the RIDs findings as to whether the accused products satisfy that claim limitation, and the RIDs public interest findings. The Commission issued its final determination on August 28, 2015, finding that issue preclusion applied with respect to the construction of the claim limitations at issue, and issue preclusion also required a finding of non-infringement. The Commission determined there was no violation of Section 337 and terminated the 337-TA-613 investigation. The Commission found that consideration of the public interest issues was moot and did not address them. Related Delaware District Court Proceeding In addition, in August 2007, on the same date as the filing of USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613), InterDigital also filed a complaint in the Delaware District Court alleging that Nokias 3G mobile handsets and components infringe the same two InterDigital patents identified in the original USITC complaint. The complaint seeks a permanent injunction and damages in an amount to be determined. This Delaware action was stayed on January 10, 2008, pursuant to the mandatory, statutory stay of parallel district court proceedings at the request of a respondent in a USITC investigation. The Delaware District Court permitted InterDigital to add to the stayed Delaware action the third and fourth patents InterDigital asserted against Nokia in the USITC action. This case remains stayed. OTHER We are party to certain other disputes and legal actions in the ordinary course of business, including arbitrations and legal proceedings with licensees regarding the terms of their agreements and the negotiation thereof. We do not currently believe that these matters, even if adversely adjudicated or settled, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. None of the above matters have met the requirements for accrual or disclosure of a potential range as of December 31, 2016. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. Not applicable. 33 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Market Information The NASDAQ Stock Market (NASDAQ) is the principal market for our common stock, which is traded under the symbol "IDCC." The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock for each quarterly period in 2016 and 2015 , as reported by NASDAQ. 2016 High Low First quarter $ 55.85 $ 41.01 Second quarter 59.83 51.97 Third quarter 79.92 52.33 Fourth quarter 98.00 68.10 2015 High Low First quarter $ 56.27 $ 47.76 Second quarter 60.69 49.57 Third quarter 57.77 44.28 Fourth quarter 54.95 46.78 Holders As of February 21, 2017, there were 585 holders of record of our common stock. Dividends Cash dividends on outstanding common stock declared in 2016 and 2015 were as follows (in thousands, except per share data): 2016 Per Share Total Cumulative by Fiscal Year First quarter $ 0.20 $ 6,923 $ 6,923 Second quarter 0.20 6,861 13,784 Third quarter 0.30 10,285 24,069 Fourth quarter 0.30 10,290 34,359 $ 1.00 $ 34,359 2015 First quarter $ 0.20 $ 7,232 $ 7,232 Second quarter 0.20 7,243 14,475 Third quarter 0.20 7,183 21,658 Fourth quarter 0.20 7,068 28,726 $ 0.80 $ 28,726 In September 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved an increase in the Companys quarterly cash dividend to $0.30 per share. We currently expect to continue to pay dividends comparable to our quarterly $0.30 per share cash dividend in the future; however, continued payment of cash dividends and changes in the Company's dividend policy will depend on the Company's earnings, financial condition, capital resources and capital requirements, alternative uses of capital, restrictions imposed by any existing debt, economic conditions and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. 34 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph compares five-year cumulative total returns of the Company, the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Telecommunications Stock Index. The graph assumes $100 was invested in the common stock of InterDigital and each index as of December 31, 2011 and that all dividends were re-invested. Such returns are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance. COMPARISON OF 5-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN among InterDigital, Inc., the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Telecommunications Index 12/11 12/12 12/13 12/14 12/15 12/16 InterDigital, Inc. 100.00 98.71 71.38 130.08 122.45 231.65 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 116.41 165.47 188.69 200.32 216.54 NASDAQ Telecommunications 100.00 102.78 143.40 149.42 144.02 153.88 The above performance graph shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference into any filing of InterDigital under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Repurchase of Common Stock The Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock during fourth quarter 2016. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. The following data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements, related Notes and other financial information contained in this Form 10-K. 35 Table of Contents 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (in thousands except per share data) Consolidated statements of operations data: Revenues (a) $ 665,854 $ 441,435 $ 415,821 $ 325,361 $ 663,063 Income from operations (b) $ 437,306 $ 208,549 $ 168,960 $ 84,756 $ 419,030 Income tax provision (c) $ (116,791 ) $ (64,621 ) $ (52,108 ) $ (25,836 ) $ (136,830 ) Net income applicable to InterDigital, Inc. common shareholders $ 309,001 $ 119,225 $ 104,342 $ 38,165 $ 271,804 Net income per common share basic $ 8.95 $ 3.31 $ 2.65 $ 0.93 $ 6.31 Net income per common share diluted $ 8.78 $ 3.27 $ 2.62 $ 0.92 $ 6.26 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding basic 34,526 36,048 39,420 41,115 43,070 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding diluted 35,189 36,463 39,879 41,424 43,396 Cash dividends declared per common share (d) $ 1.00 $ 0.80 $ 0.70 $ 0.40 $ 1.90 Consolidated balance sheets data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 404,074 $ 510,207 $ 428,567 $ 497,714 $ 349,843 Short-term investments 548,687 423,501 275,361 200,737 227,436 Working capital 795,639 610,994 582,688 703,576 603,134 Total assets 1,727,853 1,474,485 1,192,962 1,110,251 1,052,374 Total debt 272,021 486,769 216,206 205,881 196,156 Total InterDigital, Inc. shareholders equity 739,709 510,519 468,328 528,650 518,705 Noncontrolling interest 14,659 11,376 7,349 5,170 Total shareholders equity $ 754,368 $ 521,895 $ 475,677 $ 533,820 $ 518,705 (a) In 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our revenues included $309.7 million, $65.8 million, $125.0 million and $127.0 million of past sales, respectively. In 2012, our revenues included $384.0 million associated with patent sales. (b) Our income from operations in 2016 included $2.3 million of severance charges related to ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure. We incurred charges of $1.5 million and $12.5 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively, associated with actions to reposition the companys operations. (c) In 2016, our income tax provision included the impact of a $23.6 million net tax benefit primarily related to domestic activity production deductions for prior years. In 2014, our income tax provision included the impact of a $4.2 million net tax benefit, primarily attributable to available U.S. federal research and development tax credits for prior years, which was partially offset by an audit settlement. In 2012, our income tax provision included a tax benefit of $6.7 million related to the release of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, which we now expect to utilize. (d) In September 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved an increase in the Companys quarterly cash dividend to $0.30 per share. In June 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a 100% increase in the Company's quarterly cash dividend, to $0.20 per share. On December 5, 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a special cash dividend of $1.50 per share on InterDigital common stock. The special cash dividend was payable on December 28, 2012 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 17, 2012. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OVERVIEW The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Selected Financial Data, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto contained in this Form 10-K. Throughout the following discussion and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we refer to recurring revenues and past sales. Recurring revenues are comprised of current patent royalties and current technology solutions revenue. Past sales are comprised of past patent royalties and past technology solutions revenue. Business 36 Table of Contents InterDigital designs and develops advanced technologies that enable and enhance wireless communications and capabilities. Since our founding in 1972, our engineers have designed and developed a wide range of innovations that are used in digital cellular and wireless products and networks, including 2G, 3G, 4G and IEEE 802-related products and networks. We are a leading contributor of innovation to the wireless communications industry. Given our long history and focus on advanced research and development, InterDigital has one of the most significant patent portfolios in the wireless industry. As of December 31, 2016, InterDigital's wholly owned subsidiaries held a portfolio of approximately 20,000 patents and patent applications related to a range of technologies including the fundamental technologies that enable wireless communications. In that portfolio are a number of patents and patent applications that we believe are or may be essential or may become essential to cellular and other wireless standards, including 3G, 4G and the IEEE 802 suite of standards, as well as patents and patent applications that we believe may become essential to 5G standards that are under development. That portfolio has largely been built through internal development, supplemented by joint development projects with other companies as well as select acquisitions of patents and companies. Products incorporating our patented inventions include: mobile devices, such as cellular phones, tablets, notebook computers and wireless personal digital assistants; wireless infrastructure equipment, such as base stations; components, dongles and modules for wireless devices; and IoT devices and software platforms. InterDigital derives revenues primarily from patent licensing, with contributions from patent sales, product sales, technology solutions licensing and sales and engineering services. In 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , our total revenues were $665.9 million , $441.4 million and $415.8 million , respectively. Our recurring revenues in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 were $356.2 million , $372.8 million and $288.8 million , respectively. In 2016 , the amortization of fixed-fee royalty payments accounted for approximately 50% of our recurring revenues. These fixed-fee revenues are not affected by the related licensees success in the market or the general economic climate. The majority of the remaining portion of our recurring revenue is variable in nature due to the per-unit structure of the related license agreements. Approximately 84% of this per-unit, variable portion for 2016 related to sales by our collection of Taiwanese licensees, the majority of which revenue was derived from the sale of Apple products. With the entry into the Apple PLA in fourth quarter 2016, as discussed below, we will no longer receive royalties under the 2008 Pegatron PLA for those products that Pegatron produces for Apple which are sold to or for Apple during the term of the Apple PLA. In 2016, we recognized $133.3 million of revenue under the 2008 Pegatron PLA, substantially all of which was associated with sales of Apple products. As a result of our entry into fixed-fee patent license agreements with Huawei and Apple during 2016, we expect that fixed-fee royalties will be a larger percentage of our recurring revenue in 2017. Fixed-fee royalties accounted for approximately 79% of recurring revenue in fourth quarter 2016. Revenue Recurring revenue in 2016 of $356.2 million decreased 4% from the prior year. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in revenue derived from Apple products as well as a decrease in per-unit royalty revenue resulting from decreased shipments by some of the company's Taiwan-based licensees. During 2016, we recognized $309.7 million of past sales revenue, primarily attributable to the new patent license agreements with Apple and Huawei discussed below, as compared to $68.7 million of past sales recognized in 2015. Refer to " Results of Operations -- 2016 Compared with 2015 " for further discussion of our 2016 revenue. New Agreements During third quarter 2016, we entered into a multi-year, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-bearing patent license agreement with Huawei. The agreement covers sales of Huawei and its affiliates' 3G and 4G terminal unit products and sets forth cash payments to InterDigital and a process for the transfer of patents from Huawei to InterDigital. In addition, the companies have agreed to a framework for discussions regarding joint research and development efforts. As a result of the agreement, the companies settled all proceedings related to their arbitration initiated in 2014. Our agreement with Huawei is a multiple-element arrangement for accounting purposes. We recognized $154.8 million of revenue under this patent license agreement during 2016, including $121.5 million of past sales. We will recognize future revenue under the agreement on a straight-line basis over its term. A portion of the consideration for the agreement was in the form of patents from Huawei. We have received half of the patents as of December 31, 2016, and we will receive the remaining patents by June 30, 2017. Of the $154.8 million of revenue recognized under the agreement to date, 95% related to cash receipts and 5% related to the patents transferred to date. We have deferred recognition of revenue related to the patents yet to be transferred, as their value will not be determinable until the completion of the transfer process. At the completion of the transfer process, we expect to recognize additional past sales and current patent royalties associated with these patents. Refer to Note 2, " Summary of Significant Accounting Policies ," for additional information related to the estimates and methods used to determine the fair value of the patents acquired. 37 Table of Contents During fourth quarter 2016, we entered into a multi-year, royalty-bearing, worldwide and non-exclusive license agreement with Apple. The agreement sets forth terms covering the sale by Apple of its products and services, including, but not limited to, its 3G, 4G and future generation cellular and wireless-enabled products. The agreement gives Apple the right to terminate certain rights and obligations under the license for the period after September 30, 2021, but has the potential to provide a license to Apple for a total of up to six years. Our agreement with Apple is a multiple-element arrangement for accounting purposes. We recognized $169.3 million of revenue under this patent license agreement during 2016, including $141.4 million of past sales. We will recognize future revenue under the agreement on a straight-line basis over its term. Consistent with the revenue recognition policy disclosed in Note 2, " Summary of Significant Accounting Policies ," we identified each element of each arrangement, estimated its relative value for purposes of allocating the arrangement consideration and determined when each of those elements should be recognized. Using the accounting guidance applicable to multiple-element revenue arrangements, we allocated the consideration to each element for accounting purposes using our best estimate of the term and value of each element. The development of a number of these inputs and assumptions in the models requires a significant amount of management judgment and is based upon a number of factors, including the assumed royalty rates, sales volumes, discount rate and other relevant factors. Changes in any of a number of these assumptions could have had a substantial impact on the relative fair value assigned to each element for accounting purposes. These inputs and assumptions represent management's best estimates at the time of the transactions. Acquisition of Hillcrest Labs On December 20, 2016, we acquired Hillcrest Laboratories, Inc. ("Hillcrest Labs"), a pioneer in sensor processing technology, for approximately $48.0 million in cash, net of $0.4 million cash acquired. Sensor processing and sensor fusion is an important emerging technology area, with multiple applications in IoT, augmented and virtual reality, robotics, and other areas. Hillcrest Labs strong product and technology offerings and intellectual property portfolio reflect their pioneering position in this technology segment. Refer to Note 15, " Business Combinations," for more information regarding this transaction. Expiration of Patent License Agreements Our patent license agreements with a number of licensees expired during 2016. Collectively, these agreements accounted for $19.4 million , or approximately 3%, of our total revenue in 2016. Individually, none of these agreements accounted for more than 2% of our total revenue in 2016. A portion of our first quarter 2017 revenues will be comprised of royalties from these licensees due to the timing of when we receive royalty reports, as described in Note 2, " Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, " in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our patent license agreements with two licensees are scheduled to expire in whole or in part during 2017. Collectively, these agreements accounted for $17.7 million, or approximately 3%, of our total revenue in 2016. One of these agreements has a non-refundable prepaid balance of $71.6 million, which is included in short-term deferred revenue, as of December 31, 2016. In the event this agreement is not renewed or amended during 2017, we will recognize any portion of the prepaid balance remaining at year-end as revenue in fourth quarter 2017 in connection with the scheduled expiration of the agreement. In addition, our patent license agreement with Samsung provides Samsung the ability to terminate certain rights and obligations under the license for the period after 2017, but has the potential to provide a license to Samsung for a total of ten years, beginning with and including 2013. Samsung accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenues in 2016. If we determine it is probable that Samsung will terminate the agreement, we will increase the revenue recognition from Samsung to amortize the additional benefits we would receive from Samsung over the remaining portion of the initial term. Cash and Short-Term Investments At December 31, 2016 , we had $952.8 million of cash and short-term investments and up to an additional $1.1 billion of payments due under signed agreements, including $228.5 million recorded in accounts receivable that is due within twelve months of the balance sheet date. A substantial portion of our cash and short-term investments relates to fixed and prepaid royalty payments we have received that relate to future sales of our licensees products. As a result, our future cash receipts from existing licenses subject to fixed and prepaid royalties will be lower than if the royalty payments were structured to coincide with the underlying sales. During 2016 , we recorded $719.9 million of cash receipts related to patent licensing and technology solutions agreements as follows (in thousands): 38 Table of Contents Cash In Current royalties $ 158,899 Fixed-fee royalty payments 231,562 Past per-unit patent royalties 66,949 Prepaid royalties 3,546 Technology solutions 5,300 Past fixed royalty payments 253,683 $ 719,939 Approximately $439.3 million of our $621.2 million deferred revenue balance relates to fixed-fee royalty payments that are scheduled to amortize as follows (in thousands): 2017 $ 285,478 2018 149,937 2019 1,392 2020 1,392 2021 534 Thereafter 534 $ 439,267 The remaining $181.9 million of deferred revenue primarily relates to prepaid royalties that will be recorded as revenue as our licensees report their sales of covered products or at the conclusion of the related license agreement. Repurchase of Common Stock In June 2014, our Board of Directors authorized a $300 million share repurchase program (the 2014 Repurchase Program), and in June 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a $100 million increase to the 2014 Repurchase Program, bringing the total amount of the program to $400 million. The Company may repurchase shares under the 2014 Repurchase Program through open market purchases, pre-arranged trading plans or privately negotiated purchases. The table below sets forth the number of shares repurchased and the dollar value of shares repurchased under the 2014 Repurchase Program during 2016, 2015 and 2014, in thousands. 2014 Repurchase Program # of Shares Value 2016 1,304 $ 64,685 2015 1,836 96,410 2014 3,554 152,625 Total 6,694 $ 313,720 Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement If we believe a party is required to license our patents in order to manufacture, use and/or sell certain products and such party refuses to do so, we may agree with such party to have royalty rates, or other terms, set by third party adjudicators (such as arbitrators) or, in certain circumstances, we may institute legal action against them to enforce our patent rights. This legal action has typically taken the form of a patent infringement lawsuit or an administrative proceeding. In addition, we and our licensees, in the normal course of business, might seek to resolve disagreements as to the rights and obligations of the parties under the applicable license agreement through arbitration or litigation. In 2016 , our intellectual property enforcement costs decreased to $16.5 million from $31.8 million and $52.1 million in 2015 and 2014 , respectively. These costs represented 15% of our 2016 total patent administration and licensing costs of 39 Table of Contents $113.5 million . Intellectual property enforcement costs will vary depending upon activity levels, and it is likely they will continue to be a significant expense for us in the future. Comparability of Financial Results When comparing 2016 financial results against the financial results of other periods, the following items should be taken into consideration: Our 2016 revenue includes: $309.7 million of past sales primarily related to the new patent license agreements. Our 2016 operating expenses include: $2.3 million severance charge primarily related to ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure; and $13.7 million of expense to increase accrual rates for some of our incentive compensation plans. Our 2016 other expense, net includes: a $3.4 million gain related to the sale of our King of Prussia facility. Our 2016 income tax provision includes: a $23.6 million discrete net benefit related to tax refunds expected on amended returns associated with deductions for certain domestic production activities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are based on the selection and application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in both our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results could differ from these estimates and any such differences may be material to the financial statements. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and are included in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K. We believe the accounting policies that are of particular importance to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and that may involve a higher degree of complexity and judgment in their application compared to others are those relating to revenue recognition, compensation and income taxes. If different assumptions were made or different conditions existed, our financial results could have been materially different. Revenue Recognition We derive the vast majority of our revenue from patent licensing. The timing and amount of revenue recognized from each licensee depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each agreement and the nature of the deliverables and obligations. Such agreements are often complex and include multiple elements. These agreements can include, without limitation, elements related to the settlement of past patent infringement liabilities, up-front and non-refundable license fees for the use of patents and/or know-how, patent and/or know-how licensing royalties on covered products sold by licensees, cross-licensing terms between us and other parties, the compensation structure and ownership of intellectual property rights associated with contractual technology development arrangements, advanced payments and fees for service arrangements and settlement of intellectual property enforcement. For agreements entered into or materially modified prior to 2011, due to the inherent difficulty in establishing reliable, verifiable, and objectively determinable evidence of the fair value of the separate elements of these agreements, the total revenue resulting from such agreements has often been recognized over the performance period. Since January 2011, all new or materially modified agreements have been accounted for under the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") revenue recognition guidance, "Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables." This guidance requires consideration to be allocated to each element of an agreement that has standalone value using the relative fair value method. In other circumstances, such as those agreements involving consideration for past and expected future patent royalty obligations, after consideration of the particular facts and circumstances, the appropriate recording of revenue between periods may require the use of judgment. In all cases, revenue is only recognized after all of the following criteria are met: (1) written agreements have been executed; (2) delivery of technology or intellectual property rights has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) fees are fixed or determinable; and (4) collectibility of fees is reasonably assured. We establish a receivable for payments expected to be received within twelve months from the balance sheet date based on the terms in the license. Our reporting of such payments often results in an increase to both accounts receivable and 40 Table of Contents deferred revenue. Deferred revenue associated with fixed-fee royalty payments is classified on the balance sheet as short-term when it is scheduled to be amortized within twelve months from the balance sheet date. All other deferred revenue is classified as long-term, as amounts to be recognized over the next twelve months are not known. As discussed in more detail below under New Accounting Guidance, " the FASB issued guidance on revenue from contracts with customers that will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance, and will be effective for the Company in 2018. Under the new standard, the Company may be required to recognize up to a substantial majority of the royalties under a fixed-fee license agreement upfront upon entry into the agreement, as opposed to recognizing the royalties on a quarterly basis over the term of the agreement, which has been the historical practice of many licensing companies, including InterDigital. For InterDigital, this could impact the revenue recognition of all of its existing fixed-fee patent license agreements, including certain fixed-fee agreements that cover both our current technologies and future technologies that are added to our portfolio during the term of the license, such as our patent license agreements with Apple and Samsung. In addition, our current practice, which is shared by many licensing companies and discussed in further detail in Note 2, " Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," of reporting revenues from per-unit royalty-based agreements one quarter in arrears would no longer be accepted, and instead we will be expected to estimate royalty-based revenues each quarter. Upon adoption of the new guidance, we will update our revenue recognition policies accordingly. Patent License Agreements Upon signing a patent license agreement, we provide the licensee permission to use our patented inventions in specific applications. We account for patent license agreements in accordance with the guidance for revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. We have elected to utilize the leased-based model for revenue recognition, with revenue being recognized over the expected period of benefit to the licensee. Under our patent license agreements, we typically receive one or a combination of the following forms of payment as consideration for permitting our licensees to use our patented inventions in their applications and products: Consideration for Past Patent Royalties: Consideration related to a licensees product sales from prior periods may result from a negotiated agreement with a licensee that utilized our patented inventions prior to signing a patent license agreement with us or from the resolution of a disagreement or arbitration with a licensee over the specific terms of an existing license agreement. We may also receive consideration for past patent royalties in connection with the settlement of patent litigation where there was no prior patent license agreement. In each of these cases, we record the consideration as revenue when we have obtained a signed agreement, identified a fixed or determinable price and determined that collectibility is reasonably assured. Fixed-Fee Royalty Payments: These are up-front, non-refundable royalty payments that fulfill the licensees obligations to us under a patent license agreement for a specified time period or for the term of the agreement for specified products, under certain patents or patent claims, for sales in certain countries, or a combination thereof in each case for a specified time period (including for the life of the patents licensed under the agreement). We recognize revenues related to Fixed-Fee Royalty Payments on a straight-line basis over the effective term of the license. We utilize the straight-line method because we cannot reliably predict in which periods, within the term of a license, the licensee will benefit from the use of our patented inventions. Prepayments: These are up-front, non-refundable royalty payments towards a licensees future obligations to us related to its expected sales of covered products in future periods. Our licensees obligations to pay royalties typically extend beyond the exhaustion of their Prepayment balance. Once a licensee exhausts its Prepayment balance, we may provide them with the opportunity to make another Prepayment toward future sales or it will be required to make Current Royalty Payments. Current Royalty Payments: These are royalty payments covering a licensees obligations to us related to its sales of covered products in the current contractual reporting period. Licensees that either owe us Current Royalty Payments or have Prepayment balances are obligated to provide us with quarterly royalty reports that summarize their sales of covered products and their related royalty obligations to us. We typically receive these royalty reports subsequent to the period in which our licensees underlying sales occurred. As a result, it is impractical for us to recognize revenue in the period in which the underlying sales occur, and, in most cases, we recognize revenue in the period in which the royalty report is received and other revenue recognition criteria are met due to the fact that without royalty reports from our licensees, our visibility into our licensees sales is very limited. When a licensee is required to gross-up their royalty payment to cover applicable foreign withholding tax requirements, the additional consideration is recorded as revenue. The exhaustion of Prepayments and Current Royalty Payments are often calculated based on related per-unit sales of covered products. From time to time, licensees will not report revenues in the proper period, most often due to legal disputes. When this occurs, the timing and comparability of royalty revenue could be affected. In cases where we receive objective, 41 Table of Contents verifiable evidence that a licensee has discontinued sales of products covered under a patent license agreement with us, we recognize any related deferred revenue balance in the period that we receive such evidence. Patent Sales During 2012, we expanded our business strategy of monetizing our intellectual property to include the sale of select patent assets. As patent sales executed under this strategy represent a component of our ongoing major or central operations and activities, we will record the related proceeds as revenue. We will recognize the revenue when there is persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement, fees are fixed or determinable, delivery has occurred and collectibility is reasonably assured. These requirements are generally fulfilled upon closing of the patent sale transaction. Technology Solutions Technology solutions revenue consists primarily of revenue from royalty payments. We recognize revenue from royalty payments using the same methods described above under our policy for recognizing revenue from patent license agreements. Technology solutions revenues also consist of revenues from software licenses, engineering services and product sales. Software license revenues are recognized in accordance with the original and revised guidance for software revenue recognition. When the arrangement with a customer includes significant production, modification, or customization of the software, we recognize the related revenue using the percentage-of-completion method in accordance with the accounting guidance for construction-type and certain production-type contracts. Under this method, revenue and profit are recognized throughout the term of the contract, based on actual labor costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs related to the contract. Changes in estimates for revenues, costs and profits are recognized in the period in which they are determinable. When such estimates indicate that costs will exceed future revenues and a loss on the contract exists, a provision for the entire loss is recognized at that time. We recognize revenues associated with engineering service arrangements that are outside the scope of the accounting guidance for construction-type and certain production-type contracts on a straight-line basis, unless evidence suggests that the revenue is earned in a different pattern, over the contractual term of the arrangement or the expected period during which those specified services will be performed, whichever is longer. In such cases we often recognize revenue using proportional performance and measure the progress of our performance based on the relationship between incurred labor hours and total estimated labor hours or other measures of progress, if available. Our most significant cost has been labor and we believe both labor hours and labor cost provide a measure of the progress of our services. The effect of changes to total estimated contract costs is recognized in the period in which such changes are determined. We recognize revenues associated with product sales in the period in which the sales of the underlying units occur. Multiple Element Arrangements During 2016, we signed three agreements that were considered multiple-element arrangements for accounting purposes. In accordance with our revenue recognition policy, we identified each element of the arrangement, estimated its relative fair value for purposes of allocating the arrangement consideration and determined when each of those elements should be recognized. Using the accounting guidance applicable to multiple-element revenue arrangements, we allocated the consideration to each element for accounting purposes using our best estimate of the term and value of each element. The development of a number of these inputs and assumptions in the model requires a significant amount of management judgment and is based upon a number of factors, including the assumed royalty rates, sales volumes, discount rate and other relevant factors. Changes in any of a number of these assumptions could have had a substantial impact on the relative fair value assigned to each element for accounting purposes. These inputs and assumptions represent management's best estimates at the time of the transactions. The impact that a five percent change in the aggregate amount allocated to past patent royalties under these three agreements would have had on 2016 revenue is summarized in the following table (in thousands): Change in amount allocated Allocation to past patent royalties +5% -%5 Change in Revenue $ 44,771 $ (44,771 ) Revenue from Non-financial Sources During 2016, 2015, and 2014, our patent licensing royalties were derived from patent license agreements ("PLAs") with 27, 24, and 25 independent licensees, respectively. We recognized revenue from five, four and two PLAs in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, for which patents comprised less than one-third of the total consideration paid or due to us under those 42 Table of Contents agreements. In addition, during 2016, 2015 and 2014 we recognized revenue from one PLA that was executed in 2014 in connection with a patent purchase agreement ("PPA") with the licensee. Total cash paid to our licensee under this PPA is approximately 56% of the total cash due to us under this licensee's PLA. During 2016, 2015, and 2014, approximately 3%, 5%, and 7%, respectively, of our total revenue was based on the estimated fair value of the patents in the above transactions. We estimated the fair value of the patents in the above transactions by a combination of a discounted cash flow analysis (the income approach) and an analysis of comparable market transactions (the market approach). For the income approach, the inputs and assumptions used to develop these estimates were based on a market participant perspective and included estimates of projected royalties, discount rates, economic lives and income tax rates, among others. For the market approach, judgment was applied as to which market transactions were most comparable to this transaction. The development of a number of these inputs and assumptions requires a significant amount of management judgment and is based upon a number of factors, including the selection of industry comparables, assumed royalty rates, sales volumes, economic lives of the patents and other relevant factors. Changes in any of a number of these assumptions could have had a substantial impact on the fair value assigned to the patents for accounting purposes. These inputs and assumptions represent management's best estimates at the time of the transaction. The impact that a five percent change in the estimated aggregate value of the patents acquired would have had on 2016 revenue, patent amortization and pre-tax income is summarized in the following table (in thousands): Change in estimate Estimated value of patents acquired in connection with PLAs +5% -%5 Revenue $ 702 $ (702 ) Less: Patent amortization 474 (474 ) Pre-tax income $ 228 $ (228 ) Compensation Programs We use a variety of compensation programs to both attract and retain employees, and to more closely align employee compensation with company performance. These programs include, but are not limited to, short-term incentive awards tied to performance goals and cash awards to inventors for filed patent applications and patent issuances, as well as stock option awards, time-based restricted stock unit (RSU) awards and performance-based awards under our long-term compensation program ("LTCP"). Our LTCP typically includes annual grants with a three-year vesting period; as a result, in any one year, we are typically accounting for three active LTCP cycles. The aggregate amount of performance compensation expense we record in a period, under both short-term and long-term performance compensation programs, requires the input of subjective assumptions and is a function of our estimated progress toward performance compensation goals at the beginning of the period, and our estimated progress or final assessment of progress toward performance compensation goals at the end of the period. Our estimated progress toward goals under performance equity grants is based on meeting a minimum confidence level in accordance with accounting rules for share-based compensation. Achievement rates can vary by performance cycle and from period to period, resulting in variability in our compensation expense. If we had accrued all performance compensation cost throughout 2016 on the assumption that all plans and active cycles thereunder would be paid out at 100%, we would have recorded $16.8 million less in compensation expense in 2016 than we actually recorded. There are three LTCP cycles the vesting period for which will continue into 2017. If we were to record the performance-based incentive components of these three cycles at current accrual rates during 2017, we estimate that we would record $6.5 million in performance-based incentive compensation for those cycles in 2017. We account for compensation costs associated with share-based transactions based on the fair value of the instruments issued, net of any estimated award forfeitures. This requires us to make subjective assumptions around the value of the equity at the time of issuance and the expected forfeiture rates, which in both cases are generally based on historical experience. The estimated value of stock options includes assumptions around expected life, stock volatility and dividends. The expected life of our stock option awards are based on the simplified method as prescribed by Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 14. In all periods, our policy has been to set the value of RSUs and restricted stock awards equal to the value of our underlying common stock on the date of measurement. For grants with graded vesting, we amortize the associated unrecognized compensation cost using an accelerated method. For grants that cliff vest, we amortize the associated unrecognized compensation cost on a straight-line basis over their vesting term. In 2006, we adopted the short-cut method to establish the historical additional paid-in-capital pool (APIC Pool) related to the tax effects of employee share-based compensation. Any positive balance would be available to absorb tax shortfalls (which occur when the tax deductions resulting from share-based compensation are less than the related book expense) recognized subsequent to the adoption of the stock-based compensation guidance. 43 Table of Contents As described in Note 2, " Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, " certain elements of our accounting for compensation costs associated with share-based transactions will change upon adoption of ASC 2016-09. We will no longer account for these costs net of estimated award forfeitures. Instead, we will adjust compensation expense recognized to date in the event of canceled awards as they occur. Additionally, tax windfalls and shortfalls related to the tax effects of employee share-based compensation will no longer reside within additional paid-in-capital. Rather, these windfalls and shortfalls will be included in our tax provision. We will also adjust our disclosures included within our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Tax windfalls and shortfalls related to employee share-based compensation awards will be included within operating activities and cash paid to tax authorities for shares withheld will be included within financing activities. Although these changes will have no impact on the amount of share-based compensation expense we ultimately recognize, the inclusion of windfalls and shortfalls in the tax provision could increase our earnings volatility between periods. The below table summarizes our performance-based and other share-based compensation expense for 2016, 2015 and 2014, in thousands: 2016 2015 2014 Short-term incentive compensation $ 20,516 $ 19,098 $ 20,404 Time-based awards (a) 7,847 7,874 6,734 Performance-based awards (a) (b) 12,812 5,340 8,947 Other share-based compensation 1,899 2,090 2,814 Total performance-based and other share-based compensation expense $ 43,074 $ 34,402 $ 38,899 (a) For both 2016 and 2015, less than 2% of the aggregate expense associated with time-based and performance-based awards related to cash awards. All expense for 2014 relates to equity awards. (b) Includes a charge of $3.0 million , $1.1 million and $4.8 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, to increase the accrual rates under our LTCP driven by the Company's success toward achieving goals for the related cycles. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income in the period in which the change was enacted. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets if management has determined that it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized. In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. We are subject to examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing jurisdictions on various tax matters, including challenges to various positions we assert in our filings. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. The financial statement recognition of the benefit for a tax position is dependent upon the benefit being more likely than not to be sustainable upon audit by the applicable tax authority. If this threshold is met, the tax benefit is then measured and recognized at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Between 2006 and 2016, we paid approximately $375.0 million in foreign taxes for which we have claimed foreign tax credits against our U.S. tax obligations. Of this amount, $236.1 million relates to taxes paid to foreign governments that have tax treaties with the U.S. It is possible that as a result of tax treaty procedures, the U.S. government may reach an agreement with the related foreign governments that will result in a partial refund of foreign taxes paid with a related reduction in our foreign tax credits. Due to both foreign currency fluctuations and differences in the interest rate charged by the U.S. government compared to the interest rates, if any, used by the foreign governments, any such agreement could result in net interest expense and/or foreign currency gain or loss. 44 Table of Contents During both 2016 and 2015, we estimated research and development credits that resulted in an approximately $2.1 million tax benefit, net of any unrecognized tax benefits, for each respective year. During 2016, we completed a study for certain domestic production activities for the periods from 2010 to 2015 and amended our United States federal income tax returns for the periods from 2011 through 2014 to claim deductions related to domestic production activities for those periods. After all periods were amended and the 2015 federal income tax return was filed, we recognized a net benefit after consideration of any unrecognized tax benefits from the deductions in the amount of $23.6 million. Additionally, in 2016, we recognized a benefit after consideration of any unrecognized tax benefits of $8.3 million for the domestic production activities deduction for 2016. During 2014, we completed research and development credit studies for the periods from 2010 to 2013 and amended our United States federal income tax returns for the periods from 2010 through 2012 to claim the research and development credit for those periods. After all periods were amended and the 2013 federal income tax return was filed, we recognized a net benefit after consideration of any unrecognized tax benefits from the tax credits in the amount of $5.7 million. Additionally, in 2014, we recognized a benefit after consideration of any unrecognized tax benefits of $0.9 million for the estimated research and development credit for 2014. In addition, in 2014, we recorded $0.7 million of unrecognized tax benefits related to other matters. New Accounting Guidance Accounting Standards Update: Leases In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to leases that outlines a comprehensive lease accounting model and supersedes the current lease guidance. The new guidance requires lessees to recognize lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets for all leases with lease terms of greater than 12 months. It also changes the definition of a lease and expands the disclosure requirements of lease arrangements. The new guidance must be adopted using the modified retrospective approach and will be effective for the Company starting in the first quarter of 2020. Early adoption is permitted. We are in the process of determining the effect the adoption will have on the Company's consolidated financial statements. Accounting Standards Update: Stock Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, "Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." ASU 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for employee share-based payment transactions for both public and nonpublic entities, including the accounting for income taxes, forfeitures, and statutory tax withholding requirements, as well as classification in the statement of cash flows. The guidance is effective for the interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2016. As described in Note 2, " Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, " certain elements of our accounting for compensation costs associated with share-based transactions will change upon adoption of ASC 2016-09. We will no longer account for these costs net of estimated award forfeitures. Instead, we will adjust expense recognized to date in the event of canceled awards as they occur. Additionally, tax windfalls and shortfalls related to the tax effects of employee share-based compensation will no longer reside within additional paid-in-capital. Rather, these windfalls and shortfalls will be included in our tax provision. We will also adjust our disclosures included within our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Tax windfalls and shortfalls related to employee share-based compensation awards will be included within operating activities and cash paid to tax authorities for shares withheld will be included within financing activities. Although these changes will have no impact on the amount of share-based compensation expense we ultimately recognize, the inclusion of windfalls and shortfalls in the tax provision could increase our earnings volatility between periods. Accounting Standards Update: Consolidation In February 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-2, Consolidation (Topic 820): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis. ASU 2015-2 provides a revised consolidation model for all reporting entities to use in evaluating whether they should consolidate certain legal entities. All legal entities will be subject to reevaluation under this revised consolidation model. The revised consolidation model, among other things, (i) modifies the evaluation of whether limited partnerships and similar legal entities are voting interest entities, or VIEs, (ii) eliminates the presumption that a general partner should consolidate a limited partnership and (iii) modifies the consolidation analysis of reporting entities that are involved with VIEs through fee arrangements and related party relationships. ASU 2015-2 is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. The amended standard has not had any effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations. Accounting Standards Update: Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance on revenue from contracts with customers that will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in 45 Table of Contents exchange for those goods or services. The guidance also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers. The guidance is effective for the interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2017 (early adoption is permitted as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within those annual periods). The guidance permits the use of either a retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company does not intend to adopt the new guidance early and is in the process of determining the adoption method as well as the effects the adoption will have on its consolidated financial statements. Although we have not finalized our evaluation of the impact this accounting guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements, we expect that revenue from both our fixed-fee and per-unit licensees will be impacted. Under the new standard, the Company may be required to recognize up to a substantial majority of the royalties under a fixed-fee license agreement upfront upon entry into the agreement, as opposed to recognizing the royalties on a quarterly basis over the term of the agreement, which has been our historical practice. This could impact the revenue recognition of all of our fixed-fee patent license agreements, including certain fixed-fee agreements that cover both our current technologies and future technologies that are added to our portfolio during the term of the license, such as our patent license agreements with Apple and Samsung. In addition, under our existing policy, we recognize revenue from our per-unit royalty agreements one quarter in arrears from the period in which the underlying sales occurred. Upon adoption of the new accounting guidance, we will be required to record per-unit royalty revenue during the period in which the sales occurred based on estimates of our licensees sales, which will result in the recognition of an adjustment to true up revenue to the actual amounts reported by our licensees. Legal Proceedings We are routinely involved in disputes associated with enforcement and licensing activities regarding our intellectual property, including litigations, arbitrations and other proceedings. These litigations, arbitrations and other proceedings are important means to enforce our intellectual property rights. We are a party to other disputes and legal actions not related to our intellectual property, but also arising in the ordinary course of our business. Refer to Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10-K for a description of our material legal proceedings. FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our primary sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, as well as cash generated from operations. We believe we have the ability to obtain additional liquidity through debt and equity financings. Based on our past performance and current expectations, we believe our available sources of funds, including cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and cash generated from our operations, will be sufficient to finance our operations, capital requirements, debt obligations, existing stock repurchase program and dividend program for the next twelve months. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , we had the following amounts of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments (in thousands): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Increase / (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 404,074 $ 510,207 $ (106,133 ) Short-term investments 548,687 423,501 125,186 Total cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 952,761 $ 933,708 $ 19,053 The increase in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was primarily attributable to $430.8 million of cash provided by operating activities. This increase was partially offset by the repayment of the $230.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.50% senior convertible notes (the 2016 Notes) that became due in March 2016, share repurchases of $64.7 million , capitalized patent costs and patent acquisitions of $37.6 million and dividend payments of $31.1 million . Additionally, as discussed above, we acquired Hillcrest Labs in December 2016 for approximately $48.0 million in cash. Cash flows from operations We generated the following cash flows from our operating activities in 2016 and 2015 (in thousands): 46 Table of Contents For the Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Increase / (Decrease) Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 430,778 $ 114,499 $ 316,279 Our cash flows provided by operating activities are principally derived from cash receipts from patent license and technology solutions agreements offset by cash operating expenses and income tax payments. The increase in cash flows provided by operating activities of $316.3 million was primarily attributable to an increase in cash receipts of $311.9 million . This increase in cash receipts was attributable to new agreements signed during 2016. The table below provides the significant items comprising our cash flows provided by operating activities during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands). For the Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Increase / (Decrease) Cash Receipts: Fixed-fee royalty payments (a) $ 485,245 $ 136,084 $ 349,161 Current royalties (b) 158,899 223,270 (64,371 ) Prepaid royalties (c) 70,495 38,226 32,269 Technology solutions 5,300 10,445 (5,145 ) Total cash receipts $ 719,939 $ 408,025 $ 311,914 Cash Outflows: Cash operating expenses (d) (153,955 ) (169,954 ) 15,999 Income taxes paid (e) (108,635 ) (85,780 ) (22,855 ) Total cash outflows (262,590 ) (255,734 ) (6,856 ) Other working capital adjustments (26,571 ) (37,792 ) 11,221 Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 430,778 $ 114,499 $ 316,279 (a) Fixed-fee royalty payments for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 include $255.1 million and $1.1 million , respectively, of cash receipts recognized as past sales revenue. (b) Current patent royalty payments for the year ended December 31, 2016 includes $7.8 million of cash receipts recognized as past sales revenue. (c) Prepaid patent royalty payments for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 include $37.3 million and $24.8 million , respectively, of cash receipts recognized as past sales revenue. (d) Cash operating expenses include operating expenses less depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of patents, and non-cash compensation. (e) Income taxes paid include foreign withholding taxes. Working capital We believe that working capital, adjusted to exclude cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and to include current deferred revenue provides additional information about non-cash assets and liabilities that might affect our near-term liquidity. While we believe cash and short-term investments are important measures of our liquidity, the remaining components of our current assets and current liabilities, with the exception of deferred revenue, could affect our near-term liquidity and/or cash flow. We have no material obligations associated with our deferred revenue, and the amortization of deferred revenue has no impact on our future liquidity and/or cash flow. Our adjusted working capital, a non-GAAP financial measure, reconciles to working capital, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 (in thousands) as follows: 47 Table of Contents For the Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Increase / (Decrease) Current assets $ 1,221,119 $ 1,010,967 $ 210,152 Less : current liabilities 425,480 399,973 25,507 Working capital 795,639 610,994 184,645 Subtract: Cash and cash equivalents 404,074 510,207 (106,133 ) Short-term investments 548,687 423,501 125,186 Add: Current deferred revenue 360,192 106,229 253,963 Adjusted working capital $ 203,070 $ (216,485 ) $ 419,555 The $419.6 million net increase in adjusted working capital in 2016 compared to 2015 is primarily attributable to the repayment of the 2016 Notes in first quarter 2016, which resulted in a $227.2 million decrease in current liabilities, as well as an increase in accounts receivable of $174.6 million primarily related to new agreements signed during the year. Additionally, prepaid and other current assets increased $16.5 million primarily due to the second quarter 2016 recognition of a $29.4 million discrete gross benefit within our tax provision related to tax refunds expected on amended returns associated with available deductions for certain domestic production activities Cash used in or provided by investing and financing activities We used net cash in investing activities of $219.0 million and $214.0 million , respectively, in 2016 and 2015 . We purchased $125.6 million and $147.9 million , net of sales, of short-term marketable securities in 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Investment costs associated with capitalized patent costs and acquisition of patent costs decreased to $37.6 million in 2016 from $49.8 million in 2015 , primarily due to the inclusion in 2015 of a final payment of $20.0 million on a $45.0 million patent acquisition made in 2014. During fourth quarter 2016, we acquired Hillcrest Labs for $48.0 million as more fully discussed above. Additionally, long-term investments decreased by $10.6 million due to a decrease in strategic investment activity. Net cash used in financing activities for 2016 was $317.9 million , a $499.0 million change from $181.1 million net cash generated in 2015. This change was primarily attributable to the $230.0 million repayment of the 2016 Notes in first quarter 2016 as compared to the $306.7 million in net proceeds from the issuance and sale of the 1.50% senior convertible notes due 2020 (the 2020 Notes) in first quarter 2015. This change was partially offset by a $31.7 million decrease in repurchases of common stock in 2016 and $16.5 million of net costs for the bond hedge and warrant transactions entered into in first quarter 2015 in connection with the offering of the 2020 Notes Other Our combined short-term and long-term deferred revenue balance at December 31, 2016 was approximately $621.2 million , an increase of $225.9 million from December 31, 2015 . We have no material obligations associated with such deferred revenue. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to a gross increase in deferred revenue of $527.0 million primarily associated with $370.8 million collected from new fixed-fee agreements signed in 2016 and an additional $180.3 million due within twelve months, which were partially offset by $321.3 million of deferred revenue recognized. The deferred revenue recognized was comprised of $177.6 million of amortized fixed-fee royalty payments, $121.5 million of past patent royalties and $22.2 million in per-unit exhaustion of prepaid royalties (based upon royalty reports provided by our licensees). Based on current license agreements, we expect the amortization of fixed-fee royalty payments and the scheduled expiration of an agreement to reduce the December 31, 2016 deferred revenue balance of $621.2 million by $360.2 million over the next twelve months. Additional reductions to deferred revenue over the next twelve months will be dependent upon the level of per-unit royalties our licensees report against prepaid balances. Contractual Obligations On March 11, 2015, InterDigital entered into an indenture, by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, pursuant to which the 2020 Notes were issued. The 2020 Notes bear interest at a rate of 1.50% per year, payable in cash on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing September 1, 2015, and mature on March 1, 2020, unless earlier converted or repurchased. 48 Table of Contents For more information on the 2020 Notes, see Note 6, Obligations , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2016 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Thereafter 2020 Notes $ 316,000 $ $ $ 316,000 $ Contractual interest payments on the 2020 Notes 16,590 4,740 9,480 2,370 Operating lease obligations 20,516 4,389 6,473 4,225 5,429 Purchase obligations (a) 19,081 19,081 Total contractual obligations $ 372,187 $ 28,210 $ 15,953 $ 322,595 $ 5,429 (a) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services that are legally binding on us, as well as accounts payable. Our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2016 includes a $10.4 million noncurrent liability for uncertain tax positions. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2016 Compared with 2015 Revenues The following table compares 2016 revenues to 2015 revenues (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 (Decrease)/Increase Per-unit royalty revenue $ 168,050 $ 234,836 $ (66,786 ) (28 )% Fixed-fee amortized royalty revenue 177,614 131,837 45,777 35 % Current patent royalties (a) 345,664 366,673 (21,009 ) (6 )% Past patent royalties (b) 309,696 65,814 243,882 371 % Total patent licensing royalties 655,360 432,487 222,873 52 % Current technology solutions revenue (a) 10,494 6,096 4,398 72 % Past technology solutions revenue (b) 2,852 (2,852 ) (100 )% Total revenue $ 665,854 $ 441,435 $ 224,419 51 % (a) Recurring revenues consist of current patent royalties and current technology solutions revenue. (b) Past sales consist of past patent royalties and past technology solutions revenue. Pegatron's fourth quarter 2016 per-unit royalties are included in past patent royalties as a result of the new agreement signed with Apple during fourth quarter 2016. The $224.4 million increase in total revenue was primarily attributable to the signing of our new patent license agreements with Huawei and Apple in third quarter and fourth quarter 2016, respectively, which drove a $243.9 million increase in past patent royalties, which was partially offset by a $16.6 million decrease in recurring revenue. Per-unit royalty revenue decreased $66.8 million as compared to 2015 primarily due to decreased shipments by Pegatron and our other Taiwan-based licensees and the inclusion in past patent royalties of Pegatron's fourth quarter 2016 per-unit royalties as a result of the new agreement signed with Apple. The decrease in per-unit royalty revenue was partially offset by a $45.8 million increase in fixed-fee amortized royalty revenue primarily related to the Huawei and Apple agreements. 49 In 2016 and 2015 , 78% and 61% of our total revenues, respectively, were attributable to companies that individually accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. In 2016 and 2015 , the following licensees or customers accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues: For the Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Apple (a) 25% % Huawei (b) 23% % Pegatron (c) 20% 31% Samsung 10% 16% Sony (d) < 10% 14% (a) 2016 revenues include $141.4 million of past patent royalties. (b) 2016 revenues include $121.5 million of past patent royalties. (c) With the entry into the Apple PLA in fourth quarter 2016, we will no longer receive royalties under the 2008 Pegatron PLA for those products that Pegatron produces for Apple which are sold to or for Apple during the term of the Apple PLA. Additionally, we have recorded Pegatron's fourth quarter 2016 per-unit royalties within our past patent royalties as a result of the Apple agreement. (d) 2015 revenues include $21.9 million of past patent royalties. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes the change in operating expenses by category (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Increase/(Decrease) Patent administration and licensing $ 113,544 $ 120,401 $ (6,857 ) (6 )% Development 68,733 72,702 (3,969 ) (5 )% Selling, general and administrative 46,271 39,783 6,488 16 % Total operating expenses $ 228,548 $ 232,886 $ (4,338 ) (2 )% Operating expenses decreased 2% to $228.5 million in 2016 from $232.9 million in 2015 . The $4.3 million decrease in total operating expenses was primarily due to (decreases)/increases in the following items (in thousands): (Decrease)/ Increase Intellectual property enforcement and non-patent litigation $ (16,140 ) Commercial initiatives (5,717 ) Performance-based incentive compensation 9,275 Depreciation and amortization 4,806 Other 2,646 Personnel-related costs 792 Total decrease in operating expenses $ (4,338 ) The $4.3 million decrease in operating expenses was primarily attributable to the $16.1 million decrease in intellectual property enforcement and non-patent litigation primarily related to decreased costs associated with the USITC actions. The $5.7 million decrease in commercial initiatives expenses was primarily attributable to reduced spending on the development of commercial solutions and on-going efforts to optimize our cost structure. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in performance-based incentive compensation of $9.3 million due to higher accrual rates associated with our short and long-term performance-based compensation plans, following new agreements signed during the year. The $4.8 million increase in depreciation and amortization was primarily attributable to the growth in our patent portfolio driven by both internal patent 50 generation and patent acquisitions in recent years. Personnel-related costs increased $0.8 million primarily due to severance and related expenses associated with ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure. Patent administration and licensing expense: The $6.9 million decrease in patent administration and licensing expense primarily resulted from the above-noted decrease in intellectual property enforcement and non-patent litigation. This decrease was partially offset by increases in patent amortization expense and performance-based incentive compensation as discussed above. Development expense: The $4.0 million decrease in development expense primarily resulted from the above-noted decrease in commercial initiatives expenses. This decrease was partially offset by increased performance-based incentive compensation as discussed above. Selling, general and administrative expense: The $6.5 million increase in selling, general and administrative expense primarily resulted from the above-noted increase in performance-based incentive compensation. This increase was partially offset by decreased spending related to corporate branding and strategy-related initiatives. Other (Expense) Income The following table compares 2016 other (expense) income to 2015 other (expense) income (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 (Decrease)/Increase Interest expense $ (21,126 ) $ (30,417 ) $ 9,291 (31 )% Interest and investment income 3,748 3,858 (110 ) (3 )% Other (a) 2,343 (975 ) 3,318 (340 )% $ (15,035 ) $ (27,534 ) $ 12,499 (45 )% (a) Includes other-than-temporary impairments. In 2016, other expense was $15.0 million as compared to other expense of $27.5 million in 2015. The change in total other expense was primarily due to lower interest expense as a result of the repayment of the $230.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2016 Notes in first quarter 2016 and the increase in other income primarily related to the gain recognized related to the sale of our King of Prussia facility. Income Taxes In 2016, our effective tax rate was approximately 27.7% as compared to 35.7% in 2015, based on the statutory federal tax rate net of discrete federal and state taxes. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the 2016 net benefit received from domestic production activities deductions covering the current year and the periods 2011 through 2015. The inclusion of additional periods in 2016 reduced the 2016 effective tax rate by 5.6%. 2015 Compared with 2014 51 Table of Contents Revenues The following table compares 2015 revenues to 2014 revenues (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Increase/ (Decrease) Per-unit royalty revenue $ 234,836 $ 157,250 $ 77,586 49 % Fixed-fee amortized royalty revenue 131,837 121,903 9,934 8 % Current patent royalties (a) 366,673 279,153 87,520 31 % Past patent royalties (b) 65,814 124,236 (58,422 ) (47 )% Total patent licensing royalties 432,487 403,389 29,098 7 % Patent sales 1,999 (1,999 ) 100 % Current technology solutions revenue (a) 6,096 9,633 (3,537 ) (37 )% Past technology solutions revenue (b) 2,852 800 2,052 257 % Total revenue $ 441,435 $ 415,821 $ 25,614 6 % (a) Recurring revenues consist of current patent royalties and current technology solutions revenue. (b) Past sales consist of past patent royalties and past technology solutions revenue. The $25.6 million increase in total revenue was primarily attributable to the $87.5 million increase in current patent royalties. The increase of per-unit royalty revenue of $77.6 million was primarily related to increased shipments by Pegatron and other Taiwan-based licensees. The $9.9 million increase in fixed-fee amortized royalty revenue was primarily attributable to new patent license agreements signed during second quarter 2014. The increase in total revenue was also partially attributable to an increase in past technology solutions revenue of $2.1 million related to a settlement agreement signed during 2015. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $58.4 million in past patent royalties. The decrease in past sales was primarily related to three new patent license agreements signed during second quarter 2014, partially offset by past sales in 2015 attributable to new agreements signed in 2015. Additionally, current technology solutions revenue decreased by $3.5 million primarily due to decreased shipments of covered products by one of our technology solutions customers. Patent sales decreased by $2.0 million due to the absence of any patent sales in 2015. In 2015 and 2014, 61% and 51% of our total revenues, respectively, were attributable to companies that individually accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. In 2015 and 2014, the following licensees or customers accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues: For the Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Pegatron 31% 18% Samsung (a) 16% 33% Sony (b) 14% < 10% (a) 2014 revenues include $86.3 million of past patent royalties. (b) 2015 revenues include $21.9 million of past patent royalties. 52 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table summarizes the change in operating expenses by category (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Increase/(Decrease) Patent administration and licensing $ 120,401 $ 133,808 $ (13,407 ) (10 )% Development 72,702 75,300 (2,598 ) (3 )% Selling, general and administrative 39,783 37,753 2,030 5 % Total operating expenses $ 232,886 $ 246,861 $ (13,975 ) (6 )% Operating expenses decreased 6% to $232.9 million in 2015 from $246.9 million in 2014. The $14.0 million decrease in total operating expenses was primarily due to (decreases)/increases in the following items (in thousands): Increase/ (Decrease) Intellectual property enforcement $ (19,572 ) Performance-based incentive compensation (4,165 ) Consulting services (1,022 ) Cost of patent sales (700 ) Personnel-related costs (634 ) Bad debt expense (392 ) Other (86 ) Depreciation and amortization 5,675 Commercial initiatives 6,921 Total decrease in operating expenses $ (13,975 ) The $14.0 million decrease in operating expenses was primarily attributable to the $19.6 million decrease in intellectual property enforcement and non-patent litigation primarily related to decreased costs associated with the USITC actions, which was partially offset by costs associated with licensee arbitrations. The $4.2 million decrease in performance-based incentive compensation, including both short-term and long-term compensation, was primarily attributable to higher accrual rate true-ups in 2014 as a result of new license agreements signed during 2014. The $1.0 million decrease in consulting services primarily resulted from a reduction in the use of external resources for research and development projects. The $0.7 million decrease in cost of patent sales was due to the absence of patent sales in 2015. Personnel-related costs decreased $0.6 million primarily due to a prior year adjustment related to payroll taxes and employment level tax credits, primarily as a result of an ongoing audit. Bad debt expense decreased $0.4 million as a result of the settlement agreement with a technology solutions customer signed during 2015. The $5.7 million increase in depreciation and amortization was primarily due to patent acquisitions made during 2015 and 2014, along with the organic annual growth of our patent portfolio. The $6.9 million increase in commercial initiatives expense was attributable to activities to commercialize IoT and next generation networks technologies. Patent administration and licensing expense : The $13.4 million decrease in patent administration and licensing expense primarily resulted from the above-noted decreases in intellectual property enforcement and performance-based incentive compensation, partially offset by increases in patent amortization and patent maintenance and evaluation costs primarily related to the increased growth of the patent portfolio due to patents acquired pursuant to the new agreements signed during 2015. Development expense : The $2.6 million decrease in development expense was primarily attributable to the above-noted decreases in performance-based incentive compensation, consulting services and personnel costs, partially offset by an increase in costs related to commercial initiatives as described above. Selling, general and administrative expense : The $2.0 million increase in selling, general and administrative expense was primarily attributable to increases in personnel-related costs and consulting services primarily related to corporate and commercial initiatives. Other (Expense) Income 53 Table of Contents The following table compares 2015 other (expense) income to 2014 other (expense) income (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (Decrease)/Increase Interest expense $ (30,417 ) $ (16,084 ) $ (14,333 ) 89 % Other (a) (975 ) (747 ) (228 ) 31 % Interest and investment income 3,858 1,399 2,459 176 % $ (27,534 ) $ (15,432 ) $ (12,102 ) 78 % (a) Includes other-than-temporary impairments. The change in other expenses is primarily driven by the increase in interest expense resulting from the 2020 Notes issued during first quarter 2015, partially offset by $1.8 million of interest income related to a settlement agreement with a technology solutions customer. Income Taxes In 2015, our effective tax rate was approximately 35.7% as compared to 33.9% in 2014, based on the statutory federal tax rate net of discrete federal and state taxes. The increase in the effective tax rate from 2014 to 2015 resulted primarily from the 2014 net benefit received from research and development tax credits covering the periods 2010 through 2014. The inclusion of additional periods in 2014 accounted for a 2.7% lower effective tax rate in 2014. This benefit in 2014 was partially offset by a 1% effective tax rate increase resulting from higher audit settlements in 2014. STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 - FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements include certain information in Part I, Item 1. Business and Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other information regarding our current beliefs, plans and expectations, including without limitation the matters set forth below. Words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, forecast, believe, could, would, should, if, may, might, future, target, goal, trend, seek to, will continue, predict, likely, in the event, variations of any such words or similar expressions contained herein are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, without limitation, statements regarding: (i) Our objective to continue to be a leading designer and developer of technology solutions and innovation for the mobile industry and to monetize those solutions and innovations through a combination of licensing, sales and other revenue opportunities; (ii) Our plans for executing on our business strategy, including our plans to develop and source innovative technologies related to wireless, establish and grow our patent-based revenue, pursue commercial opportunities for our advanced platforms and solutions, and maintain a collaborative relationship with key industry players and worldwide standards bodies; (iii) Our belief that our portfolio includes a number of patents and patent applications that are or may be essential or may become essential to cellular and other wireless standards, including 3G, 4G and the IEEE 802 suite of standards, as well as patents and patent applications that we believe may become essential to 5G standards that are under development; (iv) Our belief that a number of our CDMA and OFDM/OFDMA inventions are, may be or may become essential to the implementation of CDMA and OFDM/OFDMA-based systems in use today; (v) Our belief that companies making, importing, using or selling products compliant with the standards covered by our patent portfolio require a license under our patents and will require a license under patents that may issue from our pending patent applications; (vi) Our belief that our ongoing research efforts and associated patenting activities enable us to sell patent assets that are not vital to our core licensing programs, as well as to execute patent swaps that can strengthen our overall portfolio; 54 Table of Contents (vii) Our belief that our standalone commercial initiatives are potential sources of revenue; (viii) The predicted increases in worldwide mobile device shipments, including shipments of handsets, and the estimated growth of the IoT market, including the size of the connected device installed base and number of connected device shipments, over the next several years; (ix) The types of licensing arrangements and various royalty structure models that we anticipate using under our future license agreements; (x) The possible outcome of audits of our license agreements when underreporting or underpayment is revealed; (xi) Our belief that our facilities are suitable and adequate for our present purposes and our needs in the near future; (xii) Our expectation that, as a result of our entry into fixed-fee patent license agreements with Huawei and Apple during 2016, our fixed-fee royalties will be a larger percentage of our recurring revenue in 2017; (xiii) Our expectation that we will continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock comparable to our quarterly $0.30 per share cash dividend in the future; (xiv) Our belief that intellectual property enforcement costs will likely continue to be a significant expense for us in the future; (xv) Our belief that our available sources of funds will be sufficient to finance our operations, capital requirements, debt obligations, existing stock repurchase program and dividend program for the next twelve months; (xvi) Our expectations regarding the potential effects of new accounting standards, including the new revenue recognition guidance, on our financial statements or results of operations; (xvii) Our expectation that revenue from both our fixed-fee and per-unit licensees will be impacted by the new revenue recognition guidance that becomes effective for the Company in 2018; (xviii) Our expectations with regard to any current tax audits; (xix) Our expectation that the amortization of fixed-fee royalty payments and scheduled expiration of an agreement will reduce our deferred revenue balance over the next twelve months; (xx) Our expectation that after receiving the remaining patents to be transferred from Huawei by June 30, 2017, we will recognize additional past sales and current patent royalties associated with such patents; and (xxi) The expected timing, outcome and impact of our various litigation, arbitration and administrative matters. Although the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements concerning our business, results of operations and financial condition are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. We caution readers that actual results and outcomes could differ materially from those expressed in or anticipated by such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the following: (i) unanticipated difficulties or delays related to the further development of our technologies; (ii) the failure of the markets for our technologies to materialize to the extent or at the rate that we expect; (iii) changes in our plans, strategy or initiatives; (iv) the challenges related to entering into new and renewed patent license agreements and unanticipated delays, difficulties or acceleration in the negotiation and execution of patent license agreements; (v) our ability to leverage our strategic relationships and secure new patent license and technology solutions agreements on acceptable terms; (vi) the impact of current trends in the industry that could result in reductions in and/or caps on royalty rates under new patent license agreements; (vii) changes in the market share and sales performance of our primary licensees, delays in product shipments of our licensees, delays in the timely receipt and final reviews of quarterly royalty reports from our licensees, delays in payments from our licensees and related matters; (viii) the timing and/or outcome of our various litigation, arbitration, regulatory or administrative proceedings, including any awards or judgments relating to such proceedings, additional legal proceedings, changes in the schedules or costs associated with legal proceedings or adverse rulings in such legal proceedings; 55 Table of Contents (ix) the determination of royalty rates, or other terms, under our patent license agreements through arbitration or other third party adjudications, or the establishment by arbitrators or other third party adjudicators of patent royalty rates at levels lower than our agreed or historical rates; (x) the impact of potential patent legislation, USPTO rule changes and international patent rule changes on our patent prosecution and licensing strategies; (xi) the impact of rulings in legal proceedings, potential legislation affecting the jurisdiction and authority of the USITC and potential changes to the IPR policies of worldwide standards bodies on our investments in research and development and our strategies for patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement; (xii) the final outcome of our evaluation of the new revenue recognition accounting guidance and the resulting impact on our consolidated financial statements once the guidance is adopted in 2018; (xiii) the timing and/or outcome of any state or federal tax examinations or audits, changes in tax laws and the resulting impact on our tax assets and liabilities; (xiv) the effects of any dispositions, acquisitions or other strategic transactions by the Company; (xv) decreased liquidity in the capital markets; and (xvi) unanticipated increases in our cash needs or decreases in available cash. You should carefully consider these factors as well as the risks and uncertainties outlined in greater detail in Part I, Item 1A, in this Form 10-K before making any investment decision with respect to our common stock. These factors, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expected and historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. In addition, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein, which are made only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as otherwise required by law.