Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (All dollar amounts are rounded to thousands, except shares and per share data) Forward Looking Statements This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, particularly statements anticipating future growth in revenues, loss from operations and cash flow. Words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and beliefs about future events. As with any projection or forecast, they are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances, and the Company is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of such changes, new information, subsequent events or otherwise. References made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to we, our, us, Intellicheck, or the Company, refer to Intellicheck, Inc. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations constitutes managements review of the factors that affected our financial and operating performance for the three months ended September 30, 2024. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Overview We are a prominent technology company engaged in developing, integrating and marketing identity verification solutions to address challenges that include commercial retail and banking fraud prevention. Our products include solutions for preventing identity fraud across any industry delivered via smartphone, tablet, POS integration or other electronic devices. Critical Accounting Policies and the Use of Estimates The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. Significant estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the financial statements include impairment consideration and valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, deferred tax valuation allowances, capitalization of software development costs, revenue recognition (including breakage revenue), allowance for credit losses, and the fair value of stock options under the Companys stock-based compensation plan. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be different from those estimates. We believe that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amounts of revenue and the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. These significant accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, deferred taxes, goodwill and intangible asset valuation and impairment, and commitments and contingencies. These policies and our procedures related to these policies are summarized below and described in further detail in the Notes to condensed Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures, which enhances reporting requirements under Topic 280. The enhanced disclosure requirements include: title and position of the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), significant segment expenses provided to the CODM, extending certain annual disclosures to interim periods, clarifying single reportable segment entities must apply ASC 280 in its entirety, and permitting more than one measure of segment profit or loss to be reported under certain circumstances. This change is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023 and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2024. This change will apply retrospectively to all periods presented. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on its financial statements. 23 Index In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09, Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures (Topic 740), which establishes new income tax disclosure requirements in addition to modifying and eliminating certain existing requirements. The new guidance requires consistent categorization and greater disaggregation of information in the rate reconciliation, as well as further disaggregation of income taxes paid. This change is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024. This change will apply on a prospective basis to annual financial statements for periods beginning after the effective date. However, retrospective application in all prior periods presented is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on its financial statements. Goodwill The excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets of acquired businesses is considered goodwill. Under authoritative guidance, goodwill is not amortized, but rather it is periodically reviewed for impairment. We had goodwill of $8,102 as of September 30, 2024. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company performed its annual impairment test of goodwill in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Under authoritative guidance, the Company can use industry and Company specific qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that impairment exists before performing step one of the quantitative goodwill impairment test. An entity is not required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. Events or changes in circumstances which could trigger an impairment review include macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance, other entity specific events and sustained decrease in share price. We determined that no events occurred or circumstances changed during the three and nine-months ended September 30, 2024 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the Company below its carrying amounts. We will, however, continue to monitor our stock price and operations for any potential indicators of impairment. We will conduct the 2024 annual test for goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter, or at such time where an indicator of impairment appears to exist. Intangible Assets Our intangible assets consist of patents, a software license, and capitalized software development costs. We determined that no events occurred, or circumstances changed during the three months ended September 30, 2024 that would more likely than not reduce our intangible assets below our carrying amounts. We will, however, continue to monitor any potential indicators of impairment. See Note 5, Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Financial Statements for details on the Companys intangible assets. Revenue Recognition and Deferred Revenue Most license fees and services revenue are generated from a combination of fixed-price and per-scan contracts. Under the per-scan revenue model, customers are charged a fee each time the customer scans an identity document, such as a drivers license, with the Companys software. Under the fixed-price revenue model customers are charged a fixed monthly fee either per device or physical business location to access the Companys software. Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services. The Company measures revenue based on the consideration specified in a customer arrangement, and revenue is recognized when the performance obligations in an arrangement are satisfied. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct service to the customer. The transaction price of a contract is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the customer receives the benefit of the performance obligation. Customers typically receive the benefit of the Companys services as they are performed. The Company's performance obligations are satisfied over time, and as a result, we may follow the right to invoice practical expedient meaning we recognize revenue monthly as invoiced based on our contract terms. Reference Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Financial Statements for additional details on the Companys recognized and deferred revenue. Stock-Based Compensation We account for the issuance of stock-based compensation awards to employees in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation Stock Compensation, which requires that the cost resulting from all stock-based compensation payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. This pronouncement establishes fair value as the measurement 24 Index objective in accounting for stock-based compensation payment arrangements and requires all companies to apply a fair value-based measurement method in accounting for all stock-based compensation payment transactions with employees. Reference Note 9, Stockholders' Equity, in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Financial Statements for details on the Companys stock-based compensation plans. Deferred Income Taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and net operating loss carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We have recorded a full valuation allowance for our net deferred tax assets as of September 30, 2024, due to the uncertainty of our ability to realize those assets. Reference Note 8, Income Taxes, in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Financial Statements for details on the Companys income taxes. Commitments and Contingencies We are not currently involved in any legal or regulatory proceeding, or arbitration, the outcome of which is expected to have a material adverse effect on our business. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of our accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles, with no need for managements judgment in their application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. Results of Operations (All dollar amounts are rounded to thousands, except share and per share data) COMPARISON OF THE THREE MONTHS ENDED September 30, 2024 TO THE THREE MONTHS ENDED September 30, 2023 Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2024 decreased $51, or 1%, to approximately $4,709 compared to $4,760 for the same period of 2023. The decrease in revenues is primarily the result of lower Equipment revenues for the current period. Equipment revenue, which consists of the sale of equipment is recognized at a point in time, decreased $93 or 88% to $13 for the three months ended September 30, 2024 compared to $106 for the same period of 2023. SaaS revenue increased $26 or 1% to $4,661 for the three months ended September 30, 2024 compared to $4,635 for the same period of 2023. Gross profit decreased $47, or 1%, to $4,285 for three months ended September 30, 2024 from $4,332 for the same period of 2023. Our gross profit, as a percentage of revenues, was 91% for the three months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Operating expenses, which consist of selling, general and administrative and research and development expenses, decreased $32, or 0.6%, to $5,195 for the three months ended September 30, 2024 compared to $5,227 for the same period of 2023. As a result of the factors noted above, the Company had a net loss of $(837) for the three months ended September 30, 2024 as compared to a net loss of $(724) for the three months ended September 30, 2023. COMPARISON OF THE NINE MONTHS ENDED September 30, 2024 TO THE NINE MONTHS ENDED September 30, 2023 Revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 increased $330, or 2%, to approximately $14,060 compared to $13,730 for the same period of 2023. The increase in revenues is primarily the result of higher transaction volumes for SaaS for the current period. SaaS revenue, which consists of software licensed as a service on a subscription basis, increased $370 or 2% to $13,896 for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to $13,526 for the same period of 2023. 25 Index Gross profit increased $139, or 1%, to $12,757 for nine months ended September 30, 2024 from $12,618 for the same period of 2023. Our gross profit, as a percentage of revenues, was 91% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Operating expenses, which consist of selling, general and administrative and research and development expenses, decreased $1,352, or 9%, to $14,391 for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to $15,743 for the same period of 2023. This decrease was primarily driven by lower stock-based compensation. As a result of the factors noted above, the Company had a net loss of $(1,406) for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 as compared to a net loss of $(2,964) for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $5,747, working capital (defined as current assets minus current liabilities) of $5,699, total assets of $20,682 and stockholders equity of $16,735. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024, we used net cash of $(1,373) in operating activities as compared to net cash of $(1,114) used by operating activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Cash provided by investing activities was $3,120 for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to cash provided by investing activities of $18 for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Cash provided by financing activities was $20 for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to net cash of $(138) used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. We currently anticipate that our available cash, expected cash from operations and availability under the revolving line of credit, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months from the date of filing. Reference Note 6, Debt, in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Financial Statements for details on the Companys revolving line of credit. We keep the option open to raise additional funds to respond to business contingencies which may include the need to fund more rapid expansion, fund additional marketing expenditures, develop new markets for our technology, enhance our operating infrastructure, respond to competitive pressures, or acquire complementary businesses or necessary technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the additional funds when needed or obtain such on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. The specific terms of any future offering, including the prices and use of proceeds, will be determined at the time of any such offering and will be described in detail in a prospectus supplement which will be filed with the SEC at the time of the offering. We are not currently involved in any legal or regulatory proceeding, or arbitration, the outcome of which is expected to have a material effect on our business. Net Operating Loss Carry Forwards Our available net operating loss (NOL) as of December 31, 2023 was approximately $26,300, of which $10,900 expires between 2035 and 2037. In accordance with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act"), U.S. NOLs arising in a tax year ending after 2017 in the amount of $15,400 will not expire, but are subject to 80% limitation on utilization. In addition to the NOLs, the Company has approximately $708 of research and development credits. Adjusted EBITDA and Use of a Non-GAAP Measure We use Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP financial performance measurement. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by adjusting net loss for certain reductions such as interest and other income (expense), provisions for income taxes, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation expense. Adjusted EBITDA is provided to investors to supplement the results of operations reported in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that Adjusted EBITDA provides an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our financial results with other companies that also use Adjusted EBITDA in their communications to investors. By excluding non-cash charges such as impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill, amortization, depreciation and stock-based compensation, as well as non-operating charges for interest and provisions for income taxes, investors can evaluate our operations and can compare the results on a more consistent 26 Index basis to the results of other companies. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is one of the primary measures management uses to monitor and evaluate financial and operating results. We consider Adjusted EBITDA to be an important indicator of our operational strength and performance of our business and a useful measure of our historical operating trends. However, there are significant limitations to the use of Adjusted EBITDA since it excludes non-restructuring severance expenses, provisions for income taxes, interest and other (expense) income, impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill, stock-based compensation expense, all of which impact our profitability, as well as depreciation and amortization related to the use of long-term assets which benefit multiple periods. We believe that these limitations are compensated by providing Adjusted EBITDA only with GAAP net loss and clearly identifying the difference between the two measures. Consequently, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net loss presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA as defined by us may not be comparable with similarly named measures provided by other companies. The reconciliation of GAAP net loss to Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA is as follows: Three Months Ended September 30 Nine Months Ended September 30 2024 2023 2024 2023 Net loss $ (837) $ (724) $ (1,406) $ (2,964) Reconciling items: Restructuring severance expenses 376 131 376 548 Provision for income taxes 8 2 20 Interest and other income (73) (179) (230) (181) Sales tax accrual 80 227 Depreciation and amortization 130 71 275 210 Stock-based compensation, including liability classified awards 237 342 642 1,347 Adjusted EBITDA $ (167) $ (271) $ (341) $ (793) Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements and have not established any special purpose entities. We have not guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities or entered into any options on non-financial assets.