Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview We are a prominent technology company that is engaged in developing, integrating and marketing identity authentication and threat identification solutions to address challenges that include bank and retail fraud prevention, law enforcement threat identification, and mobile and handheld access control and security for the government, military and commercial markets. Our products include Retail ID, a solution for preventing fraud in the retail industry; Age ID, a smartphone or tablet-based solution for preventing sale of age-restricted products to minors, and Defense ID, a mobile and fixed infrastructure solution for threat identification, identity authentication and access control to military bases and other government facilities. Critical Accounting Policies and the Use of Estimates The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. Significant estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the financial statements include impairment consideration and valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, deferred tax valuation allowances, allowance for doubtful accounts, revenue allocation of multi-element arrangements and the fair value of stock options granted under our stock-based compensation plans. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be different from those estimates. We believe that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amounts of revenue and the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. These significant accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, deferred taxes, goodwill and intangible asset valuation and impairment, and commitments and contingencies. These policies and our procedures related to these policies are described in detail below. Valuation of goodwill and other long-lived assets Our long-lived assets include property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets. As of December 31, 2019, the balances of property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, all net of accumulated depreciation and amortization and impairments, were $181,731, $8,101,661 and $174,237, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, the balances of property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, all net of accumulated depreciation and amortization and impairments, were $264,583, $8,101,661 and $306,575, respectively. We depreciate property and equipment and amortize intangible assets that have finite lives over their estimated useful lives. For purposes of determining whether there are any impairment losses, as further discussed below, management evaluates the carrying amounts of identifiable long-lived tangible and intangible assets, including their estimated useful lives, when indicators of impairment are present as more fully described below. Based on our review of the carrying amounts of the long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite lives, we may also determine that shorter estimated useful lives are appropriate. In that event, we record depreciation and amortization over shorter future periods, which would reduce our earnings. Goodwill The excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets of the acquired businesses is considered goodwill. Under authoritative guidance, purchased goodwill is not amortized, but rather it is periodically reviewed for impairment. We had goodwill of $8,101,661 as of December 31, 2019 and 2018. This goodwill resulted from the acquisition of Mobilisa, Inc. and Positive Access Corporation. 24 For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we performed our annual impairment test of goodwill in the fourth quarter. Under authoritative guidance, we can use industry and Company specific qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that impairment exists, before using a two-step quantitative analysis. Events or changes in circumstances which could trigger an impairment review include macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance, other entity specific events and sustained decrease in share price. We performed the first step of the goodwill impairment test in order to identify potential impairment by comparing our fair value of the Company to our carrying amount, including goodwill. The fair value was determined using the weighting of certain valuation techniques, including both income and market approaches which include a discounted cash flow analysis, an estimation of an implied control premium, in addition to our market capitalization on the measurement date. The implied control premium selected was developed based on certain observable market data of comparable companies. The market capitalization is sensitive to the volatility of our stock price. Although we believe that the factors considered in the impairment analysis are reasonable, changes in any one of the assumptions used could have produced a different result which may have led to an impairment charge. Any future impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our long-term assets and operating expenses in the period in which impairment is determined to exist. For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we determined that the fair value was more than our carrying amount and therefore the second step of the goodwill impairment test was not required. Intangible Assets Intangible assets include trade names, patents and non-contractual customer relationships as described more fully in Note 5. We use the straight-line method to amortize these assets over their estimated useful lives. We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be fully recoverable in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 360. To determine recoverability of its long-lived assets, we evaluate the probability that future undiscounted net cash flows, without interest charges, will be less than the carrying amount of the assets. Impairment is measured at fair value. No impairments were recognized during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Revenue Recognition and Deferred Revenue The majority of license fees and services revenue are generated from a combination of fixed-price and per-scan contracts. Under the per-scan revenue model, customers are charged a fee each time the customer scans an identity document, such as a drivers license, with our software. Under the fixed-price revenue model customers are charged a fixed monthly fee either per device or physical business location to access our software. In certain instances, customization services are determined to be essential to the functionality of the delivered software. Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services. We measure revenue based on the consideration specified in a customer arrangement, and revenue is recognized when the performance obligations in an arrangement are satisfied. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct service to the customer. The transaction price of a contract is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when or as, the customer receives the benefit of the performance obligation. Customers typically receive the benefit of our services as they are performed. Substantially all customer contracts provide that we are compensated for services performed to date. Invoicing is based on schedules established in customer contracts. Payment terms are generally established from 30 to 60 days from the invoice date. Product returns are recorded as a reduction to revenue. Revenue is measured based on a consideration specified in a contract with a customer, and excludes any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties. Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to the customer, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Furthermore, we recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer. Stock-Based Compensation We account for the issuance of equity awards to employees in accordance with ASC Topic 718, which requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. This pronouncement establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share based payment arrangements and requires all companies to apply a fair value-based measurement method in accounting for all share-based payment transactions with employees. 25 Deferred Income Taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and net operating loss carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using expected tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We have recorded a full valuation allowance for our net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, due to the uncertainty of the realizability of those assets. Commitments and Contingencies We are not currently involved in any legal or regulatory proceeding, or arbitration, the outcome of which is expected to have a material adverse effect on our business. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all our accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles, with no need for managements judgment in their application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. Results of Operations (All figures were rounded to the nearest $1,000) COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 REVENUES . Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 increased 73% to $7,664,000 compared to $4,433,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase in revenues in 2019 is a primarily the result of higher commercial revenues offset by a decrease in Defense ID revenues. Software as a Service (SaaS) revenue, which consists of software licensed on a subscription basis, increased $3,406,000 or 126% to $6,102,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $2,696,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. GROSS PROFIT . Gross profit increased by $2,621,000 to $6,668,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019 from $4,047,000 in the year ended December 31, 2018. Our gross profit, as a percentage of revenues, was 87% and 91% in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in percentage is primarily due to increased hosting costs on our SaaS revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES . Operating expenses, which consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses, increased by $1,176,000 or 14% to $9,316,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019 from $8,140,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 8% to $5,659,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019 from $5,236,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. This increase is primarily due to higher stock-based compensation costs, sales commissions and accrued incentive plans offset by decreases in sales personnel headcount and related travel, facility expenses and the reduction of marketing efforts to normalized levels. Research and development expenses increased 26% to $3,657,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019 from $2,904,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018, due to increased headcount for development personnel and accrued incentive plans offset by reductions in development consultants and outside services for certain projects. INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME . Interest and other income were $99,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to $130,000 during the year ended December 31, 2018. INCOME TAXES . We have incurred net losses to date; therefore, we have paid nominal income taxes. NET LOSS . As a result of the factors noted above, we incurred a net loss of $2,549,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to a net loss of $3,964,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. 26 Liquidity and Capital Resources (All figures were rounded to the nearest $1,000) As of December 31, 2019, we had cash of $3,351,000, working capital (defined as current assets minus current liabilities) of $3,178,000, total assets of $13,997,000 and stockholders equity of $11,750,000. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our cash decreased by $1,025,000. Cash used in operating activities was $1,841,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to cash used in operating activities of $4,221,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. We generated cash of $22,000 in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to cash used in investing activities of $101,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. Cash generated in financing activities was $794,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to $688,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. On February 6, 2019, we entered into a revolving credit facility with Citibank that allows for borrowings up to the lesser of (i) $2,000,000 or (ii) the collateralized balance in our existing fixed income investment account with Citibank. The facility bears interest at a rate consistent of Citibanks Base Rate (6.25% at December 31, 2019) minus 2% subject to certain limitations. Interest is payable monthly and as of December 31, 2019, there were no amounts outstanding under this facility and unused availability under this facility was $2,000,000. We currently anticipate that our available cash, as well as cash from the previously mentioned stock offerings, and expected cash from operations and availability under the revolving credit agreement, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months from the date of filing. We keep the option open to raise additional funds to respond to business contingencies which may include the need to fund more rapid expansion, fund additional marketing expenditures, develop new markets for our technology, enhance our operating infrastructure, respond to competitive pressures, or acquire complementary businesses or necessary technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the additional funds when needed or obtain such on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. We have filed a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which became effective July 19, 2010. Under the shelf registration statement, we may offer and sell, from time to time in the future in one or more public offerings, our common stock, preferred stock, warrants, and units. The aggregate initial offering price of all securities sold by us will not exceed $25,000,000, and, pursuant to SEC rules, we may only sell up to one-third of the market cap held by non-affiliate stockholders in any 12-month period. We renewed this registration statement with the SEC on July 31, 2013 and it was declared effective August 6, 2013. We renewed this registration statement with the SEC on October 21, 2016 and it was declared effective November 4, 2016. We anticipate renewing this registration again in 2020. The specific terms of any future offering, including the prices and use of proceeds, will be determined at the time of any such offering and will be described in detail in a prospectus supplement which will be filed with the SEC at the time of the offering. The shelf registration statement is designed to give us the flexibility to access additional capital at some point in the future when market conditions are appropriate. We are not currently involved in any legal or regulatory proceeding, or arbitration, the outcome of which is expected to have a material adverse effect on our business. Adjusted EBITDA We use Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP financial performance measurement. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by adding back to net loss interest and other income, income taxes, impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation expense. Adjusted EBITDA is provided to investors to supplement the results of operations reported in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that Adjusted EBITDA provides an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our financial results with other companies that also use Adjusted EBITDA in their communications to investors. By excluding non-cash charges such as impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill, amortization, depreciation and stock-based compensation, as well as non-operating charges for interest and income taxes, investors can evaluate our operations and can compare its results on a more consistent basis to the results of other companies. In addition, adjusted EBITDA is one of the primary measures management uses to monitor and evaluate financial and operating results. 27 We consider Adjusted EBITDA to be an important indicator of our operational strength and performance of our business and a useful measure of our historical operating trends. However, there are significant limitations to the use of Adjusted EBITDA since it excludes interest and other income, impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill, stock-based compensation expense, all of which impact our profitability, as well as depreciation and amortization related to the use of long-term assets which benefit multiple periods. We believe that these limitations are compensated by providing Adjusted EBITDA only with GAAP net loss and clearly identifying the difference between the two measures. Consequently, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net loss presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA as defined us may not be comparable with similarly named measures provided by other entities. A reconciliation of GAAP net loss to Adjusted EBITDA follows: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Net loss $ (2,548,711 ) $ (3,963,576 ) Reconciling items: Interest and other income (99,059 ) (129,923 ) Depreciation and amortization 249,895 245,548 Stock-based compensation expense 584,865 186,707 Adjusted EBITDA $ (1,813,010 ) $ (3,661,244 ) Net Operating Loss Carry Forwards Our available net operating loss (NOL) at December 31, 2019 was approximately $17 million. The federal and state NOLs are available to offset future taxable income and expire from 2020 through 2038 if not utilized. Contractual Obligations Below is a table, which presents our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2019: Payments Due by Period Less than 1-3 3-5 More than Total 1 year years years 5 years Operating Leases $ 163,822 $ 130,930 $ 32,892 $ - $ - Total Contractual Obligations $ 163,822 $ 130,930 $ 32,892 $ - $ - Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Except as discussed below, we do not expect the impact of the future adoption of recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our financial statements. In December 2019, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes as part of its initiative to reduce complexity in the accounting standards. The standard eliminates certain exceptions related to the approach for intraperiod tax allocation, the methodology for calculating income taxes in an interim period and the recognition of deferred tax liabilities for outside basis differences. The standard also clarifies and simplifies other aspects of the accounting for income taxes. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2020 and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that this standard will have on our financial statements. 28 In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, IntangiblesGoodwill and OtherInternal-Use Software (ASC 350-40): Customers Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract (ASU 2018-15). The standard requires hosting arrangements that are service contracts to follow the guidance for internal-use software to determine which implementation costs can be capitalized. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted and can be applied retrospectively or prospectively . We determined has this standard will not have a material impact on our financial statements. In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted the final rule amending certain disclosure requirements that have become redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated, or superseded. In addition, the amendments expand the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders equity for interim financial statements. Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement. The rule was effective on November 5, 2018 and was effective for the quarter that begun after the effective date. We applied these changes on the Statement of Stockholders Equity in our financial statements and did not have a material impact on this presentation. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Accounting for Goodwill Impairment (ASU 2017-04). ASU 2017-04 removes the requirement to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation to measure goodwill impairment. A goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting units carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and early adoption is permitted. We are in the process of evaluating the impact of this standard on our financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments to measure credit losses on financial instruments, including trade receivables. The guidance eliminates the probable initial recognition threshold that was previously required prior to recognizing a credit loss on financial instruments. The credit loss estimate can now reflect an entitys current estimate of all future expected credit losses. Under the previous guidance, an entity only considered past events and current conditions. The guidance is effective for smaller reporting companies for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of certain amendments of this guidance must be applied on a modified retrospective basis and the adoption of the remaining amendments must be applied on a prospective basis. We are in the process of evaluating the impact of this standard on our financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (ASU 2016-02) which provides guidance on accounting for leases. The guidance requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities related to long-term leases on the balance sheet and expands disclosure requirements regarding leasing arrangements. In July 2018, the FASB issued additional guidance, which offers a transition option to entities adopting the new lease standards. Under the transition option, entities can elect to apply the new guidance using a modified retrospective approach at the beginning of the year in which the new lease standard is adopted, rather than to the earliest comparative period presented in their financial statements. The guidance is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and early adoption is permitted. The guidance must be adopted on a modified retrospective basis and provides for certain practical expedients. We adopted ASU 2016-02 effective January 1, 2019 and elected the optional transitional method to apply this standard as of this effective date and therefore, we will not apply this standard to the comparative periods presented in our financial statements. We elected the practical expedient to include non-lease components as rent and utilities in the definition of rent payments. The impact of adoption was the recognition of a right-to-use asset and corresponding liability on our financial statements in the amount of approximately $266,000 and $274,000, respectively, and did not have a significant impact on our statement of operations. 29 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have never entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements and have never established any special purpose entities. We have not guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities or entered into any options on non-financial assets. Forward Looking Statements This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, particularly statements anticipating future growth in revenues, loss from operations and cash flow. Words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and beliefs about future events. As with any projection or forecast, they are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances, and the Company is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of such changes, new information, subsequent events or otherwise.