Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (All dollar amounts are rounded to thousands, except shares and per share data) Forward Looking Statements This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, particularly statements anticipating future growth in revenues, loss from operations and cash flow. Words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and beliefs about future events. As with any projection or forecast, they are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances, and the Company is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of such changes, new information, subsequent events or otherwise. References made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to we, our, us, Intellicheck, or the Company, refer to Intellicheck, Inc. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations constitutes managements review of the factors that affected our financial and operating performance for the three-month period ended March 31, 2023. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Overview We are a prominent technology company that is engaged in developing, integrating and marketing identity verification solutions to address challenges that include commercial retail and banking fraud prevention. Intellichecks products include solutions for preventing identity fraud across any industry delivered via smartphone, tablet, POS integration or other electronic devices. Critical Accounting Policies and the Use of Estimates The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. Significant estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the financial statements include impairment consideration and valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, deferred tax valuation allowances, allowance for doubtful accounts, revenue recognition (including breakage revenue), and the fair value of stock options under our stock-based compensation plans. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be different from those estimates. We believe that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amounts of revenue and the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. These significant accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, deferred taxes, goodwill and intangible asset valuation and impairment, and commitments and contingencies. These policies and our procedures related to these policies are summarized below and described in further detail in the Notes to Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments to measure credit losses on financial instruments, including trade receivables. The guidance eliminates the probable initial recognition threshold that was previously required prior to recognizing a credit loss on financial instruments. The credit loss estimate can now reflect an entitys current estimate of all future expected credit losses. Under the previous guidance, an entity only considered past events and current conditions. The guidance is effective for smaller reporting companies for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of certain amendments of this guidance must be applied on a modified retrospective basis and the adoption of the remaining amendments must be applied on a prospective basis. The Company concluded that the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on its financial statements because of the short-term nature of it's outstanding accounts receivable and there have been no significant forward-looking economic conditions identified by the company that would impact its short-term investments. 20 Index Goodwill The excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets of acquired businesses is considered goodwill. Under authoritative guidance, goodwill is not amortized, but rather it is periodically reviewed for impairment. We had goodwill of $8,102 as of March 31, 2023. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company performed its annual impairment test of goodwill in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Under authoritative guidance, the Company can use industry and Company specific qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that impairment exists before performing step one of the quantitative goodwill impairment test. An entity is not required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. Events or changes in circumstances which could trigger an impairment review include macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance, other entity specific events and sustained decrease in share price. We determined that no events occurred or circumstances changed during the three months ended March 31, 2023 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the Company below its carrying amounts. We will, however, continue to monitor our stock price and operations for any potential indicators of impairment. We will conduct the 2023 annual test for goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter, or at such time where an indicator of impairment appears to exist. Intangible Assets Our intangible assets consist of patents and a software license. We determined that no events occurred, or circumstances changed during the three months ended March 31, 2023 that would more likely than not reduce our intangible assets below our carrying amounts. We will, however, continue to monitor any potential indicators of impairment. See Note 5, Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Financial Statements for details on the Companys intangible assets. Revenue Recognition and Deferred Revenue SaaS fees and service revenues are generated from a combination of fixed-price and per-scan contracts. Under the per-scan revenue model, customers are charged a fee each time the customer scans an identity document, such as a drivers license, with our software. Under the fixed-price revenue model customers are charged a fixed monthly fee either per device or physical business location to access our software. In certain instances, customization services are determined to be essential to the functionality of the delivered software. Under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services. We measure revenue based on the consideration specified in a customer arrangement, and revenue is recognized when the performance obligations in an arrangement are satisfied. The Company adopted an additional revenue model where customers purchase a predetermined number of transactions for the term of the contract, where revenue for these transactions is recognized on a per transaction basis. The Company estimates the number of transactions that will be unused by the end of each contract period and recognized a portion of that revenue as breakage revenue each reporting period. Reference Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Financial Statements for additional details on the Companys recognized and deferred revenue. Stock-Based Compensation We account for the issuance of stock-based compensation awards to employees in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation Stock Compensation, which requires that the cost resulting from all stock-based compensation payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. This pronouncement establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for stock-based compensation payment arrangements and requires all companies to apply a fair value-based measurement method in accounting for all stock-based compensation payment transactions with employees. Reference Note 9, Stockholders' Equity, in the Notes to Financial Statements for details on the Companys stock-based compensation plans. 21 Index Deferred Income Taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and net operating loss carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We have recorded a full valuation allowance for our net deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2023, due to the uncertainty of our ability to realize those assets. Reference Note 8, Income Taxes, in the Notes to Financial Statements for details on the Companys income taxes. Commitments and Contingencies We are not currently involved in any legal or regulatory proceeding, or arbitration, the outcome of which is expected to have a material adverse effect on our business. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of our accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles, with no need for managements judgment in their application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. Results of Operations (All dollar amounts are rounded to thousands, except shares and per share data) COMPARISON OF THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2023 TO THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased $859, or 25%, to $4,254 compared to $3,395 for the same period of 2022. The increase in revenues is primarily the result of higher SaaS revenue growth for the current period. SaaS revenue, which consists of software licensed as a service on a subscription basis, increased $875 or 26% to $4,228 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $3,353 for the same period of 2022. Gross profit increased $843, or 27%, to $3,922 for three months ended March 31, 2023 from $3,079 for the same period of 2022. Our gross profit, as a percentage of revenues, was 92% and 91% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in gross profit percentage was driven by a higher concentration of SaaS revenues, a nominal decrease in hardware revenue, as well as an improved cloud cost structure. Operating expenses, which consist of selling, general and administrative and research and development expenses, increased $685, or 15%, to $5,232 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $4,547 for the same period of 2022. This increase was primarily driven by higher general and administrative costs, specifically headcount related expenses, as well as higher accounting and professional fees. As a result of the factors noted above, the Company had a net loss of $(1,316) for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to a net loss of $(1,468) for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $5,355, short-term investments of $4,881, working capital (defined as current assets minus current liabilities) of $8,752, total assets of $23,595 and stockholders equity of $17,830. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we generated net cash of $233 from operating activities as compared to net cash used in $(2,397) in the three months ended March 31, 2022. Cash used in investing activities was $(17) for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to cash used in investing activities of $(131) for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Cash used in financing activities was $(57) for the three months ended March 31, 2023. We currently anticipate that our available cash, expected cash from operations and availability under the revolving line of credit, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months from the date of filing. Reference Note 6, Debt, in the Notes to Financial Statements for details on the Companys revolving line of credit. 22 Index We keep the option open to raise additional funds to respond to business contingencies which may include the need to fund more rapid expansion, fund additional marketing expenditures, develop new markets for our technology, enhance our operating infrastructure, respond to competitive pressures, or acquire complementary businesses or necessary technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the additional funds when needed or obtain such on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. The specific terms of any future offering, including the prices and use of proceeds, will be determined at the time of any such offering and will be described in detail in a prospectus supplement which will be filed with the SEC at the time of the offering. We are not currently involved in any legal or regulatory proceeding, or arbitration, the outcome of which is expected to have a material effect on our business. Net Operating Loss Carry Forwards Our available net operating loss ("NOL") as of March 31, 2023 was approximately $20.3 million, of which $10.9 million expires between 2035 and 2037. In accordance with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act"), U.S. NOLs arising in a tax year ending after 2017 will not expire. Adjusted EBITDA and Use of a Non-GAAP Measure We use Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP financial performance measurement. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by adjusting net loss for certain reductions such as interest and other income (expense) and certain addbacks such as provisions for income taxes, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation expense. Adjusted EBITDA is provided to investors to supplement the results of operations reported in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that Adjusted EBITDA provides an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our financial results with other companies that also use Adjusted EBITDA in their communications to investors. By excluding non-cash charges such as gains on debt forgiveness, impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill, amortization, depreciation and stock-based compensation, as well as non-operating charges for interest and provisions for income taxes, investors can evaluate our operations and can compare the results on a more consistent basis to the results of other companies. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is one of the primary measures management uses to monitor and evaluate financial and operating results. We consider Adjusted EBITDA to be an important indicator of our operational strength and performance of our business and a useful measure of our historical operating trends. However, there are significant limitations to the use of Adjusted EBITDA since it excludes gains on debt forgiveness, provisions for income taxes, interest and other (expense) income, impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill, stock-based compensation expense, all of which impact our profitability, as well as depreciation and amortization related to the use of long-term assets which benefit multiple periods. We believe that these limitations are compensated by providing Adjusted EBITDA only with GAAP net loss and clearly identifying the difference between the two measures. Consequently, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net loss presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA as defined by us may not be comparable with similarly named measures provided by other companies. 23 Index The reconciliation of GAAP net loss to Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net loss $ (1,316) $ (1,468) Reconciling items: Provision for income taxes 7 Interest and other expense (income) (1) Depreciation and amortization 70 69 Stock-based compensation including liability classified awards 682 592 Adjusted EBITDA $ (558) $ (807) Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements and have not established any special purpose entities. We have not guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities or entered into any options on non-financial assets.