Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Overview -- New Accounting Guidance. This and other potential changes in reporting standards could substantially change our reporting practices in a number of areas, including revenue recognition and recording of assets and liabilities, and affect our reported financial condition or results of operations. Currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues or increase the U.S. dollar cost of our activities and international strategic investments. We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which may change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. We operate and invest globally. Adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: If the effective price of products sold by our licensees were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty revenues. Assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries may be subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported earnings. Our exposure to foreign currencies may increase as we expand into new markets. Certain of our operating and investing costs, such as foreign patent prosecution, are based in foreign currencies. If these costs are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, strengthening currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our near-term operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. In addition, continued strengthening of currency values in selected regions over an extended period of time could adversely affect our future operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated. These attempts, which in some cases could be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but, in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. While we have not identified any material incidents of unauthorized access to date, the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business or personal information could harm our competitive or negotiating positions, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives, compromise our patent enforcement strategies or outlook, damage our reputation or otherwise adversely affect our business. In addition, to the extent that any future security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our employees, licensees, or customers confidential and /or personal information, we may incur liability or additional costs to remedy any damages caused by such 19 Table of Contents breach. We could also be impacted by existing and proposed laws and regulations, as well as government policies and practices related to cybersecurity, privacy and data protection. If wireless handsets are perceived to pose health and safety risks, demand for products of our licensees could decrease. Media reports and certain studies have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to health concerns, such as brain tumors, other malignancies and genetic damage to blood, and may interfere with electronic medical devices, such as pacemakers, telemetry and delicate medical equipment. Growing concerns over radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, could discourage the use of wireless handsets and cause a decrease in demand for the products of our licensees. In addition, concerns over safety risks posed by the use of wireless handsets while driving and the effect of any resulting legislation could reduce demand for the products of our licensees. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and the Notes The price of our common stock is volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance. Historically, we have had large fluctuations in the price of our common stock, and such fluctuations could continue. From January 3, 2013 to February 17, 2016, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $26.25 per share to a high of $60.69 per share. The market price for our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: the public's response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC and announcements relating to licensing, technology development, litigation, arbitration and other legal proceedings in which we are involved and intellectual property impacting us or our business; announcements concerning strategic transactions, such as commercial initiatives, joint ventures, strategic investments, acquisitions or divestitures; financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; changes in financial estimates or ratings by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our common stock; investor perceptions as to the likelihood of achievement of near-term goals; changes in market share of significant licensees; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other wireless communications companies generally; and market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. Our increased indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under such indebtedness. Our total indebtedness as of December 31, 2015 was approximately $546.0 million. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our 2.50% Senior Convertible Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes) and our 1.50% Senior Convertible Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes and, together with the 2016 Notes, the "Notes"); reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the Notes. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under the Notes depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment 20 Table of Contents obligations under the Notes and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including the Notes, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under the Notes, and this default could cause us to be in default on any other currently existing or future outstanding indebtedness. Our stockholders may not receive the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or any dividend at all, and any decrease in or suspension of the dividend could cause our stock price to decline. Our current dividend policy, contemplates the payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share on our outstanding common stock. We expect to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock at the rate set forth in our current dividend policy. However, the dividend policy and the payment and timing of future cash dividends under the policy are subject to the final determination each quarter by our Board of Directors that (i) the dividend will be made in compliance with laws applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends, including Section 1551(b) of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law, and (ii) the policy remains in our best interests, which determination will be based on a number of factors, including our earnings, financial condition, capital resources and capital requirements, alternative uses of capital, restrictions imposed by any existing debt, economic conditions and other factors considered relevant by the Board of Directors. Given these considerations, our Board of Directors may increase or decrease the amount of the dividend at any time and may also decide to vary the timing of or suspend or discontinue the payment of cash dividends in the future. Any decrease in the amount of the dividend, or suspension or discontinuance of payment of a dividend, could cause our stock price to decline. If securities or industry analysts fail to continue publishing research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the offering of the Notes may affect the value of the Notes and the market price of our common stock. In connection with each offering of the Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions (the option counterparties) and sold warrants to the option counterparties. These transactions will be accounted for as an adjustment to our stockholders equity. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected to reduce the potential equity dilution upon conversion of the Notes. The warrants will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. In connection with establishing their initial hedge of these transactions, the option counterparties (and/or their affiliates) purchased our common stock in open market transactions and/or privately negotiated transactions and/or entered various cash-settled derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly after, the pricing of the Notes. These activities could have the effect of increasing (or reducing the size of any decrease in) the price of our common stock concurrently with or following the pricing of the Notes. In addition, the option counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may modify their respective hedge positions from time to time (including during any observation period related to a conversion of the Notes) by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or by purchasing or selling our common stock in open market transactions and/ or privately negotiated transactions. The potential effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales or other dilution of our equity could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We also have several institutional stockholders that own significant blocks of our common stock. If one or more of these stockholders were to sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. 21 Table of Contents Under certain circumstances, shares of our common stock could be issued upon conversion of the Notes, which would dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. In addition, the issuance of additional common stock, or issuances of securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock or other equity linked securities, including preferred stock or warrants, would dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders and could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Approved stock repurchase programs may not result in a positive return of capital to stockholders. Our board-approved stock repurchase program may not return value to stockholders because the market price of the stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Stock repurchase programs are intended to deliver stockholder value over the long term, but stock price fluctuations can reduce the effectiveness of such programs. Provisions of the Notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of the Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their Notes or any portion of the principal amount of such Notes in integral multiples of $1,000. We may also be required to issue additional shares upon conversion in the event of certain fundamental change transactions. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. The option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that the option counterparties may default under the respective convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties is not secured by any collateral. Recent global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in our common stock market price and in volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurance as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties. The accounting method for convertible debt securities, such as the Notes, could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. In May 2008, the FASB, issued ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments, such as the Notes, that may be settled partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuers economic interest cost. ASC 470-20 requires the fair value of the conversion option of the Notes be reported as a component of stockholders equity and included in the additional paid-in-capital on our consolidated balance sheet. The value of the conversion option of the Notes will be reported as discount to the Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current periods amortization of the debt discount (non-cash interest) and the instruments cash interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. Item 2. PROPERTIES. Our headquarters are located in Wilmington, Delaware, USA. Our research and development activities are conducted primarily in facilities located in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, USA; Melville, New York, USA; San Diego, California, USA; and Montreal, Quebec, Canada. During second quarter 2015, we sold our facility in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, to a third party and entered into a limited leaseback arrangement for a period not to exceed one year. We expect to transfer the personnel and research and development activities currently performed in the King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, facility to a leased facility in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, in second quarter 2016. The following table sets forth information with respect to our principal properties: 22 Table of Contents Location Approximate Square Feet Principal Use Lease Expiration Date Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 30,300 Administrative office and research space October 2026* King of Prussia, Pennsylvania 32,000 Administrative office and research space May 2016* Melville, New York 44,800 Administrative office and research space February 2020 Wilmington, Delaware 36,200 Corporate headquarters November 2022 Montreal, Quebec 17,300 Office and research space June 2021 San Diego, California 11,800 Office and research space April 2018 * As discussed above, we expect to move from the King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, facility to the Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, facility in second quarter 2016. We are also a party to leases for several smaller spaces, including our offices in London, England, United Kingdom, and Seoul, South Korea that contain office and research space. In addition, we own a building in Washington, District of Columbia, USA, that houses administrative office space. We believe that the facilities described above are suitable and adequate for our present purposes and our needs in the near future. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. ARBITRATIONS AND COURT PROCEEDINGS (OTHER THAN DE DISTRICT COURT ACTIONS RELATED TO USITC PROCEEDINGS) Huawei Arbitration On December 23, 2013, InterDigital and Huawei agreed to engage in an expedited binding arbitration to resolve their licensing disputes. Pursuant to their agreement, on April 9, 2014, InterDigital and Huawei initiated an arbitration with the International Court of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) jointly seeking a determination by an arbitral tribunal of FRAND royalty terms and conditions to be included in a binding worldwide patent license agreement to take effect upon issuance of the arbitration award. An arbitration hearing was held on January 12-16, 2015. On May 26, 2015, the panel convened by the ICC delivered a confidential partial award. The panel convened by the ICC delivered a confidential final award dated July 14, 2015. On July 9, 2015, InterDigital filed a petition in the District Court for the Southern District of New York for an order confirming the arbitration award (the New York Proceeding). On the same day, Huawei filed an action in the Paris Court of Appeal requesting annulment of the arbitration award (the Paris Proceeding). On July 24, 2015, Huawei opposed InterDigitals petition in the New York Proceeding and filed a motion to stay the New York Proceeding pending the Paris Proceeding. On August 14, 2015, InterDigital amended its petition in the New York Proceeding to take into account the issuance of the arbitration panels final award. A hearing in the New York Proceeding was held on February 16, 2016. On February 17, 2016, the judge notified the parties that he had rendered a decision on Huaweis motion to stay the New York Proceeding, finding that the New York Proceeding should be stayed pending the Paris Proceeding, subject to a requirement that Huawei post suitable security, pursuant to Article VI of the New York Convention, in the amount of the final award, together with interest. The stay is subject to revision should circumstances change, and InterDigital can renew its petition for an order confirming the award after the outcome of the Paris Proceeding is determined. Huawei filed its brief seeking annulment in the Paris Proceeding on July 24, 2015. A hearing in the Paris Proceeding is scheduled for March 8, 2016. To date, Huawei has not made any payments under the arbitration award. We will recognize any related revenue in the period in which the amount of revenue is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. 23 Table of Contents Huawei China Proceedings On February 21, 2012, InterDigital was served with two complaints filed by Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. in the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court in China on December 5, 2011. The first complaint named as defendants InterDigital, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Technology Corporation and InterDigital Communications, LLC (now InterDigital Communications, Inc.), and alleged that InterDigital had abused its dominant market position in the market for the licensing of essential patents owned by InterDigital by engaging in allegedly unlawful practices, including differentiated pricing, tying and refusal to deal. The second complaint named as defendants the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Technology Corporation, InterDigital Communications, LLC (now InterDigital Communications, Inc.), InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc. and IPR Licensing, Inc. and alleged that InterDigital had failed to negotiate on FRAND terms with Huawei. Huawei asked the court to determine the FRAND rate for licensing essential Chinese patents to Huawei and also sought compensation for its costs associated with this matter. On February 4, 2013, the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court issued rulings in the two proceedings. With respect to the first complaint, the court decided that InterDigital had violated the Chinese Anti-Monopoly Law by (i) making proposals for royalties from Huawei that the court believed were excessive, (ii) tying the licensing of essential patents to the licensing of non-essential patents, (iii) requesting as part of its licensing proposals that Huawei provide a grant-back of certain patent rights to InterDigital and (iv) commencing a USITC action against Huawei while still in discussions with Huawei for a license. Based on these findings, the court ordered InterDigital to cease the alleged excessive pricing and alleged improper bundling of InterDigital's Chinese essential and non-essential patents, and to pay Huawei 20.0 million RMB (approximately $3.2 million) in damages related to attorneys fees and other charges, without disclosing a factual basis for its determination of damages. The court dismissed Huawei's remaining allegations, including Huawei's claim that InterDigital improperly sought a worldwide license and improperly sought to bundle the licensing of essential patents on multiple generations of technologies. With respect to the second complaint, the court determined that, despite the fact that the FRAND requirement originates from ETSI's Intellectual Property Rights policy, which refers to French law, InterDigital's license offers to Huawei should be evaluated under Chinese law. Under Chinese law, the court concluded that the offers did not comply with FRAND. The court further ruled that the royalties to be paid by Huawei for InterDigital's 2G, 3G and 4G essential Chinese patents under Chinese law should not exceed 0.019% of the actual sales price of each Huawei product. On March 11, 2013, InterDigital filed notices of appeal with respect to the judgments in both proceedings, seeking reversal of the courts February 4, 2013 rulings. On October 16, 2013, the Guangdong Province High Court issued a ruling affirming the ruling of the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court in the second proceeding, and on October 21, 2013, issued a ruling affirming the ruling of the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court in the first proceeding. InterDigital believes that the decisions are seriously flawed both legally and factually. For instance, in determining a purported FRAND rate, the Chinese courts applied an incorrect economic analysis by evaluating InterDigitals lump-sum patent license agreement with Apple in hindsight to posit a running royalty rate. Indeed, the ALJ in USITC Inv. No. 337-TA-800 rejected that type of improper analysis. Moreover, the Chinese courts had an incomplete record and applied incorrect facts, including with respect to InterDigitals now-expired license agreement with Apple, which had been found in an arbitration between InterDigital and Apple to be limited in scope. On April 14, 2014, InterDigital filed a petition for retrial of the second proceeding with the Chinese Supreme Peoples Court (SPC), seeking dismissal of the judgment or at least a higher, market-based royalty rate for a license to InterDigitals Chinese standards-essential patents (SEPs). The petition for retrial argues, for example, that (1) the lower court improperly determined a Chinese FRAND running royalty rate by using as a benchmark the Apple lump sum fixed payment license agreement, and looking in hindsight at the unexpectedly successful sales of Apple iPhones to construct an artificial running royalty rate that neither InterDigital nor Apple could have intended and that would have varied significantly depending on the relative success or failure in hindsight of Apple iPhone sales; (2) the Apple license agreement was also an inappropriate benchmark because its scope of product coverage was significantly limited as compared to the license that the court was considering for Huawei, particularly when there are other more comparable license agreements; and (3) if the appropriate benchmarks had been used, and the court had considered the range of royalties offered by other similarly situated SEP holders in the wireless telecommunications industry, the court would have determined a FRAND royalty that was substantially higher than 0.019%, and would have found, consistent with findings of the ALJs initial determination in the USITC 337-TA-800 proceeding, that there was no proof that InterDigitals offers to Huawei violated its FRAND commitments. The SPC held a hearing on October 31, 2014, regarding whether to grant a retrial and requested that both parties provide additional information regarding the facts and legal theories underlying the case. The SPC convened a second hearing on April 1, 2015 regarding whether to grant a retrial. InterDigital continues to provide additional information to the SPC in support of its petition for retrial. If the retrial is granted, the SPC will likely schedule one or more additional hearings before it issues a decision on the merits of the case. 24 Table of Contents ZTE China Proceedings On July 10 and 11, 2014, InterDigital was served with two complaints filed by ZTE Corporation in the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court in China on April 3, 2014. The first complaint names as defendants the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Technology Corporation, InterDigital Communications, Inc., InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc. and IPR Licensing, Inc. This complaint alleges that InterDigital has failed to comply with its FRAND obligations for the licensing of its Chinese standards-essential patents. ZTE is asking the court to determine the FRAND rate for licensing InterDigitals standards-essential Chinese patents to ZTE and also seeks compensation for its litigation costs associated with this matter. The second complaint names as defendants InterDigital, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Technology Corporation and InterDigital Communications, Inc. This complaint alleges that InterDigital has a dominant market position in China and the United States in the market for the licensing of essential patents owned by InterDigital, and abused its dominant market position in violation of the Chinese Anti-Monopoly Law by engaging in allegedly unlawful practices, including excessively high pricing, tying, discriminatory treatment, and imposing unreasonable trading conditions. ZTE seeks relief in the amount of 20.0 million RMB (approximately $3.1 million based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2015), an order requiring InterDigital to cease the allegedly unlawful conduct and compensation for its litigation costs associated with this matter. On August 7, 2014, InterDigital filed petitions challenging the jurisdiction of the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court to hear the actions. On August 28, 2014, the court denied InterDigitals jurisdictional challenge with respect to the anti-monopoly law case. InterDigital filed an appeal of this decision on September 26, 2014. On September 28, 2014, the court denied InterDigitals jurisdictional challenge with respect to the FRAND case, and InterDigital filed an appeal of that decision on October 27, 2014. On December 18, 2014, the Guangdong High Court issued decisions on both appeals upholding the Shenzhen Intermediate Courts decisions that it had jurisdiction to hear these cases. On February 10, 2015, InterDigital filed a petition for retrial with the Supreme Peoples Court regarding its jurisdictional challenges to both cases. The Shenzhen Court held hearings on the anti-monopoly law case on May 11, 13, 15 and 18, 2015. At the May hearings, ZTE withdrew its claims alleging discriminatory treatment and the imposition of unfair trading conditions and increased its damages claim to 99.8 million RMB (approximately $15.4 million based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2015). The Shenzhen Court held hearings in the FRAND case on July 29-31, 2015 and held a second hearing on the anti-monopoly law case on October 12, 2015. It is possible that the court may schedule further hearings in these cases before issuing its decisions. LG Arbitration On March 19, 2012, LG Electronics, Inc. filed a demand for arbitration against the Companys wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Technology Corporation, IPR Licensing, Inc. and InterDigital Communications, LLC (now InterDigital Communications, Inc.) with the American Arbitration Associations International Centre for Dispute Resolution (ICDR), initiating an arbitration in Washington, D.C. LG sought a declaration that it held a continuing license to certain technology owned by InterDigital under the parties patent license agreement dated January 1, 2006 (the 2006 LG PLA). On April 18, 2012, InterDigital filed an Answering Statement objecting to the jurisdiction of the ICDR on the ground that LGs claims are not arbitrable, and denying all claims made by LG in its demand for arbitration. The issue of whether LGs claim to arbitrability is wholly groundless was appealed to the Federal Circuit. On June 7, 2013, the Federal Circuit issued an opinion holding that the USITC erred in terminating USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800) as to LG because there is no plausible argument that the parties dispute in this case arose under their patent license agreement and finding that LGs assertion of arbitrability was wholly groundless. The Federal Circuit reversed the USITCs order terminating the USITC proceeding as to LG and remanded to the USITC for further proceedings. On June 25, 2013, the arbitration tribunal granted the parties joint request to stay the arbitration pending the exhaustion of all appellate rights from the Federal Circuits decision. As noted above, LG filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court challenging the Federal Circuits ruling on December 31, 2013, and on April 21, 2014, the Supreme Court granted LGs petition, vacating the underlying Federal Circuit decision and remanding the case to the Federal Circuit with instructions to dismiss the case as moot (in light of InterDigitals decision to terminate the 337-TA-800 investigation as to LG). On June 9, 2014, the arbitration tribunal lifted the temporary stay at the request of the parties. The arbitration tribunal held an evidentiary hearing on July 20-22, 2015 and a supplemental oral argument on October 19, 2015. On December 29, 2015, the arbitration tribunal issued its final award. Rejecting LGs arguments, the arbitration tribunal found that LGs license with respect to 3G products under the 2006 LG PLA had terminated as of December 31, 2010, at the expiration of the 2006 LG PLAs five-year term, and that only LGs paid-up license with respect to 2G-only products survived the expiration of the term. On February 5, 2016, InterDigital filed a petition in the District Court for the Southern District of New York for an order confirming the arbitration award. 25 Table of Contents Pegatron Actions In first quarter 2015, we learned that on or about February 3, 2015, Pegatron Corporation (Pegatron), one of our licensees, filed a civil suit in Taiwan Intellectual Property Court against InterDigital, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries alleging breach of the Taiwan Fair Trade Act (the Pegatron Taiwan Action). On May 26, 2015, InterDigital, Inc. received a copy of the civil complaint filed by Pegatron in the Taiwan Intellectual Property Court. The complaint named as defendants InterDigital, Inc. as well as InterDigitals wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Technology Corporation and IPR Licensing, Inc. (together, for purposes of this discussion, InterDigital). The complaint alleged that InterDigital abused its market power by improperly setting, maintaining or changing the royalties Pegatron is required to pay under their 2008 patent license agreement (the Pegatron PLA), and engaging in unreasonable discriminatory treatment and other unfair competition activities in violation of the Taiwan Fair Trade Act. The complaint sought minimum damages in the amount of approximately $52 million, which amount could be expanded during the litigation, and that the court order multiple damages based on its claim that the alleged conduct was intentional. The complaint also sought an order requiring InterDigital to cease enforcing the royalty provisions of the Pegatron PLA, as well as all other conduct that allegedly violates the Fair Trade Act. On June 5, 2015 InterDigital filed an Arbitration Demand with the American Arbitration Associations International Centre for Dispute Resolution (ICDR) seeking declaratory relief denying all of the claims in Pegatrons Taiwan Action and for breach of contract. On or about June 10, 2015, InterDigital filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, San Jose Division (the CA Northern District Court) seeking a Temporary Restraining Order, Preliminary Injunction, and Permanent Anti-suit Injunction against Pegatron prohibiting Pegatron from prosecuting the Pegatron Taiwan Action. The complaint also seeks specific performance by Pegatron of the dispute resolution procedures set forth in the Pegatron PLA and compelling arbitration of the disputes in the Pegatron Taiwan Action. On June 29, 2015, the court granted InterDigitals motion for a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction requiring Pegatron to take immediate steps to dismiss the Taiwan Action without prejudice. On July 1, 2015, InterDigital was informed that Pegatron had withdrawn its complaint in the Taiwan Intellectual Property Court and that the case had been dismissed without prejudice. On August 3, 2015, Pegatron filed an answer and counterclaims to InterDigitals CA Northern District Court complaint. Pegatron accused InterDigital of violating multiple sections of the Taiwan Fair Trade Act, violating Section Two of the Sherman Act, breaching ETSI, IEEE, and ITU contracts, promissory estoppel (pled in the alternative), violating Section 17200 of the California Business & Professions Code, and violating the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act. These counterclaims stem from Pegatrons accusation that InterDigital violated FRAND obligations. As relief, Pegatron seeks a declaration regarding the appropriate FRAND terms and conditions for InterDigitals declared essential patents, a declaration that InterDigitals standard essential patents are unenforceable due to patent misuse, an order requiring InterDigital to grant Pegatron a license on FRAND terms, an order enjoining InterDigitals alleged ongoing breaches of its FRAND commitments, and damages in the amount of allegedly excess non-FRAND royalties Pegatron has paid to InterDigital, plus interest and treble damages. On August 7, 2015, Pegatron responded to InterDigitals arbitration demand, disputing the arbitrability of Pegatrons claims. On September 24, 2015, InterDigital moved to compel arbitration and dismiss Pegatrons counterclaims or, in the alternative, stay the counterclaims pending the parties arbitration. Pegatrons opposition to this motion was filed on October 22, 2015, and InterDigitals reply was filed on November 12, 2015. On January 20, 2016, the court granted InterDigitals motion to compel arbitration of Pegatrons counterclaims and to stay the counterclaims pending the arbitrators determination of their arbitrability. On January 27, 2016, the parties stipulated to stay all remaining aspects of the CA Northern District case pending such an arbitrability determination. On the same day, the court granted the stay and administratively closed the case. Microsoft Sherman Act Delaware Proceedings On August 20, 2015, Microsoft Mobile, Inc. and MMO (collectively Microsoft) filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against InterDigital, Inc., InterDigital Communications, Inc., InterDigital Technology Corporation, InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc., InterDigital Holdings, Inc., and IPR Licensing, Inc. The complaint alleges that InterDigital has monopolized relevant markets for 3G and 4G cellular technology in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act. As relief, Microsoft seeks declaratory judgments that InterDigital has violated Section 2 of the Sherman Act, that each of InterDigitals U.S. patents declared by it to be Essential to the 3G and 4G standards is unenforceable, and that all agreements InterDigital has entered into in furtherance of its alleged unlawful conduct are void. Microsoft also seeks an award of treble damages and the following injunctive relief: requiring InterDigital to grant Microsoft a non-confidential license to its U.S. standards essential patents (SEPs) on FRAND terms as determined by a court, requiring InterDigital to disclose to Microsoft the terms of its other SEP licenses, preventing InterDigital from enforcing any exclusion orders it might receive with respect to its SEPs, and requiring InterDigital to re-assign any declared SEPs that it has assigned to controlled entities. On November 4, 2015, InterDigital filed a motion to dismiss and to strike Microsofts complaint. InterDigital asserts that Microsoft failed to (i) state a Sherman Act claim, (ii) adequately allege the essential elements of monopoly power and 26 Table of Contents exclusionary conduct, (iii) plead its fraud claims with specificity, and (iv) plead any cognizable antitrust injury. InterDigital also claimed that Microsofts complaint is barred by the Noerr-Pennington doctrine and that the court should strike Microsofts improper prayers for relief and damages arising prior to the applicable statute of limitations. A hearing on this motion is scheduled for March 1, 2016. REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS Investigation by Taiwan Fair Trade Commission On December 6, 2013, InterDigital received notice from the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission (TFTC) that the TFTC had initiated an investigation to examine alleged anti-competitive behavior under Taiwans Fair Trade Act (FTA). Companies found to violate the FTA may be ordered to cease and rectify the unlawful conduct, take other necessary corrective action, and/or pay an administrative fine. InterDigital is fully cooperating with the TFTCs investigation. Investigation by National Development and Reform Commission of China On September 23, 2013, counsel for InterDigital was informed by Chinas National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) that the NDRC had initiated a formal investigation into whether InterDigital has violated Chinas Anti-Monopoly Law (AML) with respect to practices related to the licensing of InterDigitals standards-essential patents to Chinese companies. Companies found to violate the AML may be subject to a cease and desist order, fines and disgorgement of any illegal gains. On March 3, 2014, the Company submitted to NDRC, pursuant to a procedure set out in the AML, a formal application for suspension of the investigation that included proposed commitments by the Company. On May 22, 2014, NDRC formally suspended its investigation of the Company based on the commitments proposed by the Company. The Companys commitments with respect to the licensing of its patent portfolio for wireless mobile standards to Chinese manufacturers of cellular terminal units ("Chinese Manufacturers") are as follows: 1. Whenever InterDigital engages with a Chinese Manufacturer to license InterDigital's patent portfolio for 2G, 3G and 4G wireless mobile standards, InterDigital will offer such Chinese Manufacturer the option of taking a worldwide portfolio license of only its standards-essential wireless patents, and comply with F/RAND principles when negotiating and entering into such licensing agreements with Chinese Manufacturers. 2. As part of its licensing offer, InterDigital will not require that a Chinese Manufacturer agree to a royalty-free, reciprocal cross-license of such Chinese Manufacturer's similarly categorized standards-essential wireless patents. 3. Prior to commencing any action against a Chinese Manufacturer in which InterDigital may seek exclusionary or injunctive relief for the infringement of any of its wireless standards-essential patents, InterDigital will offer such Chinese Manufacturer the option to enter into expedited binding arbitration under fair and reasonable procedures to resolve the royalty rate and other terms of a worldwide license under InterDigital's wireless standards-essential patents. If the Chinese Manufacturer accepts InterDigital's binding arbitration offer or otherwise enters into an agreement with InterDigital on a binding arbitration mechanism, InterDigital will, in accordance with the terms of the arbitration agreement and patent license agreement, refrain from seeking exclusionary or injunctive relief against such company. The commitments contained in item 3 above will expire five years from the effective date of the suspension of the investigation, or May 22, 2019. USITC PROCEEDINGS AND RELATED DELAWARE DISTRICT COURT PROCEEDINGS Nokia and ZTE 2013 USITC Proceeding (337-TA-868) and Related Delaware District Court Proceedings USITC Proceeding (337-TA-868) On January 2, 2013, the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Communications, Inc., InterDigital Technology Corporation, IPR Licensing, Inc. and InterDigital Holdings, Inc. filed a complaint with the United States International Trade Commission (the USITC or Commission) against Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Samsung Electronics America, Inc. and Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC, Nokia Corporation and Nokia Inc., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Huawei Device USA, Inc. and FutureWei Technologies, Inc. d/b/a Huawei Technologies (USA) and ZTE Corporation and ZTE (USA) Inc. (collectively, the 337-TA-868 Respondents), alleging violations of Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 in that they engaged in unfair trade practices by selling for importation into the United States, importing into the United States and/or selling after importation into the United States certain 3G and 4G wireless devices (including WCDMA-, cdma2000- and LTE-capable mobile phones, USB sticks, mobile hotspots, laptop computers and tablets and components of such devices) 27 Table of Contents that infringe one or more of up to seven of InterDigital's U.S. patents. The complaint also extended to certain WCDMA and cdma2000 devices incorporating Wi-Fi functionality. InterDigital's complaint with the USITC sought an exclusion order that would bar from entry into the United States infringing 3G or 4G wireless devices (and components), including LTE devices, that are imported by or on behalf of the 337-TA-868 Respondents, and also sought a cease-and-desist order to bar further sales of infringing products that have already been imported into the United States. Certain of the asserted patents were also asserted against Nokia, Huawei and ZTE in earlier pending USITC proceedings (including the Nokia, Huawei and ZTE 2011 USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800) and the Nokia 2007 USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613), as set forth below) and therefore were not asserted against those 337-TA-868 Respondents in this investigation. On December 23, 2013, InterDigital and Huawei reached a settlement agreement to enter into binding arbitration to resolve their global patent licensing disputes (see "Huawei Arbitration" below). Pursuant to the settlement agreement, InterDigital and Huawei moved to dismiss all litigation matters pending between the parties except the action filed by Huawei in China to set a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory (FRAND) rate for the licensing of InterDigitals Chinese standards-essential patents (discussed below under Huawei China Proceedings), the decision in which InterDigital is permitted to further appeal. As a result, effective February 12, 2014, the Huawei Respondents were terminated from the 337-TA-868 investigation. From February 10 to February 20, 2014, ALJ Essex presided over the evidentiary hearing in this investigation. The patents in issue in this investigation as of the hearing were U.S. Patent Nos. 7,190,966 (the 966 patent) and 7,286,847 (the 847 patent) asserted against ZTE and Samsung, and U.S. Patent No. 7,941,151 (the 151 patent) asserted against ZTE, Samsung and Nokia. On June 3, 2014, InterDigital and Samsung filed a joint motion to terminate the investigation as to Samsung on the basis of settlement. The ALJ granted the joint motion by initial determination issued on June 9, 2014, and the USITC determined not to review the initial determination on June 30, 2014. On June 13, 2014, the ALJ issued an Initial Determination (ID) in the 337-TA-868 investigation. In the ID, the ALJ found that no violation of Section 337 had occurred in connection with the importation of 3G/4G devices by ZTE or Nokia, on the basis that the accused devices do not infringe asserted claims 1-6, 8-9, 16-21 or 23-24 of the 151 patent, claims 1, 3, 6, 8, 9, or 11 of the 966 patent, or claims 3 or 5 of the 847 patent. The ALJ also found that claim 16 of the 151 patent was invalid as indefinite. Among other determinations, the ALJ further determined that InterDigital did not violate any FRAND obligations, a conclusion also reached by the ALJ in the 337-TA-800 investigation, and that Respondents have engaged in patent hold out. On June 30, 2014, InterDigital filed a Petition for Review with the USITC seeking review and reversal of certain of the ALJs conclusions in the ID. On the same day, Respondents filed a Conditional Petition for Review urging alternative grounds for affirmance of the IDs finding that Section 337 was not violated and a Conditional Petition for Review with respect to FRAND issues. In June 2014, Microsoft Mobile Oy (MMO) was added as a respondent in the investigation. On August 14, 2014, the Commission determined to review in part the June 13, 2014 ID but terminated the investigation with a finding of no violation. On October 10, 2014, InterDigital filed a petition for review with the Federal Circuit, appealing certain of the adverse determinations in the Commissions August 8, 2014 final determination including those related to the 966 and 847 patents. On June 2, 2015, InterDigital moved to voluntarily dismiss the Federal Circuit appeal, because, even if it were to prevail, it did not believe there would be sufficient time following the courts decision and mandate for the USITC to complete its proceedings on remand such that the accused products would be excluded before the 966 and 847 patents expire in June 2016. The court granted the motion and dismissed the appeal on June 18, 2015. Related Delaware District Court Proceedings On January 2, 2013, the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Communications, Inc., InterDigital Technology Corporation, IPR Licensing, Inc. and InterDigital Holdings, Inc. filed four related district court actions in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware (the Delaware District Court) against the 337-TA-868 Respondents. These complaints allege that each of the defendants infringes the same patents with respect to the same products alleged in the complaint filed by InterDigital in USITC Proceeding (337-TA-868). The complaints seek permanent injunctions and compensatory damages in an amount to be determined, as well as enhanced damages based on willful infringement, and recovery of reasonable attorneys' fees and costs. 28 Table of Contents On January 24, 2013, Huawei filed its answer and counterclaims to InterDigital's Delaware District Court complaint. Huawei asserted counterclaims for breach of contract, equitable estoppel, waiver of right to enjoin and declarations that InterDigital has not offered or granted Huawei licenses on FRAND terms, declarations seeking the determination of FRAND terms and declarations of noninfringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the asserted patents. In addition to the declaratory relief specified in its counterclaims, Huawei seeks specific performance of InterDigital's purported contracts with Huawei and standards-setting organizations, appropriate damages in an amount to be determined at trial, reasonable attorneys' fees and such other relief as the court may deem appropriate. On January 31, 2013, ZTE filed its answer and counterclaims to InterDigital's Delaware District Court complaint; ZTE asserted counterclaims for breach of contract, equitable estoppel, waiver of right to enjoin and declarations that InterDigital has not offered ZTE licenses on FRAND terms, declarations seeking the determination of FRAND terms and declarations of noninfringement, invalidity and unenforceability. In addition to the declaratory relief specified in its counterclaims, ZTE seeks specific performance of InterDigital's purported contracts with ZTE and standards-setting organizations, appropriate damages in an amount to be determined at trial, reasonable attorneys' fees and such other relief as the court may deem appropriate. On February 28, 2013, Nokia filed its answer and counterclaims to InterDigital's Delaware District Court complaint, and then amended its answer and counterclaims on March 5, 2013. Nokia asserted counterclaims for breach of contract, breach of implied contract, unfair competition under Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code 17200, equitable estoppel, a declaration setting FRAND terms and conditions, a declaration that InterDigital is estopped from seeking an exclusion order based on its U.S. declared-essential patents, a declaration of patent misuse, a declaration that InterDigital has failed to offer FRAND terms, a declaration that Nokia has an implied license to the asserted patents, and declarations of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability. In addition to the declaratory relief specified in its counterclaims, Nokia seeks an order that InterDigital specifically perform its purported contracts by not seeking a USITC exclusion order for its essential patents and by granting Nokia a license on FRAND terms and conditions, an injunction preventing InterDigital from participating in a USITC investigation based on essential patents, appropriate damages in an amount to be determined, including all attorneys fees and costs spent in participating in all three USITC Investigations (337-TA-868, 337-TA-800 and 337-TA-613), and any other relief as the court may deem just and proper. On March 13, 2013, InterDigital filed an amended Delaware District Court complaint against Nokia and Samsung, respectively, to assert allegations of infringement of the recently issued '244 patent. On April 1, 2013, Nokia filed its answer and counterclaims to InterDigitals amended Delaware District Court complaint. On April 24, 2013, Samsung filed its answer and a counterclaim to InterDigital's amended Delaware District Court complaint. On March 21, 2013, pursuant to stipulation, the Delaware District Court granted InterDigital leave to file an amended complaint against Huawei and ZTE, respectively, to assert allegations of infringement of the '244 patent. On March 22, 2013, Huawei and ZTE filed their respective answers and counterclaims to InterDigitals amended Delaware District Court complaint. On April 9, 2013, InterDigital filed a motion to dismiss Huaweis and ZTEs counterclaims relating to their FRAND allegations. On April 22, 2013, InterDigital filed a motion to dismiss Nokias counterclaims relating to its FRAND allegations. On July 12, 2013, the Delaware District Court held a hearing on InterDigitals motions to dismiss. By order issued the same day, the Delaware District Court granted InterDigitals motions, dismissing counterclaims for equitable estoppel, implied license, waiver of the right to injunction or exclusionary relief, and violation of California Bus. & Prof. Code 17200 with prejudice. It further dismissed the counterclaims for breach of contract and declaratory relief related to InterDigitals FRAND commitments with leave to amend. On August 6, 2013, Huawei, Nokia, and ZTE filed answers and amended counterclaims for breach of contract and for declaratory judgments seeking determination of FRAND terms. The counterclaims also continue to seek declarations of noninfringement, invalidity, and unenforceability. Nokia also continued to assert a counterclaim for a declaration of patent misuse. On August 30, 2013, InterDigital filed a motion to dismiss the declaratory judgment counterclaims relating to the request for determination of FRAND terms. On May 28, 2014, the court granted InterDigitals motion and dismissed defendants FRAND-related declaratory judgment counterclaims, ruling that such declaratory judgments would serve no useful purpose. On December 30, 2013, InterDigital and Huawei filed a stipulation of dismissal on account of the confidential settlement agreement and agreement to arbitrate their disputes in this action. On the same day, the Delaware District Court granted the stipulation of dismissal. On February 11, 2014, the Delaware District Court judge entered an InterDigital, Nokia, and ZTE stipulated Amended Scheduling Order that bifurcated issues relating to damages, FRAND-related affirmative defenses, and any FRAND-related counterclaims. 29 Table of Contents On August 28, 2014, the court granted in part a motion by InterDigital for summary judgment that the asserted 151 patent is not unenforceable by reason of inequitable conduct, holding that only one of the references forming the basis of defendants allegations would remain in issue, and granted a motion by InterDigital for summary judgment that the asserted claims of the 966 and 847 patents are not invalid for lack of enablement. On August 5, 2014, InterDigital and Samsung filed a stipulation of dismissal in light of the parties settlement agreement. On the same day, the court granted the stipulation of dismissal and dismissed the action with prejudice. By order dated August 28, 2014, MMO was joined in the case as a defendant. The ZTE trial addressing infringement and validity of the 966, 847, 244 and 151 patents was held from October 20 to October 27, 2014. During the trial, the judge determined that further construction of certain claim language of the 151 patent was required, and the judge decided to hold another trial as to ZTE's infringement of the '151 patent at a later date. On October 28, 2014, the jury returned a unanimous verdict in favor of InterDigital, finding that the 966, 847 and 244 patents are all valid and infringed by ZTE 3G and 4G cellular devices. The court issued formal judgment to this effect on October 29, 2014. On November 26, 2014, ZTE filed a motion for judgment as a matter of law that the asserted claims of the '966, '847 and 244 patents are not infringed and, in the alternative, for a new trial. InterDigital filed an opposition on December 15, 2014, and ZTE filed a reply on January 7, 2015. The motion is fully briefed and remains pending. The ZTE trial addressing infringement of the 151 patent was held from April 20 to April 22, 2015. On April 22, 2015, the jury returned a verdict in favor of ZTE, finding that the '151 patent is not infringed by ZTE 3G and 4G cellular devices. On April 23, 2015, InterDigital filed a motion to partially dismiss its complaint pertaining to the '151 patent against Nokia and MMO, as well as Nokia and MMO's counterclaims that relate to the '151 patent (including inequitable conduct), and on April 27, 2015, the judge granted the motion. On April 27, 2015, the court ruled that Nokia Corporation should be severed for a separate trial addressing infringement of the 244 patent. On May 5, 2015, the court scheduled the Nokia Inc./MMO jury trial addressing infringement of the 244 patent for November 16, 2015. On May 29, 2015, the court entered a new scheduling order for damages and FRAND-related issues due to changes in the schedule of the liability portion of the MMO proceedings, scheduling trials related to damages and FRAND-related issues for October 2016 with ZTE and November 2016 with MMO. On September 14, 2015, a panel of Administrative Law Judges of the United States Patent and Trademark Office Patent Trial and Appeal Board (the PTAB) issued a final written decision in two Inter Partes Review (IPR) cases concerning the244 patent. These IPR proceedings were commenced on petitions filed by ZTE Corporation and ZTE (USA) Inc. and by Microsoft Corporation, respectively. Specifically, the panel determined that a number of claims of the 244 patent are unpatentable as obvious. IPR Licensing, Inc. appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit seeking review of the PTABs decision. The appeals are pending. On October 13, 2015, by stipulation of the parties, the Delaware District Court stayed the action involving MMO and Nokia Inc., including the November 2015 and November 2016 trials concerning infringement of the 244 patent and damages and FRAND-related issues, respectively, pending completion of the IPR, including all appeals and subsequent proceedings before the PTAB. This stay is with respect to MMO and Nokia Inc. only, and does not apply to the Delaware action pending against ZTE. On May 12, 2015, Nokia/MMO moved for summary judgment of non-infringement of the 244 patent, alleging that the accused devices do not practice a particular claim element of the 244 patent. On June 2, 2015, InterDigital opposed Nokia/MMOs motion, and filed a cross-motion for partial summary judgment that the accused devices infringe the claim element at issue in Nokia/MMOs motion for summary judgment. On October 13, 2015, the Delaware District Court denied the pending summary judgment cross-motions without prejudice in light of the stay discussed above, indicating that the motions could be considered refiled if and when the stay is lifted if either party requests it. On December 21, 2015, the court entered another scheduling order that vacated the October 2016 date for the ZTE trial related to damages and FRAND-related issues as set forth in the May 2015 scheduling order. The parties will discuss a new schedule for the ZTE FRAND-related issues in a joint status report in March 2016. Nokia and ZTE 2011 USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800) and Related Delaware District Court Proceeding 30 Table of Contents USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800) On July 26, 2011, InterDigital's wholly owned subsidiaries InterDigital Communications, LLC (now InterDigital Communications, Inc.), InterDigital Technology Corporation and IPR Licensing, Inc. filed a complaint with the USITC against Nokia Corporation and Nokia Inc., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and FutureWei Technologies, Inc. d/b/a Huawei Technologies (USA) and ZTE Corporation and ZTE (USA) Inc. (collectively, the 337-TA-800 Respondents), alleging violations of Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 in that they engaged in unfair trade practices by selling for importation into the United States, importing into the United States and/or selling after importation into the United States certain 3G wireless devices (including WCDMA- and cdma2000-capable mobile phones, USB sticks, mobile hotspots and tablets and components of such devices) that infringe several of InterDigital's U.S. patents. The action also extended to certain WCDMA and cdma2000 devices incorporating WiFi functionality. InterDigital's complaint with the USITC sought an exclusion order that would bar from entry into the United States any infringing 3G wireless devices (and components) that are imported by or on behalf of the 337-TA-800 Respondents, and also sought a cease-and-desist order to bar further sales of infringing products that have already been imported into the United States. In May 2012, Huawei Device USA, Inc. was added as a 337-TA-800 Respondent. The ALJ held an evidentiary hearing from February 12-21, 2013. The patents in issue as of the hearing were U.S. Patent Nos. 8,009,636 (the 636 patent), 7,706, 830 (the 830 patent), 7,502,406 (the 406 patent), 7,616,970 (the 970 patent), 7,706,332 (the "332 patent"), 7,536,013 (the "013 patent") and 7,970,127 (the "127 patent"). The ALJs Initial Determination (ID) issued on June 28, 2013, finding no violation because the asserted patents were not infringed and/or invalid. Among other determinations, with respect to the 337-TA-800 Respondents FRAND and other equitable defenses, the ALJ found that Respondents had failed to prove either that InterDigital violated any FRAND obligations, that InterDigital failed to negotiate in good faith, or that InterDigitals licensing offers were discriminatory. The ALJ also found that InterDigital is not precluded from seeking injunctive relief based on any alleged FRAND commitments. Petitions for review of the ID to the Commission were filed by InterDigital and the 337-TA-800 Respondents on July 15, 2013. On September 4, 2013, the Commission determined to review the ID in its entirety. On December 19, 2013, the Commission issued its final determination. The Commission adopted, with some modification, the ALJs finding of no violation of Section 337 as to Nokia, Huawei, and ZTE. The Commission did not rule on any other issue, including FRAND and domestic industry, and stated that all other issues remain under review. On December 20, 2013, InterDigital filed in the Federal Circuit a petition for review seeking reversal of the Commissions final determination. On February 18, 2015, the Federal Circuit issued a decision affirming the USITCs determinations that the claims of the 830, 636, 406 and 332 patents were not infringed, that the claims of the 970 patent are invalid, and that the Respondents did not violate Section 337. On April 6, 2015, InterDigital filed a combined petition for panel rehearing and rehearing e n banc as to the 830 and 636 patents. The petition was denied on May 12, 2015, and the courts mandate issued on May 19, 2015. Related Delaware District Court Proceeding On July 26, 2011, the same date that InterDigital filed USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800), it filed a parallel action in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against the 337-TA-800 Respondents alleging infringement of the same asserted patents identified in USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800). The Delaware District Court complaint seeks a permanent injunction and compensatory damages in an amount to be determined, as well as enhanced damages based on willful infringement, and recovery of reasonable attorneys' fees and costs. On September 23, 2011, the defendants in the Delaware District Court complaint filed a motion to stay the Delaware District Court action pending the parallel proceedings in the USITC. Because the USITC has instituted USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800), the defendants have a statutory right to a mandatory stay of the Delaware District Court proceeding pending a final determination in the USITC. On October 3, 2011, InterDigital amended the Delaware District Court complaint, adding LG as a defendant and adding the same additional patent that InterDigital requested be added to USITC Proceeding (337-TA-800). On October 11, 2011, the Delaware District Court granted the defendants' motion to stay. The case is currently stayed through March 16, 2016. On January 14, 2014, InterDigital and Huawei filed a stipulation of dismissal of their disputes in this action on account of the confidential settlement agreement mentioned above. On the same day, the Delaware District Court granted the stipulation of dismissal. Nokia 2007 USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613), Related Delaware District Court Proceeding and Federal Circuit Appeal USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613) 31 Table of Contents In August 2007, InterDigital filed a USITC complaint against Nokia Corporation and Nokia, Inc., alleging a violation of Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 in that Nokia engaged in an unfair trade practice by selling for importation into the United States, importing into the United States and/or selling after importation into the United States certain 3G mobile handsets and components that infringe two of InterDigital's patents. In November and December 2007, a third patent and a fourth patent were added to the Companys complaint against Nokia. The complaint sought an exclusion order barring from entry into the United States infringing 3G mobile handsets and components that are imported by or on behalf of Nokia. InterDigitals complaint also sought a cease-and-desist order to bar further sales of infringing Nokia products that have already been imported into the United States. On August 14, 2009, the ALJ overseeing USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613) issued an Initial Determination finding no violation of Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930. The Initial Determination found that InterDigital's patents were valid and enforceable, but that Nokia did not infringe these patents. In the event that a Section 337 violation were to be found by the Commission, the ALJ recommended the issuance of a limited exclusion order barring entry into the United States of infringing Nokia 3G WCDMA handsets and components, as well as the issuance of appropriate cease-and-desist orders. On October 16, 2009, the Commission issued a notice that it had determined to review in part the Initial Determination, and that it affirmed the ALJ's determination of no violation and terminated the investigation. The Commission determined to review the claim construction of the patent claim terms synchronize and access signal and also determined to review the ALJ's validity determinations. On review, the Commission modified the ALJ's claim construction of access signal and took no position with regard to the claim term synchronize or the validity determinations. The Commission determined not to review the remaining issues decided in the Initial Determination. On November 30, 2009, InterDigital filed with the Federal Circuit a petition for review of certain rulings by the USITC. In its appeal, InterDigital sought reversal of the Commission's claim constructions and non-infringement findings with respect to certain claim terms in the 966 and 847 patents, vacatur of the Commission's determination of no Section 337 violation and a remand for further proceedings before the Commission. On August 1, 2012, the Federal Circuit issued its decision in the appeal, holding that the Commission had erred in interpreting the claim terms at issue and reversing the Commission's finding of non-infringement. The Federal Circuit adopted InterDigital's interpretation of such claim terms and remanded the case back to the Commission for further proceedings. In addition, the Federal Circuit rejected Nokia's argument that InterDigital did not satisfy the domestic industry requirement. On September 17, 2012, Nokia filed a combined petition for rehearing by the panel or en banc with the Federal Circuit. On January 10, 2013, the Federal Circuit denied Nokia's petition. On January 17, 2013, the Federal Circuit issued its mandate remanding USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613) to the Commission for further proceedings. On February 12, 2014, the Commission issued a notice, order and opinion remanding the investigation to an ALJ. In doing so, the Commission determined certain issues and identified others that would be subject to further proceedings by the ALJ. The Commission assigned the investigation to an ALJ for limited remand proceedings consistent with its February 12, 2014 opinion. In June 2014, MMO was added as a respondent in the investigation. The evidentiary hearing in the remand proceeding was held January 26 - 28, 2015. On April 27, 2015, the ALJ issued his Remand Initial Determination (RID). The ALJ found that the imported accused handsets (1) contain chips that were not previously adjudicated and (2) infringe the asserted claims of the '966 and '847 patents, that there was no evidence of patent hold-up by InterDigital, that there is evidence of reverse hold-up by the respondents, and that the public interest does not preclude issuance of an exclusion order. On May 11, 2015, Nokia Corporation and MMO each filed petitions to the Commission to review the RID. On June 25, 2015, the Commission issued a notice of its decision to review the RID in part. The Commission determined to review the RIDs findings concerning the application of the Commissions prior construction of one claim limitation in Investigation Nos. 337-TA-800 and 337-TA-868, the RIDs findings as to whether the accused products satisfy that claim limitation, and the RIDs public interest findings. The Commission issued its final determination on August 28, 2015, finding that issue preclusion applied with respect to the construction of the claim limitations at issue, and issue preclusion also required a finding of non-infringement. The Commission determined there was no violation of Section 337 and terminated the 337-TA-613 investigation. The Commission found that consideration of the public interest issues was moot and did not address them. Related Delaware District Court Proceeding In addition, in August 2007, on the same date as the filing of USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613), InterDigital also filed a complaint in the Delaware District Court alleging that Nokia's 3G mobile handsets and components infringe the same two InterDigital patents identified in the original USITC complaint. The complaint seeks a permanent injunction and damages in an 32 Table of Contents amount to be determined. This Delaware action was stayed on January 10, 2008, pursuant to the mandatory, statutory stay of parallel district court proceedings at the request of a respondent in a USITC investigation. The Delaware District Court permitted InterDigital to add to the stayed Delaware action the third and fourth patents InterDigital asserted against Nokia in the USITC action. Nokia Delaware Proceeding In January 2005, Nokia filed a complaint in the Delaware District Court against InterDigital Communications Corporation (now InterDigital, Inc.) and its wholly owned subsidiary InterDigital Technology Corporation, alleging that InterDigital has used false or misleading descriptions or representations regarding the Companys patents' scope, validity and applicability to products built to comply with 3G standards (the Nokia Delaware Proceeding). Nokia's amended complaint seeks declaratory relief, injunctive relief and damages, including punitive damages, in an amount to be determined. InterDigital subsequently filed counterclaims based on Nokia's licensing activities as well as Nokia's false or misleading descriptions or representations regarding Nokia's 3G patents and Nokia's undisclosed funding and direction of an allegedly independent study of the essentiality of 3G patents. InterDigitals counterclaims seek injunctive relief as well as damages, including punitive damages, in an amount to be determined. On December 10, 2007, pursuant to a joint request by the parties, the Delaware District Court entered an order staying the proceedings pending the full and final resolution of USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613). Specifically, the full and final resolution of USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613) includes any initial or final determinations of the ALJ overseeing the proceeding, the USITC and any appeals therefrom and any remand proceedings thereafter. Pursuant to the order, the parties and their affiliates are generally prohibited from initiating against the other parties, in any forum, any claims or counterclaims that are the same as the claims and counterclaims pending in the Nokia Delaware Proceeding, and should any of the same or similar claims or counterclaims be initiated by a party, the other parties may seek dissolution of the stay. On November 24, 2015, InterDigital and Nokia voluntarily dismissed this case without prejudice to either party. Nokia Arbitration Concerning Presentations In November 2006, InterDigital Communications Corporation (now InterDigital, Inc.) and its wholly owned subsidiary InterDigital Technology Corporation filed a request for arbitration with the International Chamber of Commerce against Nokia (the Nokia Arbitration Concerning Presentations), claiming that certain presentations Nokia has attempted to use in support of its claims in the Nokia Delaware Proceeding (described above) are confidential and, as a result, may not be used in the Nokia Delaware Proceeding pursuant to the parties' agreement. The December 10, 2007 order entered by the Delaware District Court to stay the Nokia Delaware Proceeding also stayed the Nokia Arbitration Concerning Presentations pending the full and final resolution of USITC Proceeding (337-TA-613). On November 24, 2015, InterDigital and Nokia jointly withdrew from this arbitration without prejudice to either party. OTHER We are party to certain other disputes and legal actions in the ordinary course of business, including arbitrations and legal proceedings with licensees regarding the terms of their agreements and the negotiation thereof. We do not currently believe that these matters, even if adversely adjudicated or settled, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. None of the above matters have met the requirements for accrual as of December 31, 2015. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. Not applicable. 33 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Market Information The NASDAQ Stock Market (NASDAQ) is the principal market for our common stock, which is traded under the symbol "IDCC." The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock for each quarterly period in 2015 and 2014 , as reported by NASDAQ. 2015 High Low First quarter $ 56.27 $ 47.76 Second quarter 60.69 49.57 Third quarter 57.77 44.28 Fourth quarter 54.95 46.78 2014 High Low First quarter $ 33.60 $ 26.25 Second quarter 49.10 31.45 Third quarter 48.93 39.40 Fourth quarter 54.90 38.64 Holders As of February 16, 2016, there were 657 holders of record of our common stock. Dividends Cash dividends on outstanding common stock declared in 2015 and 2014 were as follows (in thousands, except per share data): 2015 Per Share Total Cumulative by Fiscal Year First quarter $ 0.20 $ 7,232 $ 7,232 Second quarter 0.20 7,243 14,475 Third quarter 0.20 7,183 21,658 Fourth quarter 0.20 7,068 28,726 $ 0.80 $ 28,726 2014 First quarter $ 0.10 $ 3,954 $ 3,954 Second quarter 0.20 8,033 11,987 Third quarter 0.20 7,666 19,653 Fourth quarter 0.20 7,500 27,153 $ 0.70 $ 27,153 In June 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a 100% increase in the Company's quarterly cash dividend, to $0.20 per share. We currently expect to continue to pay dividends comparable to our quarterly $0.20 per share cash dividend in the future; however, continued payment of cash dividends and changes in the Company's dividend policy will depend on the Company's earnings, financial condition, capital resources and capital requirements, alternative uses of capital, restrictions imposed by any existing debt, economic conditions and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. 34 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph compares five-year cumulative total returns of the Company, the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Telecommunications Stock Index. The graph assumes $100 was invested in the common stock of InterDigital and each index as of December 31, 2010 and that all dividends were re-invested. Such returns are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance. COMPARISON OF 5-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN among InterDigital, Inc., the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Telecommunications Index 12/10 12/11 12/12 12/13 12/14 12/15 InterDigital, Inc. 100.00 105.78 104.41 75.51 137.59 129.53 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 100.53 116.92 166.19 188.78 199.95 NASDAQ Telecommunications 100.00 89.84 91.94 128.06 133.34 128.91 The above performance graph shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference into any filing of InterDigital under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Repurchase of Common Stock The following table provides information regarding Company purchases of its common stock during fourth quarter 2015. 35 Table of Contents Period Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share (or Unit) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchases as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (2) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units) That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (3) October 1, 2015 - October 31, 2015 147,000 $ 50.03 147,000 $ 150,965,564 November 1, 2015 - November 30, 2015 $ $ 150,965,564 December 1, 2015 - December 31, 2015 $ $ 150,965,564 Total 147,000 $ 50.03 147,000 $ 150,965,564 (1) Total number of shares purchased during each period reflects share purchase transactions that were completed (i.e., settled) during the period indicated. (2) Shares were purchased pursuant to our $400.0 million share repurchase program (the 2014 Repurchase Program"), $300 million of which was authorized by the Company's Board of Directors on June 11, 2014 and announced on June 12, 2014 and $100 million of which was authorized by the Company's Board of Directors and announced on June 11, 2015. The 2014 Repurchase Program has no expiration date. The Company may repurchase shares under the 2014 Repurchase Program through open market purchases, pre-arranged trading plans, or privately negotiated purchases. (3) Amounts shown in this column reflect the amounts remaining under the 2014 Repurchase Program. In addition, from January 1, 2016 through February 17, 2016, we repurchased 0.6 million shares at a cost of $24.7 million under the 2014 Repurchase Program. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. The following data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements, related Notes and other financial information contained in this Form 10-K. 36 Table of Contents 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (in thousands except per share data) Consolidated statements of operations data: Revenues (a) $ 441,435 $ 415,821 $ 325,361 $ 663,063 $ 301,742 Income from operations (b) $ 208,549 $ 168,960 $ 84,756 $ 419,030 $ 134,757 Income tax provision (c) $ (64,621 ) $ (52,108 ) $ (25,836 ) $ (136,830 ) $ (35,140 ) Net income applicable to InterDigital, Inc. common shareholders $ 119,225 $ 104,342 $ 38,165 $ 271,804 $ 89,468 Net income per common share basic $ 3.31 $ 2.65 $ 0.93 $ 6.31 $ 1.97 Net income per common share diluted $ 3.27 $ 2.62 $ 0.92 $ 6.26 $ 1.94 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding basic 36,048 39,420 41,115 43,070 45,411 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding diluted 36,463 39,879 41,424 43,396 46,014 Cash dividends declared per common share (d) $ 0.80 $ 0.70 $ 0.40 $ 1.90 $ 0.40 Consolidated balance sheets data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 510,207 $ 428,567 $ 497,714 $ 349,843 $ 342,211 Short-term investments 423,501 275,361 200,737 227,436 335,783 Working capital 610,994 582,688 703,576 603,134 540,441 Total assets 1,474,485 1,192,962 1,110,251 1,052,374 991,430 Total debt 486,769 216,206 205,881 196,156 187,171 Total InterDigital, Inc. shareholders equity 510,519 468,328 528,650 518,705 471,682 Noncontrolling interest 11,376 7,349 5,170 Total shareholders equity $ 521,895 $ 475,677 $ 533,820 $ 518,705 $ 471,682 (a) In 2015, our revenues included $65.8 million in past sales primarily related to new patent license and settlement agreements. In 2014, our revenues included $125.0 million in past sales primarily related to new patent license agreements. In 2013, our revenues included $127.0 million of past sales primarily related to arbitration awards. In 2012, our revenues included $384 million associated with patent sales. (b) Our income from operations included charges of $1.5 million and $12.5 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively, associated with actions to reposition the companys operations. (c) In 2014, our income tax provision included the impact of a $4.2 million net tax benefit, primarily attributable to available U.S. federal research and development tax credits, which was partially offset by an audit settlement. In 2012, our income tax provision included a tax benefit of $6.7 million related to the release of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, which we now expect to utilize. In 2011, our income tax provision included benefits of $6.8 million related to the favorable resolution of tax contingencies and $1.5 million associated with after-tax interest income on tax refunds. (d) In June 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a 100% increase in the Company's quarterly cash dividend, to $0.20 per share. On December 5, 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a special cash dividend of $1.50 per share on InterDigital common stock. The special cash dividend was payable on December 28, 2012 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 17, 2012. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OVERVIEW The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Selected Financial Data, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto contained in this Form 10-K. 37 Table of Contents Throughout the following discussion and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we refer to recurring revenues and past sales. Recurring revenues are comprised of current patent royalties and current technology solutions revenue. Past sales are comprised of past patent royalties and past technology solutions revenue. Business InterDigital designs and develops advanced technologies that enable and enhance wireless communications and capabilities. Since our founding in 1972, our engineers have designed and developed a wide range of innovations that are used in digital cellular and wireless products and networks, including 2G, 3G, 4G and IEEE 802-related products and networks. We are a leading contributor of intellectual property to the wireless communications industry. Given our long history and focus on advanced research and development, InterDigital has one of the most significant patent portfolios in the wireless industry. As of December 31, 2015, InterDigital's wholly owned subsidiaries held a portfolio of approximately 20,400 patents and patent applications related to a range of technologies including the fundamental technologies that enable wireless communications. In that portfolio are a number of patents and patent applications that we believe are or may be essential or may become essential to cellular and other wireless standards, including 3G, 4G and the IEEE 802 suite of standards, as well as patent applications that we believe may become essential to 5G standards that are under development. That portfolio has largely been built through internal development, supplemented by joint development projects with other companies as well as select patent acquisitions. Products incorporating our patented inventions include: mobile devices, such as cellular phones, tablets, notebook computers and wireless personal digital assistants; wireless infrastructure equipment, such as base stations; and components, dongles and modules for wireless devices. InterDigital derives revenues primarily from patent licensing and sales, technology solutions licensing and sales and engineering services. In 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , our total revenues were $441.4 million , $415.8 million and $325.4 million , respectively. Our recurring revenues in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 were $372.8 million , $288.8 million and $198.3 million , respectively. In 2015 , the amortization of fixed-fee royalty payments accounted for approximately 35% of our recurring revenues. These fixed-fee revenues are not affected by the related licensees success in the market or the general economic climate. The majority of the remaining portion of our recurring revenue is variable in nature due to the per-unit structure of the related license agreements. Approximately 79% of this per-unit, variable portion for 2015 related to sales by our collection of Taiwanese licensees, the majority of which revenue was derived from the sale of Apple products. Revenue Recurring revenue in 2015 of $372.8 million increased 29% from the prior year. This $84.0 million year-over-year increase in recurring revenue was primarily driven by an increase in per-unit royalties driven by increased shipments by Pegatron, as well as an increase in fixed-fee revenues. The increase in fixed-fee revenues was primarily attributable to a full year of revenue amortization for new agreements signed in 2014, which was partially offset by the absence of revenue from patent license agreements that expired during 2014. Additionally, during 2015, we recognized $68.7 million of past sales revenue, primarily attributable to the new patent license agreements and settlement agreements discussed below, as compared to $125.0 million recognized in 2014. The 2014 past sales amount was primarily attributable to revenue recognized as a result of new patent license agreements. Refer to " Results of Operations -- 2015 Compared with 2014 " for further discussion of our 2015 revenue. New Agreements and Settlements During second quarter 2015, we entered into a settlement agreement with Arima Communications Corporation ("Arima"). The agreement maintains the existing patent license agreement and resolves all pending payment disputes between the companies. In addition, the agreement resulted in the dismissal of all current litigations and arbitrations between the companies in all jurisdictions. We recognized $27.2 million of past patent royalties related to this settlement. During third quarter 2015, we entered into a new patent license agreement with Sony (the "new Sony PLA"). In addition, we renewed our joint venture with Sony, Convida Wireless, to continue investments in the development of IoT technologies and expanded it to include development efforts in 5G technologies. As discussed more fully in Note 14, " Variable Interest Entities ," Convida Wireless is a variable interest entity and is consolidated within our financial statements. Our agreement with Sony is a multiple-element arrangement for accounting purposes, which includes, among other elements, the new Sony PLA. The new Sony PLA covers the sale by Sony of covered products for the three-year period that commenced on December 1, 2015. In addition, the new Sony PLA covers Sony's covered product sales that occurred during certain prior periods and that were not covered under our prior agreement with Sony. We recognized past sales of $21.8 million from this agreement in third quarter 2015, and are recognizing future revenue from the new Sony PLA on a straight-line basis 38 Table of Contents over its term. A portion of the consideration received was in the form of patents. Refer to Note 2, " Summary of Significant Accounting Policies ," for additional information related to the estimates and methods used to determine the fair value of the patents acquired. During fourth quarter 2015, we entered into a new worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty bearing patent license agreement with Kyocera. Our agreement with Kyocera is a multiple-element arrangement for accounting purposes. The agreement covers Kyocera's sale of certain cellular terminal unit products. We recognized $16.4 million of past patent royalties related to this settlement during fourth quarter 2015. A portion of the consideration received was in the form of patents. Refer to Note 2, " Summary of Significant Accounting Policies ," for additional information related to the estimates and methods used to determine the fair value of the patents acquired. Additionally, during fourth quarter 2015, we entered into a settlement agreement with a technology solutions customer. The agreement resolves all pending payment disputes between the parties. We recognized $2.8 million of past technology solutions revenue, $1.8 million of interest income, a $0.5 million reversal of a bad debt reserve and $0.4 million of contra-expenses related to this settlement. Huawei Arbitration In December 2013, InterDigital and Huawei reached a settlement agreement to enter into binding arbitration to resolve their global patent licensing dispute. Pursuant to their agreement, InterDigital and Huawei initiated an arbitration in April 2014 jointly seeking a determination by an arbitral tribunal of FRAND royalty terms and conditions to be included in a binding worldwide patent license agreement to take effect upon issuance of the arbitration award. An arbitration hearing was held in January 2015, and the arbitration panel delivered a confidential partial award in May 2015 and a confidential final award in July 2015. In July 2015, InterDigital filed a petition in the District Court for the Southern District of New York for an order confirming the arbitration award (the New York Proceeding), and Huawei filed an action in the Paris Court of Appeal requesting annulment of the arbitration award (the Paris Proceeding). Huawei also filed a motion to stay the New York Proceeding pending the Paris Proceeding. A hearing in the New York Proceeding was held on February 16, 2016. On February 17, 2016, the judge notified the parties that he had rendered a decision on Huaweis motion to stay the New York Proceeding, finding that the New York Proceeding should be stayed pending the Paris Proceeding, subject to a requirement that Huawei post suitable security, pursuant to Article VI of the New York Convention, in the amount of the final award, together with interest. The stay is subject to revision should circumstances change, and InterDigital can renew its petition for an order confirming the award after the outcome of the Paris Proceeding is determined. A hearing is scheduled in the Paris Proceeding for March 2016. To date, Huawei has not made any payments under the arbitration award. We will recognize any related revenue in the period in which the amount of revenue is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Please see Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10-K for a fuller discussion of these proceedings. Expiration of Patent License Agreements Our patent license agreements with a number of licensees are scheduled to expire during 2016. Collectively, these agreements accounted for $19.7 million, or approximately 4%, of our total revenue in 2015. Individually, none of these agreements accounted for more than 2% of our total revenue in 2015. Subsequent Event We anticipate a severance charge in the range of $1.5 million to $2.0 million during first quarter 2016 related to ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure. Cash and Short-Term Investments At December 31, 2015 , we had $933.7 million of cash and short-term investments and up to an additional $472.3 million of payments due under signed agreements, including $53.9 million recorded in accounts receivable that is due within twelve months of the balance sheet date. A substantial portion of our cash and short-term investments relates to fixed and prepaid royalty payments we have received that relate to future sales of our licensees products. As a result, our future cash receipts from existing licenses subject to fixed and prepaid royalties will be lower than if the royalty payments were structured to coincide with the underlying sales. During 2015 , we recorded $408.0 million of cash receipts related to patent licensing and technology solutions agreements as follows (in thousands): 39 Table of Contents Cash In Current royalties $ 223,270 Fixed-fee royalty payments 135,027 Past per-unit patent royalties 24,766 Prepaid royalties 13,460 Technology solutions 7,145 Past technology solutions 3,300 Past fixed royalty payments 1,057 $ 408,025 Approximately $212.9 million of our $395.3 million deferred revenue balance relates to fixed-fee royalty payments that are scheduled to amortize as follows (in thousands): 2016 $ 106,229 2017 98,881 2018 3,909 2019 1,392 2020 1,392 Thereafter 1,068 $ 212,871 The remaining $182.4 million of deferred revenue primarily relates to prepaid royalties that will be recorded as revenue as our licensees report their sales of covered products. Repurchase of Common Stock In May 2012, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program, which was then expanded in June 2012 to increase the amount of the program from $100 million to $200 million (the "2012 Repurchase Program"). Of the $200 million authorized under the 2012 Repurchase Program, $106.8 million was utilized prior to the termination of the program in June 2014. In June 2014, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program, which was expanded in June 2015 to increase the amount of the program from $300 million to $400 million (the 2014 Repurchase Program"). We may repurchase shares under the 2014 Repurchase Program through open market purchases, pre-arranged trading plans or privately negotiated purchases. The table below sets forth for the periods presented the number of shares repurchased and the dollar value of shares repurchased under the 2012 Repurchase Program and the 2014 Repurchase Program, in thousands. 2012 Repurchase Program 2014 Repurchase Program Total Both Programs # of Shares Value # of Shares Value # of Shares Value 2015 $ 1,836 $ 96,410 1,836 $ 96,410 2014 3,554 152,625 3,554 152,625 2013 917 29,135 917 29,135 Prior to 2013 2,552 77,694 2,552 77,694 Total 3,469 $ 106,829 5,390 $ 249,035 8,859 $ 355,864 In addition, from January 1, 2016 through February 17, 2016, we repurchased 0.6 million shares at a cost of $24.7 million under the 2014 Repurchase Program. Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement If we believe any party is required to license our patents in order to manufacture and sell certain products and such party refuses to do so, we may agree with such party to have royalty rates, or other terms, set by third party adjudicators (such 40 Table of Contents as arbitrators) or, in certain circumstances, we may institute legal action against them to enforce our patent rights. This legal action typically takes the form of a patent infringement lawsuit or an administrative proceeding. In addition, we and our licensees, in the normal course of business, might seek to resolve disagreements between the parties with respect to the rights and obligations of the parties under the applicable license agreement through arbitration or litigation. In 2015 , our intellectual property enforcement costs decreased to $31.8 million from $52.1 million and $75.0 million in 2014 and 2013 , respectively. This represented 26% of our 2015 total patent administration and licensing costs of $120.4 million . Intellectual property enforcement costs will vary depending upon activity levels, and it is likely they will continue to be a significant expense for us in the future. Comparability of Financial Results When comparing 2015 financial results against the financial results of other periods, the following items should be taken into consideration: Our 2015 revenue includes: $65.8 million of past sales primarily related to the new patent license and settlement agreements; and $2.9 million of past technology solutions revenue primarily related to the settlement with a technology solutions customer discussed above. Our 2015 operating expenses include: $8.0 million of expense to increase accrual rates for some of our incentive compensation plans; and $0.9 million of contra-expenses associated with the reversal of a bad debt reserve and reimbursement of legal fees related to the settlement with a technology solutions customer discussed above. Our 2015 other expense includes: $1.8 million of interest income related to the settlement with a technology solutions customer discussed above. Our 2015 income tax provision includes: an approximately $2.1 million net tax benefit, primarily attributable to available U.S. federal research and development tax credits. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are based on the selection and application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in both our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results could differ from these estimates and any such differences may be material to the financial statements. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and are included in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K. We believe the accounting policies that are of particular importance to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and that may involve a higher degree of complexity and judgment in their application compared to others are those relating to revenue recognition, compensation and income taxes. If different assumptions were made or different conditions existed, our financial results could have been materially different. 41 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition We derive the vast majority of our revenue from patent licensing. The timing and amount of revenue recognized from each licensee depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each agreement and the nature of the deliverables and obligations. Such agreements are often complex and include multiple elements. These agreements can include, without limitation, elements related to the settlement of past patent infringement liabilities, up-front and non-refundable license fees for the use of patents and/or know-how, patent and/or know-how licensing royalties on covered products sold by licensees, cross-licensing terms between us and other parties, the compensation structure and ownership of intellectual property rights associated with contractual technology development arrangements, advanced payments and fees for service arrangements and settlement of intellectual property enforcement. For agreements entered into or materially modified prior to 2011, due to the inherent difficulty in establishing reliable, verifiable, and objectively determinable evidence of the fair value of the separate elements of these agreements, the total revenue resulting from such agreements has often been recognized over the performance period. Beginning in January 2011, all new or materially modified agreements are being accounted for under the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") revenue recognition guidance, "Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables." This guidance requires consideration to be allocated to each element of an agreement that has stand alone value using the relative fair value method. In other circumstances, such as those agreements involving consideration for past and expected future patent royalty obligations, after consideration of the particular facts and circumstances, the appropriate recording of revenue between periods may require the use of judgment. In all cases, revenue is only recognized after all of the following criteria are met: (1) written agreements have been executed; (2) delivery of technology or intellectual property rights has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) fees are fixed or determinable; and (4) collectibility of fees is reasonably assured. We establish a receivable for payments expected to be received within twelve months from the balance sheet date based on the terms in the license. Our reporting of such payments often results in an increase to both accounts receivable and deferred revenue. Deferred revenue associated with fixed-fee royalty payments is classified on the balance sheet as short-term when it is scheduled to be amortized within twelve months from the balance sheet date. All other deferred revenue is classified as long-term, as amounts to be recognized over the next twelve months are not known. Patent License Agreements Upon signing a patent license agreement, we provide the licensee permission to use our patented inventions in specific applications. We account for patent license agreements in accordance with the guidance for revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. We have elected to utilize the leased-based model for revenue recognition, with revenue being recognized over the expected period of benefit to the licensee. Under our patent license agreements, we typically receive one or a combination of the following forms of payment as consideration for permitting our licensees to use our patented inventions in their applications and products: Consideration for Past Patent Royalties: Consideration related to a licensees product sales from prior periods may result from a negotiated agreement with a licensee that utilized our patented inventions prior to signing a patent license agreement with us or from the resolution of a disagreement or arbitration with a licensee over the specific terms of an existing license agreement. We may also receive consideration for past patent royalties in connection with the settlement of patent litigation where there was no prior patent license agreement. In each of these cases, we record the consideration as revenue when we have obtained a signed agreement, identified a fixed or determinable price and determined that collectibility is reasonably assured. Fixed-Fee Royalty Payments: These are up-front, non-refundable royalty payments that fulfill the licensees obligations to us under a patent license agreement for a specified time period or for the term of the agreement for specified products, under certain patents or patent claims, for sales in certain countries, or a combination thereof in each case for a specified time period (including for the life of the patents licensed under the agreement). We recognize revenues related to Fixed-Fee Royalty Payments on a straight-line basis over the effective term of the license. We utilize the straight-line method because we cannot reliably predict in which periods, within the term of a license, the licensee will benefit from the use of our patented inventions. Prepayments: These are up-front, non-refundable royalty payments towards a licensees future obligations to us related to its expected sales of covered products in future periods. Our licensees obligations to pay royalties typically extend beyond the exhaustion of their Prepayment balance. Once a licensee exhausts its Prepayment balance, we may provide them with the opportunity to make another Prepayment toward future sales or it will be required to make Current Royalty Payments. Current Royalty Payments: These are royalty payments covering a licensees obligations to us related to its sales of covered products in the current contractual reporting period. Licensees that either owe us Current Royalty Payments or have Prepayment balances are obligated to provide us with quarterly royalty reports that summarize their sales of covered products and their related royalty obligations to us. We typically 42 Table of Contents receive these royalty reports subsequent to the period in which our licensees underlying sales occurred. As a result, it is impractical for us to recognize revenue in the period in which the underlying sales occur, and, in most cases, we recognize revenue in the period in which the royalty report is received and other revenue recognition criteria are met due to the fact that without royalty reports from our licensees, our visibility into our licensees sales is very limited. When a licensee is required to gross-up their royalty payment to cover applicable foreign withholding tax requirements, the additional consideration is recorded as revenue. The exhaustion of Prepayments and Current Royalty Payments are often calculated based on related per-unit sales of covered products. From time to time, licensees will not report revenues in the proper period, most often due to legal disputes. When this occurs, the timing and comparability of royalty revenue could be affected. In cases where we receive objective, verifiable evidence that a licensee has discontinued sales of products covered under a patent license agreement with us, we recognize any related deferred revenue balance in the period that we receive such evidence. Patent Sales During 2012, we expanded our business strategy of monetizing our intellectual property to include the sale of select patent assets. As patent sales executed under this strategy represent a component of our ongoing major or central operations and activities, we will record the related proceeds as revenue. We will recognize the revenue when there is persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement, fees are fixed or determinable, delivery has occurred and collectibility is reasonably assured. These requirements are generally fulfilled upon closing of the patent sale transaction. Technology Solutions and Engineering Services Technology solutions revenue consists primarily of revenue from royalty payments. We recognize revenue from royalty payments using the same methods described above under our policy for recognizing revenue from patent license agreements. Technology solutions revenues also consist of revenues from software licenses and engineering services. Software license revenues are recognized in accordance with the original and revised guidance for software revenue recognition. When the arrangement with a customer includes significant production, modification, or customization of the software, we recognize the related revenue using the percentage-of-completion method in accordance with the accounting guidance for construction-type and certain production-type contracts. Under this method, revenue and profit are recognized throughout the term of the contract, based on actual labor costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs related to the contract. Changes in estimates for revenues, costs and profits are recognized in the period in which they are determinable. When such estimates indicate that costs will exceed future revenues and a loss on the contract exists, a provision for the entire loss is recognized at that time. We recognize revenues associated with engineering service arrangements that are outside the scope of the accounting guidance for construction-type and certain production-type contracts on a straight-line basis, unless evidence suggests that the revenue is earned in a different pattern, over the contractual term of the arrangement or the expected period during which those specified services will be performed, whichever is longer. In such cases we often recognize revenue using proportional performance and measure the progress of our performance based on the relationship between incurred labor hours and total estimated labor hours or other measures of progress, if available. Our most significant cost has been labor and we believe both labor hours and labor cost provide a measure of the progress of our services. The effect of changes to total estimated contract costs is recognized in the period such changes are determined. Multiple Element Arrangements During 2015, we signed three agreements that were considered multiple-element arrangements for accounting purposes. In accordance with our revenue recognition policy, we identified each element of the arrangement, estimated its relative fair value for purposes of allocating the arrangement consideration and determined when each of those elements should be recognized. Using the accounting guidance applicable to multiple-element revenue arrangements, we allocated the consideration to each element for accounting purposes using our best estimate of the term and value of each element. The development of a number of these inputs and assumptions in the model requires a significant amount of management judgment and is based upon a number of factors, including the assumed royalty rates, sales volumes, discount rate and other relevant factors. Changes in any of a number of these assumptions could have had a substantial impact on the relative fair value assigned to each element for accounting purposes. These inputs and assumptions represent management's best estimates at the time of the transactions. The impact that a five percent change to the allocation of past patent royalties under these three agreements would have had on 2015 revenue is summarized in the following table (in thousands): 43 Table of Contents Change in estimate Allocation to past patent royalties +5% -%5 Change in Revenue $ 6,330 $ (6,330 ) Revenue from Non-financial Sources During 2015, 2014, and 2013, our patent licensing royalties were derived from patent license agreements ("PLAs") with 24, 25, and 21 independent licensees, respectively. During 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recognized revenue from four PLAs, two PLAs and one PLA, respectively, for which patents comprised less than one-third of the total consideration paid or due to us under those agreements. In addition, during 2015 and 2014, we recognized revenue from one PLA that was executed in 2014 in connection with a patent purchase agreement ("PPA") with the licensee. Total cash paid or due to our licensee under this PPA is approximately 56% of the total cash due to us under this licensee's PLA. During 2015, 2014, and 2013, approximately 5%, 7%, and 3%, respectively, of our total revenue was based on the estimated fair value of the patents in the above transactions. We estimated the fair value of the patents in the above transactions by a combination of a discounted cash flow analysis (the income approach) and an analysis of comparable market transactions (the market approach). For the income approach, the inputs and assumptions used to develop these estimates were based on a market participant perspective and included estimates of projected royalties, discount rates, economic lives and income tax rates, among others. For the market approach, judgment was applied as to which market transactions were most comparable to this transaction. The development of a number of these inputs and assumptions requires a significant amount of management judgment and is based upon a number of factors, including the selection of industry comparables, assumed royalty rates, sales volumes, economic lives of the patents and other relevant factors. Changes in any of a number of these assumptions could have had a substantial impact on the fair value assigned to the patents for accounting purposes. These inputs and assumptions represent management's best estimates at the time of the transaction. The impact that a five percent change in the estimated value of the patents would have had on 2015 revenue, patent amortization and pre-tax income is summarized in the following table (in thousands): Change in estimate Value of patents acquired in connection with PLAs +5% -%5 Revenue $ 1,105 $ (1,105 ) Less: Patent amortization 493 (493 ) Pre-tax income $ 612 $ (612 ) Compensation Programs We use a variety of compensation programs to both attract and retain employees, and to more closely align employee compensation with company performance. These programs include, but are not limited to, short-term incentive awards tied to performance goals and cash awards to inventors for filed patent applications and patent issuances, as well as stock option awards, time-based restricted stock unit (RSU) awards and performance-based awards under our long-term compensation program ("LTCP"). Our LTCP typically includes annual grants with a three-year vesting period; as a result, in any one year, we are typically accounting for three active LTCP cycles. The aggregate amount of performance compensation expense we record in a period, under both short-term and long-term performance compensation programs, requires the input of subjective assumptions and is a function of our estimated progress toward performance compensation goals at the beginning of the period, and our estimated progress or final assessment of progress toward performance compensation goals at the end of the period. Our estimated progress toward goals under performance equity grants is based on meeting a minimum confidence level in accordance with accounting rules for share-based compensation. Achievement rates can vary by performance cycle and from period to period, resulting in variability in our compensation expense. If we had accrued all performance compensation cost throughout 2015 on the assumption that all plans would be paid out at 100%, we would have recorded $5.6 million less in compensation expense in 2015 than we actually recorded. There are two LTCP cycles that will carry over into 2016, for which if we record the performance-based incentive components at current accrual rates during 2016, we estimate that we will record $4.9 million in incentive-based compensation for those cycles in 2016. We account for compensation costs associated with share-based transactions based on the fair value of the instruments issued, net of any estimated award forfeitures. This requires us to make subjective assumptions around the value of the equity 44 Table of Contents at the time of issuance and the expected forfeiture rates, which in both cases are generally based on historical experience. The estimated value of stock options includes assumptions around expected life, stock volatility, and dividends. The expected life of our stock option awards are based on the simplified method as prescribed by Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 14. In all periods, our policy has been to set the value of RSUs and restricted stock awards equal to the value of our underlying common stock on the date of measurement. For grants with graded vesting, we amortize the associated unrecognized compensation cost using an accelerated method. For grants that cliff vest, we amortize the associated unrecognized compensation cost on a straight-line basis over their vesting term. In 2006, we adopted the short-cut method to establish the historical additional paid-in-capital pool (APIC Pool) related to the tax effects of employee share-based compensation. Any positive balance would be available to absorb tax shortfalls (which occur when the tax deductions resulting from share-based compensation are less than the related book expense) recognized subsequent to the adoption of the stock-based compensation guidance. The below table summarizes our performance-based and other share-based compensation expense for 2015, 2014 and 2013, in thousands: 2015 2014 2013 Short-term incentive compensation $ 19,098 $ 20,404 $ 10,550 Time-based awards (d) 7,874 6,734 4,641 Performance-based awards (d) 5,340 (a) 8,947 (b) 7,260 (c) Other share-based compensation 2,090 2,814 4,039 Total performance-based and other share-based compensation expense $ 34,402 $ 38,899 $ 26,490 (a) Included in 2015 is a charge of $1.1 million to increase the accrual rates under our LTCP driven by the Company's success toward achieving goals for the related cycles. (b) Included in 2014 is a charge of $4.8 million to increase the accrual rates under our LTCP driven by the Company's success toward achieving goals for the related cycles. (c) Included in 2013 is a charge of $6.5 million to increase the accrual rates under our LTCP driven by the Company's success toward achieving goals for the related cycles. (d) A portion of the 2015 expense relates to cash awards. All expense for 2014 and 2013 relates to equity awards. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets if management has determined that it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized. In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. We are subject to examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing jurisdictions on various tax matters, including challenges to various positions we assert in our filings. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. The financial statement recognition of the benefi t for a tax position is dependent upon the benefit being more likely than not to be sustainable upon audit by the applicable tax authority. If this threshold is met, the tax benefit is then measured and recognized at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Between 2006 and 2015, we paid approximately $295.1 million in foreign taxes for which we have claimed foreign tax credits against our U.S. tax obligations. Of this amount, $195.3 million relates to taxes paid to foreign governments that have tax treaties with the U.S. It is possible that as a result of tax treaty procedures, the U.S. government may reach an agreement with the related foreign governments that will result in a partial refund of foreign taxes paid with a related reduction in our foreign tax credits. Due to both foreign currency fluctuations and differences in the interest rate charged by the 45 Table of Contents U.S. government compared to the interest rates, if any, used by the foreign governments, any such agreement could result in net interest expense and/or foreign currency gain or loss. During 2015, we estimated a research and development credit for the 2015 period that resulted in an approximately $2.1 million tax benefit net of any unrecognized tax benefits. During 2014, we completed the research and development credit studies for the periods from 2010 to 2013 and amended our United States federal income tax returns for the periods from 2010 through 2012 to claim the research and development credit for those periods. After all periods were amended and the 2013 federal income tax return was filed, we recognized a net benefit after consideration of any unrecognized tax benefits from the tax credits in the amount of $5.7 million . Additionally, in 2014, we recognized a benefit after consideration of any unrecognized tax benefits of $0.9 million for the estimated research and development credit for 2014. In addition, in 2014, we recorded $0.7 million of unrecognized tax benefits related to other matters. New Accounting Guidance Accounting Standards Update: Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes In November 2015, as part of their simplification initiative, the FASB issued amendments to guidance for reporting deferred taxes. According to the revised standard, an entity will be required to present deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. Under current guidance, entities separate deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as current or noncurrent based on the classification of the related asset or liability for financial reporting. The guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2016 but early adoption is permitted. We elected to early adopt this guidance effective fourth quarter 2015, and we retrospectively applied the change within our Consolidated Balance Sheets included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The impact of this change to our December 31, 2014 Consolidated Balance Sheet was a reduction of $54.0 million to current deferred tax assets and a corresponding increase of $54.0 million to noncurrent deferred tax assets. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, for further information on our deferred tax assets. Accounting Standards Update: Debt Issuance Costs In March 2015, as part of their simplification initiative, the FASB issued amendments to guidance for reporting debt issuance costs. According to the revised standard, an entity will recognize debt issuance costs as a direct deduction from the debt liability as opposed to an asset. The costs will continue to be amortized and included within interest expense in the entity's financial statements. The guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2015 but early adoption is permitted. We elected to early adopt this guidance effective first quarter 2015, and we retrospectively applied the change within our Consolidated Balance Sheets included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The impact of this change to our December 31, 2014 Consolidated Balance Sheet was a reduction of $1.3 million and a reduction of $0.3 million to Prepaid and other current assets and Other non-current assets, respectively, and a corresponding $1.6 million reduction to Long-term debt. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, for further information on our debt issuance costs. Accounting Standards Update: Consolidation In February 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-2, Consolidation (Topic 820): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis. ASU 2015-2 provides a revised consolidation model for all reporting entities to use in evaluating whether they should consolidate certain legal entities. All legal entities will be subject to reevaluation under this revised consolidation model. The revised consolidation model, among other things, (i) modifies the evaluation of whether limited partnerships and similar legal entities are voting interest entities, or VIEs, (ii) eliminates the presumption that a general partner should consolidate a limited partnership and (iii) modifies the consolidation analysis of reporting entities that are involved with VIEs through fee arrangements and related party relationships. ASU 2015-2 is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. We are still evaluating what impact, if any, this ASU will have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Accounting Standards Update: Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance on revenue from contracts with customers that will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. Other major provisions include capitalization of certain contract costs, consideration of time value of money in the transaction price, and allowing estimates of variable consideration to be recognized before contingencies are resolved in certain circumstances. The guidance also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers. The guidance is effective for the interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2017 (early adoption is permitted as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within those annual periods). The guidance permits the 46 Table of Contents use of either a retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We have not yet selected a transition method. We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting this guidance will have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Legal Proceedings We are routinely involved in disputes associated with enforcement and licensing activities regarding our intellectual property, including litigations, arbitrations and other proceedings. These litigations, arbitrations and other proceedings are important means to enforce our intellectual property rights. We are a party to other disputes and legal actions not related to our intellectual property, but also arising in the ordinary course of our business. Refer to Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10-K for a description of our material legal proceedings. FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our primary sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, as well as cash generated from operations. We believe we have the ability to obtain additional liquidity through debt and equity financings. Based on our past performance and current expectations, we believe our available sources of funds, including cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and cash generated from our operations, will be sufficient to finance our operations, capital requirements, our debt obligations (including the repayment of our $230 million aggregate principal amount of 2.50% senior convertible notes due in March 2016 (the "2016 Notes")), existing stock repurchase program and dividend program for the next twelve months. On March 11, 2015, we completed an offering of $316.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.50% Senior Convertible Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes," and together with the 2016 Notes, the "Notes"). The net proceeds from the offering were approximately $306.7 million, after deducting the initial purchasers' discount, commissions and offering expenses. A portion of the net proceeds from the offering was used to fund the cost of the convertible note hedge transactions entered into in connection with the offering of the 2020 Notes. We also used $43.6 million of the remaining net proceeds to repurchase shares of our common stock concurrently with the pricing of the offering of the 2020 Notes. We expect to use the remaining net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, the repurchase or retirement of our other outstanding indebtedness. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , we had the following amounts of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments (in thousands): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Increase / (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 510,207 $ 428,567 $ 81,640 Short-term investments 423,501 275,361 148,140 Total cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 933,708 $ 703,928 $ 229,780 The increase in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was primarily attributable to the net proceeds of $306.7 million from the offering of the 2020 Notes discussed above and $114.5 million of cash provided by operating activities. These increases were partially offset by the cost of repurchasing common stock of $96.4 million , $49.8 million in capital investments, including capitalized patent costs and patent acquisitions, dividend payments of $28.9 million and a net cost of $16.5 million for the bond hedge and warrant transactions. Cash flows from operations We generated the following cash flows from our operating activities in 2015 and 2014 (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Increase / (Decrease) Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 114,499 $ 242,013 $ (127,514 ) Our cash flows provided by operating activities are principally derived from cash receipts from patent license and technology solutions agreements offset by cash operating expenses and income tax payments. The decrease in cash flows provided by operating activities of $127.5 million was primarily attributable to a decrease in cash receipts of $152.6 million . The decrease is attributable to higher cash receipts in 2014 due to new agreements signed in that year, partially offset by higher 47 Table of Contents current royalties in 2015 from existing licensees, primarily Pegatron and our other Taiwan-based licensees. This decrease in cash receipts was partially offset by a decrease in cash outflows of $44.6 million primarily due to income taxes paid and lower cash operating expenses. Additionally, other working capital adjustments contributed $19.5 million to the decrease, primarily due to payment of accrued compensation. The table below provides the significant items comprising our cash flows provided by operating activities during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 (in thousands). For the Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Increase / (Decrease) Cash Receipts: Fixed-fee royalty payments a $ 136,084 $ 389,000 $ (252,916 ) Current royalties b 223,270 155,432 67,838 Prepaid royalties c 38,226 2,500 35,726 Technology solutions 10,445 11,649 (1,204 ) Patent sales 1,999 (1,999 ) Total cash receipts $ 408,025 $ 560,580 $ (152,555 ) Cash Outflows: Cash operating expenses d (169,954 ) (185,421 ) 15,467 Income taxes paid e (85,780 ) (114,876 ) 29,096 Total cash outflows (255,734 ) (300,297 ) 44,563 Other working capital adjustments (37,792 ) (18,270 ) (19,522 ) Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 114,499 $ 242,013 $ (127,514 ) (a) Fixed-fee royalty payments for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 include $1.1 million and $118.4 million , respectively, of cash receipts recognized as past sales revenue. (b) Current patent royalty payments for the year ended December 31, 2014 include $3.7 million of cash receipts recognized as past sales revenue. (c) Prepaid patent royalty payments for the year ended December 31, 2015 include $24.8 million of cash receipts recognized as past sales revenue. (d) Cash operating expenses include operating expenses less depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of patents, and non-cash compensation. (e) Income taxes paid include foreign withholding taxes. Working capital We believe that working capital, adjusted to exclude cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and current deferred revenue provides additional information about non-cash assets and liabilities that might affect our near-term liquidity. While we believe cash and short-term investments are important measures of our liquidity, the remaining components of our current assets and current liabilities, with the exception of deferred revenue, could affect our near-term liquidity and/or cash flow. We have no material obligations associated with our deferred revenue, and the amortization of deferred revenue has no impact on our future liquidity and or cash flow. Our adjusted working capital, a non-GAAP financial measure, reconciles to working capital, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 (in thousands) as follows: 48 Table of Contents For the Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Increase / (Decrease) Current assets $ 1,010,967 $ 787,857 $ 223,110 Less : current liabilities 399,973 205,169 194,804 Working capital 610,994 582,688 28,306 Subtract: Cash and cash equivalents 510,207 428,567 81,640 Short-term investments 423,501 275,361 148,140 Add: Current deferred revenue 106,229 124,695 (18,466 ) Adjusted working capital $ (216,485 ) $ 3,455 $ (219,940 ) The $219.9 million decrease in adjusted working capital in 2015 compared to 2014 is primarily attributable to the reclassification of $227.2 million from long-term to short-term debt related to the 2016 Notes, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $15.7 million. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the payment of a final installment on a 2014 patent purchase. Cash used in or provided by investing and financing activities We used net cash in investing activities of $214.0 million and $140.3 million , respectively, in 2015 and 2014 . We purchased $147.9 million and $75.0 million , net of sales, of short-term marketable securities in 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The change was primarily due to higher cash balances as a result of the issuance of the 2020 Notes and new agreements signed during 2014 and 2015 as discussed above. Investment costs associated with capitalized patent costs and acquisition of patent costs decreased to $49.8 million in 2015 from $58.2 million in 2014 , primarily due to a decreased investment in patent acquisitions in 2015 . Additionally, we made strategic investments of $12.6 million in 2015. Net cash provided by financing activities increased by $352.0 million in 2015 primarily due to the net proceeds of $306.7 million from the issuance and sale of the 2020 Notes, a decrease in repurchases of common stock of $56.2 million , an increase in other financing activities of $6.5 million and an increase in proceeds from non-controlling interests of $4.3 million , partially offset by $16.5 million of net costs for the bond hedge and warrant transactions and an increase in dividend payments of $5.2 million . Other Our combined short-term and long-term deferred revenue balance at December 31, 2015 was approximately $395.3 million , a decrease of $22.8 million from December 31, 2014 . We have no material obligations associated with such deferred revenue. The decrease in deferred revenue was primarily due to $163.4 million of deferred revenue recognized, which was partially offset by a gross increase in deferred revenue of $114.0 million , primarily associated with the new agreements discussed above. Also included within our deferred revenue balance at December 31, 2015 was $26.6 million of non-cash consideration received in conjunction with the new patent license agreements signed during 2015. This deferred revenue recognized was comprised of $131.8 million of amortized fixed-fee royalty payments and $31.6 million in per-unit exhaustion of prepaid royalties (based upon royalty reports provided by our licensees). Based on current license agreements, we expect the amortization of fixed-fee royalty payments to reduce the December 31, 2015 deferred revenue balance of $395.3 million by $106.2 million over the next twelve months. Additional reductions to deferred revenue over the next twelve months will be dependent upon the level of per-unit royalties our licensees report against prepaid balances. Contractual Obligations On April 4, 2011, InterDigital entered into an indenture by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, pursuant to which the 2016 Notes were issued. The 2016 Notes bear interest at a rate of 2.50% per year, payable in cash on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing September 15, 2011. The Notes will mature on March 15, 2016, unless earlier converted or repurchased. 49 Table of Contents On March 11, 2015, InterDigital entered into an indenture, by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, pursuant to which the 2020 Notes were issued. The 2020 Notes bear interest at a rate of 1.50% per year, payable in cash on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing September 1, 2015, and mature on March 1, 2020, unless earlier converted or repurchased. For more information on the Notes, see Note 6, Obligations , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Thereafter 2016 Notes $ 230,000 $ 230,000 $ $ $ 2020 Notes 316,000 316,000 Contractual interest payments on the Notes 24,205 7,615 9,480 7,110 Operating lease obligations 22,925 4,186 6,091 4,868 7,781 Purchase obligations (a) 25,200 25,200 Total contractual obligations $ 618,330 $ 267,001 $ 15,571 $ 327,978 $ 7,781 (a) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services that are legally binding on us, as well as accounts payable. Our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2015 includes a $1.5 million noncurrent liability for uncertain tax positions. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2015 Compared with 2014 Revenues The following table compares 2015 revenues to 2014 revenues (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (Decrease)/Increase Per-unit royalty revenue $ 234,836 $ 157,250 $ 77,586 49 % Fixed-fee amortized royalty revenue 131,837 121,903 9,934 8 % Current patent royalties a 366,673 279,153 87,520 31 % Past patent royalties b 65,814 124,236 (58,422 ) (47 )% Total patent licensing royalties 432,487 403,389 29,098 7 % Patent sales 1,999 (1,999 ) 100 % Current technology solutions revenue a 6,096 9,633 (3,537 ) (37 )% Past technology solutions revenue b 2,852 800 2,052 257 % Total revenue $ 441,435 $ 415,821 $ 25,614 6 % a. Recurring revenues consist of current patent royalties and current technology solutions revenue. b. Past sales consist of past patent royalties and past technology solutions revenue. The $25.6 million increase in total revenue was primarily attributable to the $87.5 million increase in current patent royalties. The increase of per-unit royalty revenue of $77.6 million was primarily related to increased shipments by Pegatron and other Taiwan-based licensees. The $9.9 million increase in fixed-fee amortized royalty revenue was primarily attributable 50 to new patent license agreements signed during second quarter 2014. The increase in total revenue was also partially attributable to an increase in past technology solutions revenue of $2.1 million related to the settlement agreement signed during 2015, as discussed above. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $58.4 million in past patent royalties. The decrease in past sales was primarily related to three new patent license agreements signed during second quarter 2014, partially offset by past sales in the current year period attributable to the new agreements discussed above. Additionally, current technology solutions revenue decreased by $3.5 million primarily due to decreased shipments of covered products by one of our technology solutions customers. Patent sales decreased by $2.0 million due to the absence of any patent sales in 2015. In 2015 and 2014 , 61% and 51% of our total revenues, respectively, were attributable to companies that individually accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. In 2015 and 2014 , the following licensees or customers accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues: For the Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Pegatron a 31% 18% Samsung b 16% 33% Sony c 14% < 10% a. We are engaged in a legal dispute with Pegatron, a Taiwan-based company, regarding, among other things, the terms of our patent license agreement, and we are the subject of an investigation by the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission. See Note 8, Litigation and Legal Proceedings, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. b. 2014 revenues include $86.3 million of past patent royalties. c. 2015 revenues include $21.9 million of past patent royalties. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes the change in operating expenses by category (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Increase/(Decrease) Patent administration and licensing $ 120,401 $ 133,808 $ (13,407 ) (10 )% Development 72,702 75,300 (2,598 ) (3 )% Selling, general and administrative 39,783 37,753 2,030 5 % Total operating expenses $ 232,886 $ 246,861 $ (13,975 ) (6 )% Operating expenses decreased 6% to $232.9 million in 2015 from $246.9 million in 2014 . The $14.0 million decrease in total operating expenses was primarily due to (decreases)/increases in the following items (in thousands): (Decrease)/ Increase Intellectual property enforcement and non-patent litigation $ (19,572 ) Performance-based incentive compensation (4,165 ) Consulting services (1,022 ) Cost of patent sales (700 ) Personnel-related costs (634 ) Bad debt expense (392 ) Other (86 ) Depreciation and amortization 5,675 Commercial initiatives 6,921 Total decrease in operating expenses $ (13,975 ) 51 The $14.0 million decrease in operating expenses was primarily attributable to the $19.6 million decrease in intellectual property enforcement and non-patent litigation primarily related to decreased costs associated with the USITC actions, which was partially offset by costs associated with licensee arbitrations. The $4.2 million decrease in performance-based incentive compensation, including both short-term and long-term compensation, was primarily attributable to higher accrual rate true-ups in 2014 as a result of new license agreements signed during 2014. The $1.0 million decrease in consulting services primarily resulted from a reduction in the use of external resources for research and development projects. The $0.7 million decrease in cost of patent sales was due to the absence of patent sales in 2015. Personnel-related costs decreased $0.6 million primarily due to a prior year adjustment related to payroll taxes and employment level tax credits, primarily as a result of an ongoing audit. Bad debt expense decreased $0.4 million as a result of the settlement agreement with the technology solutions customer signed during 2015, as discussed above. The $5.7 million increase in depreciation and amortization was primarily due to patent acquisitions made during the past two years, along with the organic annual growth of our patent portfolio. The $6.9 million increase in commercial initiatives expense was attributable to activities to commercialize IoT and next generation networks technologies. Patent administration and licensing expense: The $13.4 million decrease in patent administration and licensing expense primarily resulted from the above-noted decreases in intellectual property enforcement and performance-based incentive compensation, partially offset by increases in patent amortization and patent maintenance and evaluation costs primarily related to the increased growth of the patent portfolio due to patents acquired pursuant to the new agreements as discussed above. Development expense: The $2.6 million decrease in development expense was primarily attributable to the above-noted decreases in performance-based incentive compensation, consulting services and personnel costs, partially offset by an increase in costs related to commercial initiatives as described above. Selling, general and administrative expense: The $2.0 million increase in selling, general and administrative expense was primarily attributable to increases in personnel-related costs and consulting services primarily related to corporate and commercial initiatives. Other (Expense) Income The following table compares 2015 other (expense) income to 2014 other (expense) income (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (Decrease)/Increase Interest expense $ (30,417 ) $ (16,084 ) $ (14,333 ) 89 % Interest and investment income 3,858 1,399 2,459 176 % Other a (975 ) (747 ) (228 ) 31 % $ (27,534 ) $ (15,432 ) $ (12,102 ) 78 % (a) Includes other-than-temporary impairments. The change in other expenses is primarily driven by the increase in interest expense resulting from the 2020 Notes issued during first quarter 2015, partially offset by $1.8 million of interest income related to the settlement agreement with a technology solutions customer, as discussed above. Income Taxes In 2015, our effective tax rate was approximately 35.7% as compared to 33.9% in 2014, based on the statutory federal tax rate net of discrete federal and state taxes. The increase in the effective tax rate from 2014 to 2015 resulted primarily from the 2014 net benefit received from research and development tax credits covering the periods 2010 through 2014. The inclusion of additional periods in 2014 accounted for a 2.7% lower effective tax rate in 2014. This benefit in 2014 was partially offset by a 1% effective tax rate increase resulting from higher audit settlements in 2014. 2014 Compared with 2013 52 Table of Contents Revenues The following table compares 2014 revenues to 2013 revenues (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 Increase/ (Decrease) Per-unit royalty revenue $ 157,250 $ 122,709 $ 34,541 28 % Fixed-fee amortized royalty revenue 121,903 67,658 54,245 80 % Current patent royalties a 279,153 190,367 88,786 47 % Past patent royalties b 124,236 73,808 50,428 68 % Total patent licensing royalties 403,389 264,175 139,214 53 % Patent sales 1,999 1,999 100 % Current technology solutions revenue a 9,633 7,960 1,673 21 % Past technology solutions revenue b 800 53,226 (52,426 ) (98 )% Total revenue $ 415,821 $ 325,361 $ 90,460 28 % a. Recurring revenues consist of current patent royalties and current technology solutions revenue. b. Past sales consist of past patent royalties and past technology solutions revenue. The $90.5 million increase in total revenue was primarily attributable to the $88.8 million increase in current patent royalties and a $50.4 million increase in past patent royalties. New patent license agreements signed during 2014 contributed $186.1 million in total to the increased fixed-fee and past patent royalties. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $13.6 million in fixed-fee amortized royalty revenue related to agreements that have expired or were terminated in 2014, and past patent royalties in 2013 included approximately $71.4 million recognized as a result of arbitration awards received in 2013. Additionally, per-unit royalty revenue increased $34.5 million, and was primarily related to a $49.8 million increase associated with increased shipments by, and the coverage of additional products under, our agreement with Pegatron. This increase in per-unit royalties from Pegatron was partially offset by a total decrease of $15.3 million attributable to certain of our other per-unit licensees with concentrations in the smartphone market. Current technology solutions revenue increased by $1.7 million primarily due to the inclusion of royalties on certain products upon the resolution in 2013 of our arbitration with Intel Mobile Communications GmbH ("Intel"). These increases were partially offset by a decrease in past technology solutions revenue of $52.4 million, primarily due to revenue that was recognized in 2013 as a result of the award received upon the resolution of the Intel arbitration. In 2014 and 2013, 51% and 60% of our total revenues, respectively, were attributable to companies that individually accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. In 2014 and 2013, the following licensees or customers accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues: For the Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 Samsung a 33% % Pegatron b 18% 30% Intel c < 10% 18% Sony < 10% 12% (a) 2014 revenues include $86.3 million of past patent royalties. (b) 2013 revenues include $71.4 million of past patent royalties. (c) 2013 revenues include $53.3 million of past technology solutions revenue. 53 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table summarizes the change in operating expenses by category (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 Increase/(Decrease) Patent administration and licensing $ 133,808 $ 143,037 $ (9,229 ) (6 )% Development 75,300 64,729 10,571 16 % Selling, general and administrative 37,753 31,295 6,458 21 % Repositioning 1,544 (1,544 ) (100 )% Total operating expenses $ 246,861 $ 240,605 $ 6,256 3 % Operating expenses increased 3% to $246.9 million in 2014 from $240.6 million in 2013. The $6.3 million increase in total operating expenses was primarily due to increases/(decreases) in the following items (in thousands): Increase/ (Decrease) Performance-based incentive compensation $ 13,441 Depreciation and amortization 8,490 Consulting services 4,603 Commercial initiatives and Signal Trust 4,460 Personnel-related costs 1,844 Cost of patent sales 700 Other 120 Patent maintenance and evaluation (2,963 ) Intellectual property enforcement (22,895 ) Total decrease in operating expenses not including repositioning charge 7,800 Repositioning charge (1,544 ) Total decrease in operating expenses $ 6,256 The $13.4 million increase in performance-based incentive compensation, including both short-term and long-term compensation, was primarily attributable to both a true-up to increase the beginning period compensation to the current accrual rate and higher accrual rates in 2014 as compared to significantly lower accrual rates in 2013. The $8.5 million increase in depreciation and amortization was primarily due to patent acquisitions made during the past two years, along with the organic annual growth of our patent portfolio. The $4.6 million increase in consulting services was primarily related to the support of research and development projects and corporate initiatives that have ramped up during 2014. The $4.5 million increase in commercial initiatives and Signal Trust expense was related to a new commercial initiative launched in 2014 and the Signal Trust, which was created in fourth quarter 2013. Personnel-related costs increased $1.8 million primarily due to hiring activity during 2014. The $0.7 million increase in cost of patent sales was related to patents sold during 2014, and represents the remaining net book value of the patents sold. The $3.0 million decrease in patent maintenance and evaluation costs was primarily related to decreased due diligence costs associated with both patent acquisition and patent sale activities. The $22.9 million decrease in intellectual property enforcement and non-patent litigation primarily related to decreased costs associated with the USITC actions and licensee arbitrations. Patent administration and licensing expense: The $9.2 million decrease in patent administration and licensing expense primarily resulted from the above-noted decreases in intellectual property enforcement and patent maintenance and evaluation costs, partially offset by increases in performance-based incentive compensation and patent amortization described above. Development expense: The $10.6 million increase in development expense was primarily attributable to the above-noted increases in performance-based compensation, consulting services, and costs related to commercial initiatives and the Signal Trust as described above. Selling, general and administrative expense: The $6.5 million increase in selling, general and administrative expense was primarily attributable to the above-noted increases in performance-based compensation and personnel-related costs. 54 Table of Contents Repositioning expense: As part of our ongoing expense management, we initiated a Voluntary Early Retirement Program ("VERP") in September 2012. Approximately 60 employees elected to participate in the VERP across five locations. We incurred charges of zero and $1.5 million relating to the VERP in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Other (Expense) Income The following table compares 2014 other (expense) income to 2013 other (expense) income (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 (Decrease)/Increase Interest expense $ (16,084 ) $ (15,475 ) $ (609 ) 4 % Other (a) (747 ) (22,058 ) 21,311 (97 )% Interest and investment income 1,399 14,296 (12,897 ) (90 )% $ (15,432 ) $ (23,237 ) $ 7,805 (34 )% (a) Includes other-than-temporary impairments. The change in other expense primarily resulted from the recognition of a $21.7 million investment impairment on our investment in Pantech Co., Ltd. ("Pantech") during 2013, partially offset by a decrease in investment income attributable to $11.8 million of interest income associated with arbitration awards received during 2013. Income Taxes In 2014, our effective tax rate was approximately 33.9% as compared to 42.0% in 2013, based on the statutory federal tax rate net of discrete federal and state taxes. The decrease in the effective tax rate from 2013 to 2014 was attributable to a net benefit from research and development tax credits covering the periods 2010 through 2014 resulting in a 3.8% lower effective tax rate, which was partially offset by a 1.1% effective tax rate increase associated with an audit settlement. The decrease in the effective tax rate also resulted a 4% reduction in effective tax rate associated with the impact of lower state tax expense resulting, in part, from the Company's income mix between patent licensing royalties and technology solutions revenue. STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 - FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements include certain information in Part I, Item 1. Business and Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other information regarding our current beliefs, plans and expectations, including without limitation the matters set forth below. Words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, forecast, believe, could, would, should, if, may, might, future, target, goal, trend, seek to, will continue, predict, likely, in the event, variations of any such words or similar expressions contained herein are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, without limitation, statements regarding: (i) Our objective to continue to be a leading designer and developer of technology solutions and intellectual property for the mobile industry and to monetize those solutions and intellectual property through a combination of licensing, sales and other revenue opportunities; (ii) Our plans for executing on our business strategy, including our plans to develop and source innovative technologies related to wireless, establish and grow our patent-based revenue, pursue commercial opportunities for our advanced platforms and solutions, and maintain a collaborative relationship with key industry players and worldwide standards bodies; (iii) Our belief that our portfolio includes a number of patents and patent applications that are or may be essential or may become essential to cellular and other wireless standards, including 3G, 4G and the IEEE 802 suite of standards, as well as patent applications that we believe may become essential to 5G standards that are under development; (iv) Our belief that a number of our CDMA and OFDM/OFDMA inventions are, may be or may become essential to the implementation of CDMA and OFDM/OFDMA-based systems in use today; 55 Table of Contents (v) Our belief that companies making, importing, using or selling products compliant with the standards covered by our patent portfolio require a license under our patents and will require a license under patents that may issue from our pending patent applications; (vi) Our belief that our ongoing research efforts and associated patenting activities enable us to sell patent assets that are not vital to our core licensing programs, as well as to execute patent swaps that can strengthen our overall portfolio; (vii) Our belief that our standalone commercial initiatives are potential sources of revenue; (viii) The predicted increases in worldwide mobile device shipments, including shipments of handsets, and the estimated growth of the IoT market, including the size of the connected device installed base and number of connected device shipments, over the next several years; (ix) The types of licensing arrangements and various royalty structure models that we anticipate using under our future license agreements; (x) The possible outcome of audits of our license agreements when underreporting or underpayment is revealed; (xi) Our belief that our facilities are suitable and adequate for our present purposes and our needs in the near future; (xii) Our expectation that the transfer to Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, of our King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, personnel and operations will occur in second quarter 2016; (xiii) Our expectation that we will continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock comparable to our quarterly $.20 per share cash dividend in the future; (xiv) Our belief that intellectual property enforcement costs will likely continue to be a significant expense for us in the future; (xv) Our belief that our available sources of funds will be sufficient to finance our operations, capital requirements, debt obligations, existing stock repurchase program and dividend program for the next twelve months; (xvi) The potential effects of new accounting standards on our financial statements or results of operations; (xvii) Our expectations with regard to any current tax audits; (xiii) The expected amortization of fixed-fee royalty payments over the next twelve months to reduce our deferred revenue balance; (xix) Our anticipated severance charge in the range of $1.5 million to $2.0 million during first quarter 2016 related to ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure; and (xx) The expected timing, outcome and impact of our various litigation, arbitration and administrative matters. Although the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements concerning our business, results of operations and financial condition are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. We caution readers that actual results and outcomes could differ materially from those expressed in or anticipated by such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the following: (i) unanticipated difficulties or delays related to the further development of our technologies; (ii) the failure of the markets for our technologies to materialize to the extent or at the rate that we expect; (iii) changes in our plans, strategy or initiatives; (iv) the challenges related to entering into new and renewed patent license agreements and unanticipated delays, difficulties or acceleration in the negotiation and execution of patent license agreements; (v) our ability to leverage our strategic relationships and secure new patent license and technology solutions agreements on acceptable terms; (vi) the impact of current trends in the industry that could result in reductions in and/or caps on royalty rates under new patent license agreements; (vii) changes in the market share and sales performance of our primary licensees, delays in product shipments of our licensees, delays in the timely receipt and final reviews of quarterly royalty reports from our licensees, delays in payments from our licensees and related matters; 56 Table of Contents (viii) the timing and/or outcome of our various litigation, arbitration, regulatory or administrative proceedings, including any awards or judgments relating to such proceedings, additional legal proceedings, changes in the schedules or costs associated with legal proceedings or adverse rulings in such legal proceedings; (ix) the determination of royalty rates, or other terms, under our patent license agreements through arbitration or other third party adjudications, or the establishment by arbitrators or other third party adjudicators of patent royalty rates at levels lower than our agreed or historical rates; (x) the impact of potential patent legislation, USPTO rule changes and international patent rule changes on our patent prosecution and licensing strategies; (xi) the impact of rulings in legal proceedings, potential legislation affecting the jurisdiction and authority of the USITC and potential changes to the IPR policies of worldwide standards bodies on our investments in research and development and our strategies for patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement; (xii) the timing and/or outcome of any state or federal tax examinations or audits, changes in tax laws and the resulting impact on our tax assets and liabilities; (xiii) the effects of any dispositions, acquisitions or other strategic transactions by the Company; (xiv) decreased liquidity in the capital markets; and (xv) unanticipated increases in our cash needs or decreases in available cash. You should carefully consider these factors as well as the risks and uncertainties outlined in greater detail in Part I, Item 1A, in this Form 10-K before making any investment decision with respect to our common stock. These factors, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expected and historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. In addition, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein, which are made only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as otherwise required by law.