Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Revenue Recognition - Patent License Agreements . Licensing Through Platforms As part of the Technicolor Patent Acquisition, we assumed Technicolor's rights and obligations under a joint licensing program with Sony relating to digital televisions ("DTVs") and standalone computer display monitors ("CDMs") (such program, the "Madison Arrangement"), including Technicolor's role as sole licensing agent. Under the Madison Arrangement, Technicolor and Sony combined portions of their respective DTV and CDM patent portfolios and created a combined licensing opportunity to DTV and CDM manufacturers. As licensing agent for the Madison Arrangement, we are responsible for making decisions regarding the prosecution and maintenance of the combined patent portfolio and the licensing and enforcement of the combined patent portfolio in the field of use of DTVs and CDMs. Refer to Note 5, " Business Combinations and Other Transactions ," within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about the Madison Arrangement. In third quarter 2016, InterDigital joined Avanci, the industrys first marketplace for the licensing of cellular standards-essential technology for the IoT. The licensing platform brings together some of InterDigitals peers in standards-essential technology leadership, and makes 2G, 3G, 4G and 5G standards-essential patents available to IoT players in specific product segments with one flat-rate license. The Avanci licensing programs in specific product segments for the IoT industry will provide access to the entire applicable standards-essential wireless patent portfolios held by all of the platform participants, as well as any additions to their portfolios during the term of the license. Since December 2017, Avanci has announced signed patent license agreements with BMW Group, Audi and Porsche, the Volkswagen Group Companies and Volvo Cars. In 2013, InterDigital formed the Signal Trust for Wireless Innovation (the "Signal Trust"). The goal of the Signal Trust is to monetize a large patent portfolio related to cellular infrastructure. More than 500 patents and patent applications were transferred from InterDigital to the Signal Trust, focusing primarily on 3G and LTE technologies and developed by InterDigital's engineers and researchers over more than a decade. A number of these innovations have been contributed to the worldwide standards process, resulting in a portfolio that includes patents for pioneering inventions that we believe are used pervasively in the cellular wireless industry. InterDigital is the primary beneficiary of the Signal Trust. The distributions from the Signal Trust will support continued research related to cellular wireless technologies. A small portion of the proceeds from the Signal Trust are used to fund, through the Signal Foundation for Wireless Innovation, scholarly analysis of intellectual property rights and the technological, commercial and creative innovations they facilitate. Patent Sales We also pursue, on occasion, targeted sales of portions of our patent portfolio. This strategy is based on the expectation that our portfolio and continued research efforts extend well beyond the requirements for a successful licensing program. In addition, the strategy leverages the desire from new entrants in the mobile technology space to build strong intellectual property positions to support their businesses. Other Potential Revenue Opportunities Our strong technology expertise and research and development team also form the basis for other potential revenue opportunities, focused around areas such as engineering services, research joint ventures and the continued development, commercialization and licensing of research and development projects that have progressed to a pre-commercial or commercial phase. We also currently recognize revenue from the licensing of technology that has been developed by our engineering teams and is integrated into other companies technology products. 7 Table of Contents In all of its technology areas, InterDigital works to incubate and commercialize market-ready technologies. These include technologies that were developed as part of our standards development efforts, as well as technologies developed outside the scope of those efforts. Those commercial efforts sometimes include the establishment of a separate commercial initiative focused on the specific opportunity. Although these initiatives are in their early stages, they are potential revenue opportunities for the Company. In 2012, we formed a joint venture with Sony called Convida Wireless. The joint venture combined InterDigital's advanced M2M research capabilities with Sony's consumer electronics expertise with the purpose of driving new research in IoT communications and other connectivity areas. This joint venture was renewed in 2015 with its focus expanded to include advanced research and development into 5G and future wireless technologies, and further renewed in 2018. Overview of Wireless Communications and Consumer Electronics Industries The wireless communications industry continues to be significant worldwide, and the number of device types entering the market is growing. For example, the introduction of 5G wireless networks is expected to drive a significant upgrade cycle for mobile phones, and 5G technology is expected to be implemented in an expanding range of products. In particular, IoT is an important new market that is expected to result in a significant increase in the number of connected devices worldwide and unlock new business capabilities. IoT is still in its early stages, and estimates vary broadly as far as how many connections it will yield, but by some estimates there could be as many as 120 billion connected devices by 2030, a significant portion of which is expected to comprise cellular IoT devices. According to data from IHS Markit, more than 2 billion devices in the video, audio and IoT/other technology areas were shipped in 2019. Those devices include TV displays, computer displays, set-top boxes, gaming consoles, wireless assistants and headphones, wearables, smart home devices, and other types of consumer electronic devices that implement video or wireless technology, or a combination of both. The consumer electronics industry is also experiencing significant change, as technology-enabled services such as video streaming and 4K UHD video are being adopted globally. To achieve economies of scale and support interoperability among different participants, products for the wireless industry have typically been designed to operate in accordance with certain standards. Industry standards are formal guidelines for engineers, designers, manufacturers and service providers that regulate and define the use of the radio frequency spectrum in conjunction with providing detailed specifications for wireless communications products. A primary goal of the standards is to ensure interoperability of products marketed by multiple companies. A large number of international and regional wireless SDOs, including the ITU, ETSI, TIA (USA), IEEE, ATIS (USA), TTA (Korea), ARIB (Japan) and ANSI, have responsibility for the development and administration of wireless communications standards. New standards are typically adopted with each new generation of products, are often compatible with previous generations and are defined to ensure equipment interoperability and regulatory compliance. The consumer electronics industry also implements many of the same standards, including standards related to Wi-Fi and increasingly, cellular technologies, as well as a broad range of video coding standards that are governed by regional and global SDOs. SDOs typically ask participating companies to declare formally whether they believe they hold patents or patent applications essential to a particular standard and whether they are willing to license those patents on either a royalty-bearing basis on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms or on a royalty-free basis. To manufacture, have made, sell, offer to sell or use such products on a non-infringing basis, a manufacturer or other entity doing so must first obtain a license from the holder of essential patent rights. The SDOs do not have enforcement authority against entities that fail to obtain required licenses, nor do they have the ability to protect the intellectual property rights of holders of essential patents. InterDigital often publicly characterizes aspects of its business, including license agreements and development projects, as pertaining to mobile industry standards such as, for example, 3G, 4G, 5G, Wi-Fi and HEVC. In doing this, we generally rely on the positions of the applicable SDOs in defining the relevant standards. However, the definitions may evolve or change over time, including after we have characterized certain transactions. Business Activities 2019 Patent Licensing Activity Direct Licenses During fourth quarter 2019, we entered into a multi-year, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-bearing patent license and settlement agreement with ZTE. The agreement covers the sale of ZTE's 3G, 4G and 5G handset and tablet products, as well as 802.11 and HEVC technologies incorporated into such products. 8 Table of Contents Also during fourth quarter 2019, we entered into a multi-year, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-bearing patent license agreement with u-blox AG ("u-blox"). The agreement covers the sale of u-blox's 3G and 4G machine to machine modules and certain consumer modules. During second quarter 2019, we entered into a multi-year, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-bearing patent license agreement with Teltronic S.A.U. ("Teltronic"). The agreement covers the sale of Teltronic's 4G terminal units as well as 3G and 4G infrastructure equipment. Also during second quarter 2019, we entered into a Settlement Agreement and First Amendment to the Patent License Agreement with Asustek Computer Incorporated ("Asus"). The agreement provides for, among other things, a multi-year amendment to our 2008 patent license agreement with Asus (the "2008 Asus PLA") that adds coverage for 4G technologies and amends certain other terms of the 2008 Asus PLA. Licenses Through Platforms During fourth quarter 2019, Google was granted a multi-year, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-bearing patent license covering the sale of certain of its 3G and 4G mobile communication devices. We entered into this agreement through a licensing platform. Also during fourth quarter 2019, as part of the Madison Arrangement, we entered into a multi-year, non-exclusive, royalty-bearing patent license agreement with Funai Electric Co., Ltd. ("Funai"). The agreement covers the U.S. sales of Funai's DTVs. During 2019, Avanci announced that it entered into several patent license agreements with new licensees, including Audi and Porsche, the Volkswagen Group Companies and Volvo Cars . Customers Generating Revenues Exceeding 10% of Total 2019 Revenues Apple, Samsung and LG Electronics comprised approximately 35%, 25% and 10% of our total 2019 revenues, respectively. In 2016, we entered into a multi-year, royalty-bearing, worldwide and non-exclusive patent license agreement with Apple (the Apple PLA). The agreement sets forth terms covering the sale by Apple of its products and services, including, but not limited to, its 3G, 4G and future generation cellular and wireless-enabled products. The Apple PLA gives Apple the right to terminate certain rights and obligations under the license for the period after September 30, 2021, but has the potential to provide a license to Apple for a total of up to six years. During 2019, we recognized a total of $111.7 million of revenue associated with the Apple PLA under ASC 606. In 2014, we entered into a patent license agreement with Samsung (the Samsung PLA). The royalty-bearing license agreement sets forth terms covering the sale by Samsung of 3G, 4G and certain future generation wireless products. The Samsung PLA provided Samsung the right to terminate certain rights and obligations under the license for the period after 2017 but had the potential to provide a license to Samsung for a total of ten years, including 2013. Samsung did not elect to terminate such rights and obligations, and the period for such election has expired. Accordingly, the term of the Samsung PLA ends on December 31, 2022. During 2019, we recognized a total of $78.3 million of revenue associated with the Samsung PLA under ASC 606. In 2017, we entered into a multi-year, worldwide, non-exclusive patent license agreement with LG (the LG PLA), a global leader and technology innovator in consumer electronics, mobile communications and home appliances. The LG PLA covers the 3G, 4G and 5G terminal unit products of LG and its affiliates and sets forth a royalty of cash payments to InterDigital as well as a process for the transfer of patents from LG to InterDigital. The term of the LG PLA expires on December 31, 2020. During 2019, we recognized a total of $31.8 million of revenue associated with the LG PLA under ASC 606. Patent Infringement and Declaratory Judgment Proceedings From time to time, if we believe a party is required to license our patents in order to manufacture, use and/or sell certain products and such party refuses to do so, we may agree with such party to have royalty rates, or other terms, set by third party adjudicators (such as arbitrators) or, in certain circumstances, we may institute legal action against them. This legal action has typically taken the form of a patent infringement lawsuit or an administrative proceeding such as a Section 337 proceeding before the United States International Trade Commission ("USITC" or the "Commission"). In a patent infringement lawsuit, we would typically seek damages for past infringement and an injunction against future infringement. In a USITC proceeding, we would seek an exclusion order to bar infringing goods from entry into the United States, as well as a cease and desist order to bar further sales of infringing goods that have already been imported into the United States. Parties 9 Table of Contents may bring administrative and/or judicial challenges to the validity, enforceability, essentiality and/or applicability of our patents to their products. Parties may also allege that our efforts to enter into a license with that party do not comply with any obligations we may have in connection with our participation in standards-setting organizations, and therefore that we are not entitled to the relief that we seek. For example, a party may allege that we have not complied with an obligation to offer (or be prepared to offer) a license to that party for patents that are or may become standards-essential patents ("SEPs") on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory ("FRAND") terms and conditions, and may also file antitrust claims or regulatory complaints on that or other bases, and may seek damages or other relief based on such claims. In addition, a party might file a declaratory judgment action to seek a court's declaration that our patents are invalid, unenforceable, not infringed by the other party's products or are not SEPs. Our response to such a declaratory judgment action may include claims of infringement. When we include claims of infringement in a patent infringement lawsuit, a favorable ruling for the Company can result in the payment of damages for past patent royalties, the setting of a royalty for future sales or issuance by the court of an injunction enjoining the infringer from manufacturing, using and/or selling the infringing product. Contractual Arbitration Proceedings We and our licensees, in the normal course of business, may have disagreements as to the rights and obligations of the parties under applicable agreements. For example, we could have a disagreement with a licensee as to the amount of reported sales and royalties. Our patent license agreements typically provide for audit rights as well as private confidential arbitration as the mechanism for resolving disputes, and we may attempt to resolve such disputes in arbitration. In arbitration, licensees may seek to assert various claims, defenses, or counterclaims, such as claims based on waiver, promissory estoppel, breach of contract, fraudulent inducement to contract, antitrust, and unfair competition. Arbitration proceedings can be resolved through an award rendered by the arbitrators or by settlement between the parties. Parties to arbitration might have the right to have the award reviewed in a court of competent jurisdiction. However, based on public policy favoring the use of arbitration, it is generally difficult to have arbitration awards vacated or modified. The party securing an arbitration award may seek to have that award confirmed as a judgment through an enforcement proceeding. The purpose of such a proceeding is to secure a judgment that can be used for, if need be, seizing assets of the other party. In addition, arbitration may be a particularly effective means for resolving disputes with prospective licensees concerning the appropriate FRAND terms and conditions for license agreements that include SEPs, particularly where negotiations have otherwise reached an impasse. Binding arbitration to resolve the terms and conditions of a worldwide FRAND license to our relevant portfolio of SEPs is an efficient and cost-effective mechanism, as it allows the parties to avoid piecemeal litigation in multiple jurisdictions and ensures that an enforceable patent license agreement that is consistent with FRAND commitments will be in place at the end of the arbitration process. Competition With respect to our technology development activities and resulting commercialization efforts, we face competition from companies, including in-house development teams at other wireless and consumer electronics device companies, semiconductor companies and wireless operators, developing other and similar technologies that are competitive with our products and solutions that we may market or set forth into the standards-setting arena. Due to the exclusionary nature of patent rights, we do not compete, in a traditional sense, with other patent holders for patent licensing relationships or sale transactions. Other patent holders do not have the same rights to the inventions and technologies encompassed by our patent portfolio. In any device or piece of equipment that contains intellectual property, the manufacturer may need to obtain licenses from multiple holders of intellectual property. In licensing our patent portfolio, we compete with other patent holders for a share of the royalties that certain licensees may argue to be the total royalty that is supported by a certain product or products, which may face practical limitations. We believe that licenses under a number of our patents are required to manufacture and sell 3G, 4G, 5G and other wireless products, as well as other consumer electronics devices. However, numerous companies also claim that they hold patents that are or may be essential or may become essential to standards-based technology deployed on wireless products and other consumer electronics devices. To the extent that multiple parties all seek royalties on the same product, the manufacturers could claim to have difficulty in meeting the financial requirements of each patent holder. In the past, certain manufacturers have sought antitrust exemptions to act collectively on a voluntary basis. In addition, certain manufacturers have sought to limit aggregate licensing fees or rates for SEPs. Similarly, potential purchasers of our patents often amass patent portfolios for defensive and/or cross-licensing purposes and could choose to acquire patent assets within the same general technology space from other patent holders. Employees As of December 31, 2019 , we had approximately 487 employees, including approximately 206 employees in France who were subject to collective bargaining arrangements. We consider our employee relations to be good. 10 Table of Contents Geographic Concentrations See Note 4, " Geographic/Customer Concentration ," in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K for financial information about geographic areas for the last three years. Corporate Information The ultimate predecessor company of InterDigital, Inc. was incorporated in 1972 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and conducted its initial public offering in November 1981. Our headquarters are located in Wilmington, Delaware, USA. Our research and development activities are conducted primarily in facilities located in Berlin, Germany; Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, USA; London, United Kingdom; Montreal, Canada; New York, New York, USA; Palo Alto, California, USA; Rennes, France; and San Diego, California, USA. We are also a party to leases for several smaller research and/or office spaces, including in Brussels, Belgium; Buffalo, New York, USA; Indianapolis, Indiana, USA; Paris, France; San Francisco, California, USA; and Shanghai, China. In addition, we own a building in Washington, District of Columbia, USA, that houses administrative office space. Our Internet address is www.interdigital.com , where, in the "Investors" section , we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, certain other reports and filings required to be filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and all amendments to those reports or filings as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We face a variety of risks that may affect our business, financial condition, operating results, the trading price of our common stock, or any combination thereof. You should carefully consider the following information and the other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating our business and prospects and before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business Our plans to license handset manufacturers in China may be adversely affected by a deterioration in United States-China trade and geopolitical relations, our customers facing economic uncertainty there or our failure to establish a positive reputation in China, which could materially adversely affect our long-term business, financial condition and operating results. Companies headquartered in China currently comprise a substantial portion of the handset manufacturers that remain unlicensed to our patent portfolio. Our ability to license such manufacturers is, among other things, affected by the macroeconomic and geopolitical climate, as well as our business relationships and perceived reputation in China. The U.S. and Chinese governments are currently engaged in trade negotiations, and the U.S. State Department issued a travel advisory in January 2019 that advised U.S. citizens to exercise increased caution in China due to arbitrary enforcement of local laws. This travel advisory and other security concerns have restricted our ability to conduct in-person negotiations with prospective Chinese licensees in the past, and they, along with certain public health concerns (e.g., the current coronavirus outbreak), could do so in the future. In January 2020, the U.S. and China entered into Phase One of the Economic and Trade Agreement Between the United States of America and the People's Republic of China (the "Phase One Trade Agreement"). The Phase One Trade Agreement takes steps to ease certain trade tensions between the U.S. and China, including tensions involving intellectual property theft and forced intellectual property transfers by China. Although the Phase One Trade Agreement is an encouraging sign of progress in the trade negotiations between the U.S. and China, questions still remain as to the enforcement of its terms, the resolution of a number of other points of dispute between the parties, and the prevention of further tensions. If the U.S.-China trade dispute re-escalates or relations between the United States and China deteriorate, these conditions could adversely affect our ability to license our patent portfolio to Chinese handset manufacturers. Our ability to license such manufacturers could also be affected by economic uncertainty, particularly in the handset market, in China or by our failure to establish a positive reputation and relationships in China. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our ability to enter into license agreements with Chinese handset manufacturers, which, in turn, could cause our long-term business, financial condition and operating results to be materially adversely affected. Royalty rates, or other terms, under our patent license agreements could be subject to determination through arbitration or other third-party adjudications or regulatory or court proceedings, and arbitrators, judges or other third-party adjudicators 11 Table of Contents or regulators could determine that our patent royalty rates should be at levels lower than our agreed or historical rates or otherwise make determinations resulting in less favorable terms and conditions under our patent license agreements. Historically, we strive for the terms of our patent license agreements, including our royalty rates, to be reached through arms-length bilateral negotiations with our licensees. We could agree, as we did with Huawei pursuant to our December 2013 settlement agreement, to have royalty rates, or other terms, set by third party adjudicators (such as arbitrators) and it is also possible that courts or regulators could decide to set or otherwise determine the FRAND consistency of such terms or the manner in which such terms are determined, including by determining a worldwide royalty rate for our SEPs. Changes to or clarifications of our obligations to be prepared to offer licenses to SEPs on FRAND terms and conditions could require such terms, including our royalty rates, to be determined through third party adjudications. Finally, we and certain of our current and prospective licensees have initiated, and we and others could in the future initiate, legal proceedings or regulatory proceedings requesting third party adjudicators or regulators to set FRAND terms and conditions for, or determine the FRAND-consistency of current terms and conditions in, our patent license agreements, and which could result in such third party adjudicators or regulators determining a worldwide royalty rate for our SEPs. To the extent that our patent royalty rates for our patent license agreements are determined through arbitration or other third party adjudications or regulatory or court proceedings rather than through bilateral negotiations, because such proceedings are inherently unpredictable and uncertain and there are currently few precedents for such determinations, it is possible that royalty rates may be lower than our historical rates, and this could also have a negative impact on royalties we are able to obtain from future licensees, which may have an adverse effect on our revenue and cash flow. In addition, to the extent that other terms and conditions for our patent license agreements are determined through such means, such terms and conditions could be less favorable than our historical terms and conditions, which may have an adverse effect on our licensing business. Due to the nature of our business, we could continue to be involved in a number of costly litigation, arbitration and administrative proceedings to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights and to defend our licensing practices. While some companies seek licenses before they commence manufacturing and/or selling devices that use our patented inventions, most do not. Consequently, we approach companies and seek to establish license agreements for using our inventions. We expend significant time and effort identifying users and potential users of our inventions and negotiating license agreements with companies that may be reluctant to take licenses. However, if we believe that a third party is required to take a license to our patents in order to manufacture, sell, offer for sale, import or use products, we have in the past commenced, and may in the future, commence legal or administrative action against the third party if they refuse to enter into a license agreement with us. In turn, we have faced, and could continue to face, counterclaims and other legal proceedings that challenge the essential nature of our patents, or that claim that our patents are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. Litigation adversaries may allege that we have not complied with certain commitments to standards-setting organizations and therefore that we are not entitled to the relief that we seek. For example, a party may allege that we have not complied with an obligation to offer a license to a party on FRAND terms and conditions, and may also file antitrust claims, unfair competition claims or regulatory complaints on that or other bases, and may seek damages and other relief based on such claims. Litigation adversaries have also filed against us, and other third parties may in the future file, validity challenges such as inter partes proceedings in the USPTO, which can lead to delays of our patent infringement actions as well as potential findings of invalidity. Litigation may be also required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, enforce patent license and confidentiality agreements or determine the validity, enforceability and scope of proprietary rights of others. Third parties could commence litigation against us seeking to invalidate our patents or obtain a determination that our patents are not infringed, are not essential, are invalid or are unenforceable. In addition, current and prospective licensees have initiated proceedings against us claiming, and others in the future may claim, that we have not complied with our FRAND licensing commitments and/or engaged in anticompetitive or unfair licensing activities. The cost of enforcing and defending our intellectual property and of defending our licensing practices has been and may continue to be significant. As a result, we could be subject to significant legal fees and costs, including in certain jurisdictions the costs and fees of opposing counsel if we are unsuccessful. In addition, litigation, arbitration and administrative proceedings require significant key employee involvement for significant periods of time, which could divert these employees from other business activities. Potential patent and litigation reform legislation, potential USPTO and international patent rule changes, potential legislation affecting mechanisms for patent enforcement and available remedies, and potential changes to the intellectual property rights (IPR) policies of worldwide standards bodies, as well as rulings in legal proceedings, may affect our investments in research and development and our strategies for patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement and could have a material adverse effect on our licensing business as well as our business as a whole. 12 Table of Contents Potential changes to certain U.S. and international patent laws, rules and regulations may occur in the future, some or all of which may affect our research and development investments, patent prosecution costs, the scope of future patent coverage we secure, the number of forums in which we can seek to enforce our patents, the remedies that we may be entitled to in patent litigation, and attorneys fees or other remedies that could be sought against us, and may require us to reevaluate and modify our research and development activities and patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement strategies. Similarly, legislation designed to reduce the jurisdiction and remedial authority of the USITC has periodically been introduced in Congress. Any potential changes in the law, the IPR policies of standards bodies or other developments that reduce the number of forums available or the type of relief available in such forums (such as injunctive relief), restrict permissible licensing practices (such as our ability to license on a worldwide portfolio basis) or that otherwise cause us to seek alternative forums (such as arbitration or state court), would make it more difficult for us to enforce our patents, whether in adversarial proceedings or in negotiations. Because we have historically depended on the availability of certain forms of legal process to enforce our patents and obtain fair and adequate compensation for our investments in research and development and the unauthorized use of our intellectual property, developments that undermine our ability to do so could have a negative impact on future licensing efforts. Rulings in our legal proceedings as well as those of third parties may affect our strategies for patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement. For example, in recent years, the USITC and U.S. courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, have taken some actions that have been viewed as unfavorable to patentees, including us. Decisions that occur in the U.S. or in international forums may change the law applicable to various patent law issues, such as, for example, patentability, validity, claim construction, patent exhaustion, patent misuse, permissible licensing practices, available forums, and remedies such as damages and injunctive relief, in ways that are detrimental to the ability of patentees to enforce patents and obtain suitable relief. We continue to monitor and evaluate our strategies for prosecution, licensing and enforcement with regard to these developments; however, any resulting change in such strategies may have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Setbacks in defending our patent licensing practices could cause our cash flow and revenue to decline and could have an adverse effect on our licensing business. Adverse decisions in litigation or regulatory actions relating to our licensing practices, including, but not limited to, findings that we have not complied with our FRAND commitments and/or engaged in anticompetitive or unfair licensing activities or that any of our license agreements are void or unenforceable, could have an adverse impact on our cash flow and revenue. Regulatory bodies may assess fines in the event of adverse findings, and as part of court or arbitration proceedings, a judgment could require us to pay damages (including the possibility of treble damages for antitrust claims). In addition, to the extent that legal decisions find patent license agreements to be void or unenforceable in whole or in part, that could lead to a decrease in the revenue associated with and cash flow generated by such agreements, and, depending on the damages requested, could lead to the refund of certain payments already made. Finally, adverse legal decisions related to our licensing practices could have an adverse effect on our ability to enter into license agreements, which, in turn, could cause our cash flow and revenue to decline. Royalty rates could decrease for future license agreements due to downward product pricing pressures and competition over patent royalties. Royalty payments to us under future license agreements could be lower than anticipated. Certain licensees and others in the wireless and consumer electronics industries, individually and collectively, are demanding that royalty rates for patents be lower than historic royalty rates and/or that such rates should be applied to royalty bases smaller than the selling price of an end product (such as the smallest salable patent practicing unit). There is also increasing downward pricing pressure on certain wireless products, including handsets, and other consumer electronics devices that we believe implement our patented inventions, and some of our royalty rates are tied to the pricing of these devices. In addition, a number of other companies also claim to hold patents that are essential with respect to products we aim to license. Demands by certain licensees to reduce royalties due to pricing pressure or the number of patent holders seeking royalties on these technologies, could result in a decrease in the royalty rates we receive for use of our patented inventions, thereby decreasing future revenue and cash flow. Our plans to broaden our revenue opportunities through acquiring or developing technology in new or expanded areas, such as technologies in the consumer electronics and IoT spaces, and enhanced intellectual property sourcing and joint ventures, may not be successful and could materially adversely affect our long-term business, financial condition and operating results. As part of our business strategy, we are seeking to broaden our revenue opportunities through targeted acquisitions, research partnerships, joint ventures and the continued development of new technologies. Increasingly, our future growth in 13 Table of Contents part depends on developing or acquiring technology in new or expanded areas that are used on cellular devices (such as video coding technologies) and adjacent industry segments outside of traditional cellular industries (such as other consumer electronics devices and the IoT, including the connected home and smart cities, automotive, mobile computing, mobile health and sensor technology), and on third parties incorporating our technology and solutions into device types used in these areas and industry segments. There is no guarantee that we will succeed in acquiring or developing technology and patents or partnering with inventors and research organizations to create new revenue opportunities and/or add new dimensions to our existing portfolio of intellectual property and potentially create new patent licensing programs. Also, our development activities may experience delays, which could reduce our opportunities for patent licensing or other avenues of revenue generation related to such development activities. In the event that any of these risks materialize, our long-term business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Setbacks in defending and enforcing our patent rights could cause our revenue and cash flow to decline. Some third parties have challenged, and we expect will continue to challenge, the infringement, validity and enforceability of certain of our patents. In some instances, certain of our patent claims could be substantially narrowed or declared invalid, unenforceable, not essential or not infringed. We cannot ensure that the validity and enforceability of our patents will be maintained or that our patents will be determined to be applicable to any particular product or standard. Moreover, third parties could attempt to circumvent certain of our patents through design changes. Any significant adverse finding as to the validity, infringement, enforceability or scope of our patents and/or any successful design-around of our patents could result in the loss of patent licensing revenue from existing licensees, through termination or modification of agreements or otherwise, and could substantially impair our ability to secure new patent licensing arrangements, either at all or on beneficial terms. Our technologies may not become patented, adopted by wireless or video standards or widely deployed. We invest significant resources in the development of advanced technology and related solutions. However, certain of our inventions that we believe will be employed in current and future products, including 4G, 5G, HEVC and others, are the subject of patent applications where no patent has been issued to us yet by the relevant patent issuing authorities. There is no assurance that these applications will issue as patents, either at all or with claims that would be required by products in the market currently or in the future. Our investments may not be recoverable or may not result in meaningful revenue if a sufficient number of our technologies are not patented and adopted by the relevant standards or if products based on the technologies in which we invest are not widely deployed. Competing technologies could reduce the opportunities for the adoption or deployment of technologies we develop. In addition, it is possible that in certain technology areas, such as in the IoT space, the adoption of proprietary systems could compete with or replace standards-based technology. It is also possible in certain technology areas, such as video coding and the IoT, that open source solutions such as AV1, VP-9 and OCF could compete with or replace proprietary standards-based technology. If the technologies in which we invest do not become patented or are not adopted by the relevant standards, or are not adopted by and deployed in the mainstream markets, at all or at the rate or within time periods that we expect, or in the case of open source solutions, do not infringe our technology, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Delays in renewing or an inability to renew existing license agreements could cause our revenue and cash flow to decline. Many of our license agreements have fixed terms. Although we endeavor to renew license agreements with fixed terms prior to the expiration of the license agreements, due to various factors, including the technology and business needs and competitive positions of our licensees and, at times, reluctance on the part of our licensees to participate in renewal discussions, we may not be able to renegotiate the license agreements on acceptable terms before or after the expiration of the license agreement, or at all. If there is a delay in renegotiating and renewing a license agreement prior to its expiration, there could be a gap in time during which we may be unable to recognize revenue from that licensee or we may be forced to renegotiate and renew the license agreement on terms that are more favorable to such licensee, and, as a result, our revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to renegotiate and renew our license agreements at all, our revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. Increased scrutiny by antitrust authorities may affect our strategies for patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement and may increase our costs of doing business and/or lead to monetary fines, penalties or other remedies or sanctions. Domestic and foreign antitrust authorities have increased their scrutiny of the use of SEPs, including the enforcement of such patents against competitors and others. Such scrutiny has already resulted in enforcement actions against Qualcomm and could lead to additional investigations of, or enforcement actions against, us. Such inquiries and/or enforcement actions could impact the availability of injunctive and monetary relief, which may adversely affect our strategies for patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement and increase our costs of operation. Such inquiries and/or enforcement actions could also result in monetary fines, penalties or other remedies or sanctions that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our commercialization, licensing and/or mergers and acquisitions (M&A) activities could lead to patent exhaustion or implied license issues that could materially adversely affect our business. The legal doctrines of patent exhaustion and implied license may be subject to different judicial interpretations. Our commercialization or licensing of certain technologies and/or our M&A activities could potentially lead to patent exhaustion or implied license issues that could adversely affect our patent licensing program(s) and limit our ability to derive licensing revenue from certain patents under such program(s), whether through the assumption of license agreements that would result in our patents being captured by such agreements, the acquisition of a business that sells or licenses products that practice our patents, or otherwise. In the event of successful challenges by current or prospective licensees based on these doctrines that result in a material decrease to our patent licensing revenue, our financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to realize all of the anticipated benefits from the integration of the patent licensing business that we acquired from Technicolor in 2018 and the Research & Innovation unit of Technicolor (collectively, the Technicolor business). We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits from our integration of the Technicolor business on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the following: failure of the acquisitions to materially increase the value of our core handset licensing business by not increasing the royalty amount we would otherwise derive on each handset, not accelerating the pace of licensing, or not allowing us to avoid litigation to protect our intellectual property; failure to continue to develop and expand our portfolio of video technology patent assets; failure to execute a successful business plan and licensing program related to consumer electronics; the risk that we could lose key employees of the Technicolor business; challenges associated with managing a geographically remote business; failure to forecast accurately the long-term value and costs of the Technicolor business or of certain assets acquired in the transactions; liabilities that are not covered by, or exceed the coverage under, the indemnification or other provisions of the acquisition-related agreements; and patent validity, infringement, exhaustion or enforcement issues not uncovered during our diligence process. In the event that we fail to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of the Technicolor business, our business and results of operations, and our stock price, may be adversely affected. We have in the past and may in the future make acquisitions or engage in other strategic transactions that could result in significant changes, costs and/or management disruption and that may fail to enhance shareholder value or produce the anticipated benefits. We have in the past and may in the future acquire companies, businesses, technology and/or intellectual property, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions. Acquisitions or other strategic transactions may increase our costs, including but not limited to accounting and legal fees, and may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies or of any technologies we may acquire. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired companies, businesses and/or assets in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of acquired companies or businesses may result in significant challenges, including, among others: successfully integrating new employees, technology and/or products; consolidating research and development operations; minimizing the diversion of managements attention from ongoing business matters; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. As a result, we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In addition, we cannot be certain that the integration of acquired companies, businesses, technology and/or intellectual property with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits that we anticipate will be realized from such acquisitions. Our plans to integrate and/or expand upon research and development programs and technologies obtained through acquisitions may result in products or technologies that are not adopted by the market, or the market may adopt solutions competitive to our products or technologies. We may not derive any commercial value from the acquired technology or intellectual property or from future technologies or products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property. In addition, to the extent we are separately seeking a patent license from a customer or customers of an acquired entity, the acquired entity may lose such customers. Following the completion of the acquisition, we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by, or exceed the coverage under, the indemnification protection we may obtain, and we may encounter patent 15 Table of Contents validity, infringement or enforcement issues or unforeseen expenses not uncovered during our diligence process. Any acquired company or business would be subject to its own risks that may or may not be the same as the risks already disclosed herein. Challenges relating to our ability to enter into new license agreements could cause our revenue and cash flow to decline. We face challenges in entering into new patent license agreements. One of the most significant challenges we face is that most potential licensees do not voluntarily seek to enter into license agreements with us before they commence manufacturing and/or selling devices that use our patented inventions. As a result, we must approach companies that are reluctant to take licenses and attempt to establish license agreements with them. The process of identifying potential users of our inventions and negotiating license agreements with reluctant prospective licensees requires significant time, effort and expense. Once discussions with unlicensed companies have commenced, we face the additional challenges imposed by the significant negotiation issues that arise from time to time. Given these challenges relating to our ability to enter into new license agreements, we cannot ensure that all prospective licensees will be identified or, if they are identified, will be persuaded during negotiations to enter into a patent license agreement with us, either at all or on terms acceptable to us, and, as a result, our revenue and cash flow could materially decline. The length of time required to negotiate a license agreement also leads to delays in the receipt of the associated revenue stream, which could also cause our revenue and cash flow to decline. In addition, as discussed more fully above in these Risk Factors, we are currently operating in a challenging regulatory and judicial environment, which may, under certain circumstances, lead to delays in the negotiation of and entry into new patent license agreements. Also, as discussed above in these Risk Factors and in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this Form 10-K, we are also currently, and may in the future be, involved in legal proceedings with potential licensees, with whom we do not yet have a patent license agreement. Any such delays in the negotiation or entry into new patent license agreements and receipt of the associated revenue stream could cause our revenue and cash flow to decline. Our revenues are derived primarily from a limited number of licensees or customers. We earn a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of licensees or customers, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to come from a limited number of licensees or customers for the foreseeable future. For example, in 2019 , Apple, Samsung and LG Electronics accounted for approximately 35% , 25% and 10% of our total revenues, respectively. In the event that we are unable to renew one or more of such license agreements upon expiration, our future revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. In the event that one or more of our significant licensees or customers fail to meet their payment or reporting obligations (for example, due to a credit issue or in connection with a legal dispute or similar proceeding) under their respective license agreements, our future revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. In addition, in the event that there is a material decrease in shipments of licensed products by one of our per-unit licensees, our revenues from such licensee could significantly decline and our future revenue and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our strategy to diversify our patent-based revenue by pursuing alternative patent licensing arrangements and patent sales may not be successful. There is no guarantee that we will succeed in our pursuit of select patent licensing arrangements or patent sales, and, if we are successful, there is no guarantee that the revenue and cash flow generated through such alternative licensing arrangements (such as the Signal Trust and the Avanci licensing platform) or patent sales will be greater than the revenue and cash flow we would have generated if we had retained and/or licensed the patents ourselves. In addition, potential licensees may be reluctant to enter into new patent license agreements, and current licensees may be reluctant to renew their agreements, either at all or on terms acceptable to the Company, based on the fact that we have sold portions of our patent portfolio or the belief that we plan to sell or transfer some of the patents we are asking them to license. A portion of our revenue and cash flow are dependent upon our licensees' sales and market conditions and other factors that are beyond our control or are difficult to forecast. A portion of our licensing revenues is dependent on sales by our licensees that are outside our control and that could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, including global, regional and/or country-specific economic conditions and/or public health concerns (e.g., the current coronavirus outbreak), country-specific natural disasters impacting licensee manufacturing and sales, demand and buying patterns of end users, which are often driven by replacement and innovation cycles, the service life of products incorporating our technologies, competition for our licensees' products, supply chain disruptions, and any decline in the sale prices our licensees receive for their covered products. In addition, our operating results also could be affected by general economic and other conditions that cause a downturn in the market for the licensees of our products or technologies. Our revenue and cash flow also could be affected by (i) the unwillingness of any licensee to satisfy all of their royalty obligations on the terms or within the timeframe we expect, (ii) a decline in the financial condition or market position of any licensee or (iii) the failure of sales to meet market forecasts due to global or regional economic conditions, political instability, natural disasters, competitive technologies, lower demand or otherwise. It is also difficult to predict the 16 Table of Contents timing, nature and amount of licensing revenue associated with past infringement (including as a result of the unwillingness of our licensees to compensate us for such past infringement) and new licenses, strategic relationships and the resolution of legal proceedings. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast and could adversely affect both our quarterly and annual operating results and financial condition. In addition, some of our patent license agreements provide for upfront fixed payments or prepayments that cover our licensees' future sales for a specified period and reduce future cash receipts from those licensees. As a result, our cash flow has historically fluctuated from period to period. Depending upon the payment structure of any new patent license agreements into which we may enter, such cash flow fluctuations may continue in the future. Our revenue may be affected by the deployment of future-generation wireless standards in place of 3G, 4G and 5G technologies or future-generation video standards, by the timing of such deployment, or by the need to extend or modify certain existing license agreements to cover subsequently issued patents. Although we own an evolving portfolio of issued and pending patents related to 3G, 4G and 5G cellular technologies and non-cellular technologies including video coding technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program for future-generation wireless standards or video coding standards may not be as successful in generating licensing income as our current licensing programs. Although we continue to participate in worldwide standards bodies and contribute our intellectual property to future-generation wireless and video coding standards, including standards that will define 5G, our technologies might not be adopted by the relevant standards. In addition, we may not be as successful in the licensing of future-generation products as we have been in licensing products deploying existing wireless and video coding standards, or we may not achieve a level of royalty revenues on such products that is comparable to that which we have historically received on products deploying existing wireless and video coding standards. Furthermore, if there is a delay in the standardization and/or deployment of 5G or future video coding standards, our business and revenue could be negatively impacted. The licenses that we grant under our patent license agreements typically only cover products designed to operate in accordance with specified technologies and that were manufactured or deployed or anticipated to be manufactured or deployed at the time of entry into the agreement. Also, we have patent license agreements with licensees that now offer for sale types of products that were not sold by such licensees at the time the patent license agreements were entered into and, thus, are not licensed by us. We do not derive patent licensing revenue from the sale of products by our licensees that are not covered by a patent license agreement. In order to grant a patent license for any such products, we will need to extend or modify our patent license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. We may not be able to extend or modify these license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, on financial terms acceptable to us, without affecting the other material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees or at all. Further, such extensions, modifications or new license agreements may adversely affect our revenue on the sale of products covered by the license prior to any extension, modification or new license. We face risks from doing business and maintaining offices in international markets. A significant portion of our licensees, potential licensees and customers are international, and our licensees, potential licensees and customers sell their products to markets throughout the world. In addition, in recent years, we have expanded, and we may continue to expand, our international operations, opening offices in France, the United Kingdom, China, Belgium and Germany. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks and uncertainties of operating internationally and could be affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including, but not limited to: difficulty in protecting our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions; enforcing contractual commitments in foreign jurisdictions or against foreign corporations; government regulations, tariffs and other applicable trade barriers; biased enforcement of foreign laws and regulations to promote industrial or economic policies at our expense; retaliatory practices by foreign actors; currency control regulations and variability in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currency; export license requirements and restrictions on the use of technology; social, economic and political instability; natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war; potentially adverse tax consequences; general delays in remittance of and difficulties collecting non-U.S. payments; foreign labor regulations; anti-corruption laws; and difficulty in staffing and managing operations remotely. In addition, we also are subject to risks specific to the individual countries in which we and our licensees, potential licensees and customers do business. We depend on key senior management, engineering, patent and licensing resources. Our future success depends largely upon the effectiveness of our executive officers and other key personnel, including our ability to put in place adequate succession plans for such key personnel, and/or organizational strategies related to the departure of such key personnel. Our success also depends in part on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel with specialized patent, licensing, engineering and other skills. The market for such talent in our industry is extremely competitive as a result in part of the specialized nature of our industry. In particular, competition exists for qualified individuals with expertise in patents and in licensing and with significant engineering experience in cellular and air interface , video coding, and artificial intelligence technologies. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel could be affected by any adverse decisions in any litigation, arbitration or regulatory proceeding, by our ability to offer competitive cash and equity compensation, the perception of our company both internally and externally, and work environment conditions and by the 17 Table of Contents geographic location of our various offices. The failure to attract and retain such persons with relevant and appropriate experience or to have in place adequate succession plans and/or organizational strategies related to the departure of certain key personnel could interfere with our ability to enter into new license agreements and undertake additional technology and product development efforts, as well as our ability to meet our strategic objectives. We face competition from companies developing other or similar technologies. We face competition from companies developing other and similar technologies that are competitive with our products and solutions that we may market or set forth, including into the standards-setting arena. Due to competing products and solutions, our products and solutions may not find a viable commercial marketplace or, where applicable, be adopted by the relevant standards. In addition, in licensing our patent portfolio, we may compete with other companies, many of whom also claim to hold SEPs, for a share of the royalties that certain licensees may argue to be the total royalty that is supported by a certain product or products. In any device or piece of equipment that contains intellectual property, the manufacturer may need to obtain a license from multiple holders of intellectual property. To the extent that multiple parties all seek royalties on the same product, the manufacturers could claim to have difficulty in meeting the financial requirements of each patent holder. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, uncertainty and shifting market opportunities. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to define and keep pace with changes in industry standards, technological developments and varying customer requirements. Changes in industry standards and needs could adversely affect the development of, and demand for, our technology, rendering our technology currently under development obsolete and unmarketable. The patents and applications comprising our portfolio have fixed terms, and, if we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to these changes through the development or acquisition of new patentable inventions, patents or other technology, we could miss a critical market opportunity, reducing or eliminating our ability to capitalize on our patents, technology solutions or both. Concentration and consolidation in the wireless communications industry could adversely affect our business. There is some concentration among participants in the wireless communications industry, and the industry has experienced consolidation of participants and sales of participants or their businesses, and these trends may continue. For example, in 2019 , Samsung, Apple and Huawei collectively accounted for approximately 40% of worldwide shipments of 3G and 4G handsets and 50% of worldwide smartphone shipments. Although the rollout of 5G handsets is still in its early stages, we anticipate a similar level of concentration in worldwide shipments of those units as well. Any further concentration or sale within the wireless industry among handset providers and/or original design manufacturers ("ODMs") may reduce the number of licensing opportunities or, in some instances, result in the reduction, loss or elimination of existing royalty obligations. We may also face a reduction in the number of licensing opportunities or existing royalty obligations as a result of government-imposed bans or other restrictions on the importation, manufacture and/or sale of cellular handsets by certain companies. In addition, acquisitions of, or consolidation among, ODMs could cause handset providers who outsource manufacturing to make supply chain changes, which in turn could result in the reduction, loss or elimination of existing royalty obligations (for example, if manufacturing is moved from an ODM with which we have a patent license agreement to an ODM with which we do not). Further, if wireless carriers consolidate with companies that utilize technologies that are competitive with our technologies or that are not covered by our patents, we could lose market opportunities, which could negatively impact our revenues and financial condition. Our use of open source software could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Certain of our technology and our suppliers technology may contain or may be derived from open source software, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a products source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. Licensing of such technology may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. For example, these obligations may require us to make source code for derivative works available or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different from what we customarily use to license our technology. While we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employ adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that, if we inappropriately use open source software, we may be required to re-engineer our technology, discontinue the sale of our technology, release the source code of our proprietary technology to the public at no cost or take other remedial actions, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. There is a risk that open source licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage. 18 Table of Contents Changes to our tax assets or liabilities could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. The calculation of tax assets and liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. We are subject to examinations by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other taxing jurisdictions on various tax matters, including challenges to various positions we assert in our filings and foreign tax liability and withholding. Pursuant to the guidance for accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, certain tax contingencies are recognized when they are determined to be more likely than not to occur. Although we believe we have adequately recorded tax assets and accrued for tax contingencies that meet this criterion, we may not fully recover our tax assets or may be required to pay taxes in excess of the amounts we have accrued. As of December 31, 2019 , and 2018 , there were certain tax contingencies that did not meet the applicable criteria to record an accrual. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Changes in financial accounting standards or policies may affect our reported financial condition or results of operations and, in certain cases, could cause a decline and/or fluctuations in the price of our common stock. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") and the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") change their guidance governing the form and content of our external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), such as the FASB and the SEC, may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions with regard to how these standards should be applied. A change in accounting principles or their interpretation can have a significant effect on our reported results. In certain cases, we could be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively or apply existing guidance differently. Potential changes in reporting standards could substantially change our reporting practices in a number of areas, including revenue recognition and recording of assets and liabilities, and affect our reported financial condition or results of operations. The high amount of capital required to obtain radio frequency licenses, deploy and expand wireless networks and obtain new subscribers, as well as the cost of new handsets could slow the growth of the wireless communications industry and adversely affect our business. Our growth is partially dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services and cellular handsets that utilize our technology. In order to provide wireless communications services, wireless operators must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the United States and other countries throughout the world, and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. Industry growth may be affected by the amount of capital required to obtain licenses to use new frequencies, deploy wireless networks to offer voice and data services, expand wireless networks to grow voice and data services and obtain new subscribers. The significant cost of licenses, wireless networks and subscriber additions may slow the growth of the industry if wireless operators are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement or expand advanced wireless networks. Growth in the number of cellular handsets may slow as the number of people worldwide without a cellular handset declines. In addition, if the cost of cellular handsets increases, customers may be less likely to replace their existing devices with new devices. The growth of our business could be adversely affected if either of these events occur. Market projections and data are forward-looking in nature. Our strategy is based on our own projections and on analyst, industry observer and expert projections, which are forward-looking in nature and are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. The validity of their and our assumptions, the timing and scope of wireless markets, economic conditions, customer buying patterns, timeliness of equipment development, pricing of products, growth in wireless telecommunications services that would be delivered on wireless devices and availability of capital for infrastructure improvements could affect these predictions. In addition, market data upon which we rely is based on third party reports that may be inaccurate. The inaccuracy of any of these projections and/or market data could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our engineering services business could subject us to specific costs and risks that we might fail to manage adequately. We derive a portion of our revenues from engineering services. Any mismanagement of, or negative development in, a number of areas, including, among others, the perceived value of our intellectual property portfolio, our ability to convince customers of the value of our engineering services and our reputation for performance under our service contracts, could cause our revenues from engineering services to decline, damage our reputation and harm our ability to attract future licensees, which would in turn harm our operating results. If we fail to deliver as required under our service contracts, we could lose revenues and become subject to liability for breach of contract. We need to monitor these services adequately in order to ensure that we 19 Table of Contents do not incur significant expenses without generating corresponding revenues. Our failure to monitor these services adequately may harm our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. It can be difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our per-unit licensing agreements, and this may cause us to lose potential revenue. The standard terms of our per-unit license agreements require our licensees to document the sale of licensed products and report this data to us on a quarterly basis. Although our standard license terms give us the right to audit books and records of our licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, incomplete and subject to dispute. From time to time, we audit certain of our licensees to verify independently the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports in an effort to decrease the likelihood that we will not receive the royalty revenues to which we are entitled under the terms of our license agreements, but we cannot give assurances that these audits will be numerous enough and/or effective to that end. Our plans to expand our revenue opportunities through commercializing our market-ready technologies and acquiring and/or developing new technology with commercial applicability may not be successful and could materially adversely affect our long-term business, financial condition and operating results. As part of our business strategy, we are seeking to expand our revenue opportunities through the continued development, commercialization and licensing of technology projects, including in the IoT space. Our technology development and acquisition activities may experience delays, or the markets for our technology solutions may fail to materialize to the extent or at the rate we expect, if at all, each of which could reduce our opportunities for technology sales and licensing. In addition, there could be fewer applications for our technology and products than we expect. Technology markets also could be affected by general economic conditions, customer buying patterns, timeliness of equipment development, and the availability of capital for, and the high cost of, infrastructure improvements. Additionally, investing in technology development is costly and may require structural changes to the organization that could require additional costs, including without limitation legal and accounting fees. Furthermore, delays or failures to enter into additional partnering relationships to facilitate technology development efforts and secure support for our technologies or delays or failures to enter into technology licensing agreements to secure integration of additional functionality could impair our ability to introduce into the market portions of our technology and resulting products, cause us to miss critical market windows, or decrease our ability to remain competitive. We have in the past and may in the future make investments that may fail to enhance shareholder value or produce the anticipated benefits. We have in the past and may in the future make investments in other entities by purchasing minority equity interests or corporate bonds/notes in publicly traded or privately held companies. Most strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and may not become liquid for a period of time, if ever. In some cases, strategic investments may serve as consideration for a license in lieu of cash royalties. In addition, other investments may not generate financial returns or may result in losses due to market volatility, the general level of interest rates and inflation expectations. We have made in the past and may make in the future strategic investments in early-stage companies, which may require us to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of those companies. Our share of any such losses may adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to these investments. Our investments in new commercial initiatives may not be successful or generate meaningful revenues. We have invested, and may continue to invest, in new businesses focused on commercializing technology that we have developed, incubated internally and/or acquired, such as video coding technology and other technologies for use on consumer electronics devices. Commercial success depends on many factors, including the demand for the technology, the highly competitive markets for our technology products, regulatory issues associated with such technology products, and effective marketing and licensing or product sales. In addition, our new technology offerings may require robust ecosystems of customers and service providers that may fail to materialize. Further, the establishment and operation of these commercial initiatives requires significant support, including technical, legal and financial resources. It is possible that these commercial initiatives will not be successful and/or will not achieve meaningful revenues for a number of years, if at all. Further, we may attempt to develop technologies or services that we believe we would be able to sell or license commercially using inside or outside technical, legal and financial resources. If our new commercial initiatives are not successful, or are not successful in the timeframe we anticipate, we may incur significant costs, our business may not grow as anticipated and/or our reputation may be harmed. In the event that any of these risks materialize, our long-term business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Our technology development activities may experience delays. We may experience technical, financial, resource or other difficulties or delays related to the further development of our technologies. Delays may have adverse financial effects and may allow competitors with comparable technology offerings to gain an advantage over us in the marketplace or in the standards setting arena. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have adequate staffing or that our development efforts will ultimately be successful. Moreover, certain of our technologies have not been fully tested in commercial use, and it is possible that they may not perform as expected. In such cases, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected, and our ability to secure new licensees and other business opportunities could be diminished. We rely on relationships with third parties to develop and deploy technology solutions. Successful exploitation of our technology solutions is partially dependent on the establishment and success of relationships with equipment producers and other industry participants. Delays or failure to enter into licensing or other relationships to facilitate technology development efforts or delays or failure to enter into technology licensing agreements to secure integration of additional functionality could impair our ability to introduce into the market portions of our technology and resulting products, cause us to miss critical market windows or impair our ability to remain competitive. Currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues or increase the U.S. dollar cost of our activities and international strategic investments. We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which may change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. We operate and invest globally. Adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: If the effective price of products sold by our licensees were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty revenues. Assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries may be subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported earnings. Our exposure to foreign currencies may increase as we expand into new markets. Certain of our operating and investing costs, such as foreign patent prosecution, are based in foreign currencies. If these costs are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, strengthening currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our near-term operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. In addition, continued strengthening of currency values in selected regions over an extended period of time could adversely affect our future operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. If, as a result of tax treaty procedures, the U.S. government reaches an agreement with certain foreign governments to whom we have paid foreign taxes, resulting in a partial refund of foreign taxes paid with a related reduction in our foreign tax credits, such agreement could result in foreign currency gain or loss. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches and our business is subject to a variety of domestic and international laws, rules and policies and other obligations regarding data protection. Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated. These attempts, which in some cases could be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but, in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. While we have not identified any material incidents of unauthorized access to date, the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business or personal information (whether through a breach of our own systems or the breach of a system of a third party that provides services to us) could harm our competitive or negotiating positions, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives, compromise our patent enforcement strategies or outlook, damage our reputation or otherwise adversely affect our business. In addition, to the extent that any future security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our employees, licensees, or customers confidential and /or personal information, we may incur liability or additional costs to remedy any damages caused by such breach. We could also be affected by existing and proposed laws and regulations, as well as government policies and practices related to cybersecurity, privacy and data protection. For example, the European General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") adopted by the European Commission became effective in May 2018, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (the "CCPA") adopted by the California State Legislature became effective in January 2020, and China adopted a new cybersecurity law as of June 2017. Complying with the GDPR, the CCPA and other existing and emerging and changing requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. Non-compliance could result in monetary penalties or significant legal liability. 21 Table of Contents If wireless handsets are perceived to pose health and safety risks, demand for products of our licensees could decrease. Media reports and certain studies have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to health concerns, such as brain tumors, other malignancies and genetic damage to blood, and may interfere with electronic medical devices, such as pacemakers, telemetry and delicate medical equipment. Growing concerns over radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, could discourage the use of wireless handsets and cause a decrease in demand for the products of our licensees. In addition, concerns over safety risks posed by the use of wireless handsets while driving and the effect of any resulting legislation could reduce demand for the products of our licensees. The United Kingdom's ("U.K.") decision to exit the European Union ("E.U.") will continue to have uncertain effects and could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The U.K. held a referendum on June 23, 2016 in which a majority voted for the U.K.'s withdrawal from the E.U. (commonly referred to as "Brexit"), and on January 31, 2020, the U.K. formally withdrew from the E.U. The U.K. is now in a transition period until December 31, 2020 during which time the final terms of Brexit are to be negotiated with the E.U. The terms of Brexit and the U.K.'s relationship with the E.U. going forward continue to be uncertain for global companies like ours that conduct business both in the U.K. and the E.U. The actual and perceived impacts of Brexit may adversely affect business activity and economic and market conditions in the U.K., the Eurozone and globally, and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets. In addition, Brexit could lead to additional political, legal and economic instability in the U.K and the E.U. While we have not experienced any material financial impacts from Brexit on our business to date, we cannot predict its future implications. Any impact on our business from Brexit in the long term will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, tax treaties, trade, regulatory and other negotiations that the U.K and the E.U. conduct. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and our Convertible Notes The price of our common stock is volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance. Historically, we have had large fluctuations in the price of our common stock, and such fluctuations could continue. From January 2, 2018 to February 18, 2020, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $47.02 per share to a high of $85.85 per share. The market price for our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: the public's response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC and announcements relating to licensing, technology development, litigation, arbitration and other legal proceedings in which we are involved and intellectual property impacting us or our business; announcements concerning strategic transactions, such as commercial initiatives, joint ventures, strategic investments, acquisitions or divestitures; financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; changes in GAAP, including new accounting standards that may materially affect our revenue recognition; changes in financial estimates or ratings by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our common stock; investor perceptions as to the likelihood of achievement of near-term goals; changes in market share of significant licensees; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other wireless communications companies generally; and market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole. In the past, shareholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. Our shareholders may not receive the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or any dividend at all, and any decrease in or suspension of the dividend could cause our stock price to decline. Our current dividend policy contemplates the payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share on our outstanding common stock. We expect to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock at the rate set forth in our current dividend policy. However, the dividend policy and the payment and timing of future cash dividends under the policy are subject to the final determination each quarter by our Board of Directors that (i) the dividend will be made in 22 Table of Contents compliance with laws applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends, including Section 1551(b) of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law, and (ii) the policy remains in our best interests, which determination will be based on a number of factors, including our earnings, financial condition, capital resources and capital requirements, alternative uses of capital, restrictions imposed by any existing debt, economic conditions and other factors considered relevant by the Board of Directors. Given these considerations, our Board of Directors may increase or decrease the amount of the dividend at any time and may also decide to vary the timing of or suspend or discontinue the payment of dividends in the future. Any decrease in the amount of the dividend, or suspension or discontinuance of payment of a dividend, could cause our stock price to decline. Approved stock repurchase programs may not result in a positive return of capital to shareholders. Our board-approved stock repurchase program may not return value to shareholders because the market price of the stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Stock repurchase programs are intended to deliver shareholder value over the long term, but stock price fluctuations can reduce the effectiveness of such programs. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under such indebtedness. Our total indebtedness as of December 31, 2019 was approximately $516.0 million, inclusive of debt resulting from the Technicolor Patent Acquisition (refer to Note 5, " Business Combinations and Other Transactions ," within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information). This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our 1.50% Senior Convertible Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes") and our 2.00% Senior Convertible Notes due 2024 (the "2024 Notes" and, together with the 2020 Notes, the "Convertible Notes"); reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the Convertible Notes. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under the Convertible Notes depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under the Convertible Notes and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including the 2020 Notes and/or the 20204 Notes, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under the 2020 Notes and/or the 2024 Notes, and this default could cause us to be in default on any other currently existing or future outstanding indebtedness. The convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the offering of the 2020 Notes and the 2024 Notes may affect the value of the 2020 Notes and/or the 2024 Notes, respectively, and the market price of our common stock. In connection with each offering of the Convertible Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions (the option counterparties) and sold warrants to the respective option counterparties. These transactions will be accounted for as an adjustment to our shareholders equity. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected to reduce the potential equity dilution upon any conversion of the Convertible Notes. The warrants will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. In addition, the respective option counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may modify their respective hedge positions from time to time (including during any observation period related to a conversion of the 2020 Notes and/or the 2024 Notes) by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or by purchasing or selling our common stock in open market transactions and/or privately negotiated transactions. 23 Table of Contents The potential effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions of the Convertible Notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the Convertible Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change under the respective Convertible Notes, holders of the 2020 Notes and/or the 2024 Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their applicable Convertible Notes or any portion of the principal amount of such Convertible Notes at a price of 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes being repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We may also be required to issue additional shares upon conversion in the event of certain fundamental change transactions. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. The respective option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that such option counterparties may default under the respective convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties is not secured by any collateral. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the applicable convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in our common stock market price and in volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurance as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties. The accounting method for convertible debt securities, such as the Convertible Notes, could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. In May 2008, the FASB, issued ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments, such as the Convertible Notes, that may be settled partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuers economic interest cost. ASC 470-20 requires the fair value of the conversion option of the 2020 Notes and the 2024 Notes be reported as a component of shareholders equity and included in the additional paid-in-capital on our consolidated balance sheet. The value of the conversion option of the 2020 Notes and the 2024 Notes will be reported as discount to the 2020 Notes and the 2024 Notes, respectively. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current periods amortization of the debt discount (non-cash interest) and the instruments cash interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the 2020 Notes and/or the 2024 Notes. Future sales or other dilution of our equity could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We also have several institutional shareholders that own significant blocks of our common stock. If one or more of these shareholders were to sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Under certain circumstances, shares of our common stock could be issued upon conversion of the 2020 Notes and/or the 2024 Notes, which would dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. In addition, the issuance of additional common stock, or issuances of securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock or other equity linked securities, including preferred stock or warrants, would dilute the ownership interest of our common shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. If securities or industry analysts fail to continue publishing research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 24 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES. Our headquarters are located in Wilmington, Delaware, USA. Our research and development activities are conducted primarily in facilities located in Berlin, Germany; Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, USA; London, United Kingdom; Montreal, Canada; New York, New York, USA; Palo Alto, California, USA; Rennes, France; and San Diego, California, USA. The following table sets forth information with respect to our principal properties: Location Approximate Square Feet Principal Use Lease Expiration Date Melville, New York 44,800 Office and research space February 2020 Wilmington, Delaware 36,200 Corporate headquarters November 2022 Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 30,300 Office and research space September 2026 Montreal, Quebec 17,300 Office and research space June 2021 New York, New York 19,400 Office and research space May 2030+ Palo Alto, California 4,900 Office and research space June 2027 San Diego, California 10,600 Office and research space September 2025 Rennes, France 50,000 Office and research space June 2019* Princeton, New Jersey 16,900 Office space February 2025 + Based on an estimated commencement date in June 2020. This office space will replace our Melville, New York location. Based on an estimated commencement date in April 2020. * We sublease our facility in Rennes from Thomson Licensing SAS. We are also a party to leases for several smaller research and/or office spaces, including in Brussels, Belgium; Buffalo, New York, USA; Indianapolis, Indiana, USA; Paris, France; San Francisco, California, USA; and Shanghai, China. In addition, we own a building in Washington, District of Columbia, USA, that houses administrative office space. We believe that the facilities described above are suitable and adequate for our present purposes and our needs in the near future. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. See Note 12, Litigation and Legal Proceedings, to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included below in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a description of our material legal proceedings, which is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. Not applicable. 25 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Market Information The NASDAQ Stock Market (NASDAQ) is the principal market for our common stock, which is traded under the symbol "IDCC." Holders As of February 18, 2020, there were 510 holders of record of our common stock. Dividends Cash dividends on outstanding common stock declared in 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in thousands, except per share data): 2019 Per Share Total Cumulative by Fiscal Year First quarter $ 0.35 $ 11,180 $ 11,180 Second quarter 0.35 10,895 22,075 Third quarter 0.35 10,897 32,972 Fourth quarter 0.35 10,746 43,718 $ 1.40 $ 43,718 2018 First quarter $ 0.35 $ 12,124 $ 12,124 Second quarter 0.35 12,192 24,316 Third quarter 0.35 11,996 36,312 Fourth quarter 0.35 11,610 47,922 $ 1.40 $ 47,922 In September 2017, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved an increase in the Companys quarterly cash dividend to $0.35 per share. We currently expect to continue to pay dividends comparable to our quarterly $0.35 per share cash dividend in the future; however, continued payment of cash dividends and changes in the Company's dividend policy will depend on the Company's earnings, financial condition, capital resources and capital requirements, alternative uses of capital, restrictions imposed by any existing debt, economic conditions and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. Performance Graph The following graph compares five-year cumulative total returns of the Company, the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Telecommunications Stock Index. The graph assumes $100 was invested in the common stock of InterDigital and each index as of December 31, 2014 and that all dividends were re-invested. Such returns are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance. 26 Table of Contents 12/14 12/15 12/16 12/17 12/18 12/19 InterDigital, Inc. 100.00 94.14 178.08 150.75 133.84 112.28 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 106.96 116.45 150.96 146.67 200.49 NASDAQ Telecommunications 100.00 97.52 102.36 127.62 127.16 142.60 The above performance graph shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or incorporated by reference into any filing of InterDigital under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Repurchase of Common Stock The following table provides information regarding Company purchases of its common stock during fourth quarter 2019. 27 Table of Contents Period Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share (or Unit) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchases as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (2) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units) That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (3) October 1, 2019 - October 31, 2019 $ $ 96,813,533 November 1, 2019 - November 30, 2019 432,849 $ 57.74 432,849 $ 71,813,695 December 1, 2019 - December 31, 2019 $ $ 71,813,695 Total 432,849 $ 57.74 432,849 $ 71,813,695 (1) Total number of shares purchased during each period reflects share purchase transactions that were completed (i.e., settled) during the period indicated. (2) Shares were purchased pursuant to the Companys $700 million share repurchase program (the 2014 Repurchase Program), $300 million of which was authorized by the Companys Board of Directors in June 2014, with an additional $100 million authorized by the Companys Board of Directors in each of June 2015, September 2017, December 2018, and May 2019, respectively. The 2014 Repurchase Program has no expiration date. The Company may repurchase shares under the 2014 Repurchase Program through open market purchases, pre-arranged trading plans, or privately negotiated purchases. (3) Amounts shown in this column reflect the amounts remaining under the 2014 Repurchase Program. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. The following data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements, related Notes and other financial information contained in this Form 10-K. We adopted new revenue guidance, ASC 606, effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. As such, revenue and other related accounts are presented in accordance with ASC 606 for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, and in accordance with ASC 605 for all prior periods presented. Refer to Note 3, Revenue Recognition , within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information regarding our adoption of ASC 606. Additionally, effective January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" or ("ASC 842"), which outlines a comprehensive change to the lease accounting model and supersedes prior lease guidance. Refer to Note 17, Leases , within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information regarding our adoption of ASC 842. 28 Table of Contents 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 (in thousands except per share data) Consolidated statements of operations data: Revenues (a) $ 318,924 $ 307,404 $ 532,938 $ 665,854 $ 441,435 Income from operations $ 37,835 $ 62,595 $ 301,495 $ 437,306 $ 208,549 Income tax benefit (provision) (b) $ (10,991 ) $ 27,417 $ (121,676 ) $ (116,791 ) $ (64,621 ) Net income applicable to InterDigital, Inc. common shareholders (c) $ 20,928 $ 65,031 $ 176,220 $ 310,741 $ 120,803 Net income per common share basic (c) $ 0.66 $ 1.89 $ 5.09 $ 9.00 $ 3.35 Net income per common share diluted (c) $ 0.66 $ 1.84 $ 4.93 $ 8.83 $ 3.31 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding basic 31,546 34,491 34,605 34,526 36,048 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding diluted 31,785 35,307 35,779 35,189 36,463 Cash dividends declared per common share (d) $ 1.40 $ 1.40 $ 1.30 $ 1.00 $ 0.80 Consolidated balance sheets data: Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (e) $ 757,098 $ 488,733 $ 433,014 $ 404,074 $ 510,207 Short-term investments 179,204 470,724 724,981 548,687 423,501 Working capital 710,774 844,855 1,019,353 795,639 610,994 Total assets 1,612,082 1,626,558 1,854,420 1,727,853 1,474,485 Total debt 444,758 317,377 285,126 272,021 486,769 Total InterDigital, Inc. shareholders equity (c) 761,557 936,729 863,808 746,323 515,393 Noncontrolling interest (c) 24,724 1,284 9,340 8,045 6,502 Total shareholders equity $ 786,281 $ 938,013 $ 873,148 $ 754,368 $ 521,895 (a) In 2019 , 2018 , 2017 , 2016, and 2015, our revenues included $19.8 million , $26.3 million , $162.9 million , $309.7 million, and $65.8 million of non-current patent royalties, respectively. (b) In 2018, our income tax benefit includes an $18.0 million tax benefit due to our income qualifying as foreign derived intangible income ("FDII"), as well as a $14.7 million benefit as a result of anticipated filings of amended tax returns in connection with the Korea Competent Authority Proceeding defined and discussed below. In 2017, our income tax provision was impacted by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA) as discussed in our results of operations. For more information, refer to Note 14, " Taxes" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K. In 2016, our income tax provision included the impact of a $23.6 million net tax benefit primarily related to domestic activity production deductions for prior years. (c) As discussed in Note 1 within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, " Background and Basis of Presentation ," we revised our prior period presentation of noncontrolling interest. (d) In September 2017, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved an increase in the Companys quarterly cash dividend to $0.35 per share. In September 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved an increase in the Companys quarterly cash dividend to $0.30 per share. (e) Includes restricted cash which is included within " Prepaid and other current assets " or " Other non-current assets " in the consolidated balance sheets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OVERVIEW The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Selected Financial Data, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto contained in this Form 10-K. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted FASB Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASC 606"), which affected our recognition of revenue from both our fixed-fee and per-unit license agreements beginning in first quarter 2018. All periods prior to January 1, 2018 are presented in accordance with ASC Topic 605, Revenue 29 Table of Contents Recognition (ASC 605). Refer to Note 3, " Revenue Recognition ," within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information. Throughout the following discussion and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we refer to recurring revenues and non-current patent royalties. For all periods presented, recurring revenues are comprised of current patent royalties and current technology solutions revenue. For 2019 and 2018, non-current patent royalties are comprised of past patent royalties and static fixed-fee" agreement royalties. For periods prior to 2018, non-current patent royalties are comprised of just past patent royalties, whereas static fixed-fee agreement royalties are included as part of recurring revenues. Business InterDigital, Inc. ("InterDigital") is a research and development company that licenses its innovations to the global wireless and consumer electronics industries. We design and develop advanced technologies that enable connected, immersive experiences in a broad range of communications and entertainment products and services. Since our founding in 1972, our engineers have designed and developed a wide range of innovations that are used in wireless products and networks, from the earliest digital cellular systems to 5G and, today, solutions that we believe will shape the world beyond 5G. With the acquisition of the patent licensing business of visual technology industry leader Technicolor SA ("Technicolor") in 2018 (the "Technicolor Patent Acquisition"), followed by the acquisition of their Research & Innovation unit in 2019 (the "R&I Acquisition" and, together with the Technicolor Patent Acquisition, the "Technicolor Acquisitions"), we are now a leader in video processing, encoding/decoding, and display technology, with a significant Artificial Intelligence ("AI") research effort that intersects with both wireless and visual technologies. InterDigital is one of the largest pure research & development and licensing companies in the world, with one of the most significant patent portfolios in the technology industry. As of December 31, 2019, InterDigital's wholly owned subsidiaries held a portfolio of approximately 32,000 patents and patent applications related to wireless communications, video coding, display technology, and other areas relevant to the wireless and consumer electronics industries. Our portfolio includes numerous patents and patent applications that we believe are or may be essential or may become essential to standards established by many Standards Development Organizations ("SDOs"), including cellular and other wireless communications and video technology standards. Those wireless standards include 3G, 4G and the IEEE 802 suite of standards, as well as patents and patent applications that we believe are or may become essential to 5G standards that currently exist and as they continue to develop. Our video technology portfolio includes patents and applications relating to standards established by ISO/IEC Moving Picture Expert Group (MPEG), the ITU-T Video Coding Expert Group (VCEG), the Joint Collaborative Team on Video Coding (JCT-VC) and the Joint Video Expert Team (JVET), among others. Our wireless portfolio has largely been built through internal development, supplemented by joint development projects with other companies, as well as select acquisitions of patents and companies. Products incorporating our patented inventions in wireless include: mobile devices, such as cellular phones, tablets, notebook computers and wireless personal digital assistants; wireless infrastructure equipment, such as base stations; components, dongles and modules for wireless devices; and Internet of Things ("IoT") devices and software platforms. Our video technology portfolio largely represents patents and applications that came to InterDigital as a result of the Technicolor Patent Acquisition, supplemented by internal development. Our patented inventions in video are incorporated in a range of products and services, including cellular phones, notebook computers, televisions, gaming consoles, set-top boxes, streaming devices and other consumer electronics. Acquisition of Technicolor's Research & Innovation Unit On May 31, 2019, we completed the acquisition of the R&I unit of Technicolor SA, which we refer to as the R&I Acquisition. R&I is a premier research lab that conducts fundamental research into video coding, IoT and smart home, imaging sciences, augmented reality and virtual reality, and artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies. As consideration for the R&I Acquisition, the parties agreed to terminate the jointly funded R&D collaboration agreement that was entered into as part of the Technicolor Patent Acquisition. In addition, InterDigital assumed certain employment-related obligations and Technicolor agreed to reduce its rights to a revenue-sharing arrangement announced as part of the Technicolor Patent Acquisition. There was no cash consideration. The R&I Acquisition resulted in a net gain of approximately $14.2 million, inclusive of a $20.5 million gain from the derecognition of a contingent consideration liability, all of which is included within Other Income (Expense), Net within the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2019. Refer to Note 5, " Business Combinations and Other Transactions " within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of both the Technicolor Patent Acquisition and the R&I Acquisition. 30 Table of Contents Revenue As previously discussed, we adopted new revenue guidance, ASC 606, effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. Consistent with the modified retrospective adoption method, our results of operations for periods prior to our adoption of ASC 606 remain unchanged. As such, revenue is presented in accordance with ASC 606 for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 and in accordance with ASC 605 for all prior periods presented. Refer to Note 3, Revenue Recognition , within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information regarding our adoption of ASC 606. In 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , our total revenues were $318.9 million , $307.4 million and $532.9 million , respectively. Our recurring revenues in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 were $298.2 million , $280.3 million and $370.0 million , respectively. In each of the years presented, we recognized between $19.8 million and $162.9 million of non-current patent royalties as more fully discussed below. In 2019 , fixed-fee royalties accounted for approximately 86% of our recurring revenues. These fixed-fee revenues are not affected by the related licensees success in the market or the general economic climate. The majority of the remaining portion of our recurring revenue was variable in nature due to the per-unit structure of the related license agreements. New Agreements Direct Licenses During fourth quarter 2019, we entered into a multi-year, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-bearing patent license and settlement agreement with ZTE. The agreement covers the sale of ZTE's 3G, 4G and 5G handset and tablet products, as well as 802.11 and HEVC technologies incorporated into such products. Also during fourth quarter 2019, we entered into a multi-year, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-bearing patent license agreement with u-blox AG ("u-blox"). The agreement covers the sale of u-blox's 3G and 4G machine to machine modules and certain consumer modules. During second quarter 2019, we entered into a multi-year, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-bearing patent license agreement with Teltronic S.A.U. ("Teltronic"). The agreement covers the sale of Teltronic's 4G terminal units as well as 3G and 4G infrastructure equipment. Also during second quarter 2019, we entered into a Settlement Agreement and First Amendment to the Patent License Agreement with Asustek Computer Incorporated ("Asus"). The agreement provides for, among other things, a multi-year amendment to our 2008 patent license agreement with Asus (the "2008 Asus PLA") that adds coverage for 4G technologies and amends certain other terms of the 2008 Asus PLA. Licenses Through Platforms During fourth quarter 2019, Google was granted a multi-year, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-bearing patent license covering the sale of certain of its 3G and 4G mobile communication devices. We entered into this agreement through a licensing platform. Also during fourth quarter 2019, as part of the Madison Arrangement, we entered into a multi-year, non-exclusive, royalty-bearing patent license agreement with Funai Electric Co., Ltd. ("Funai"). The agreement covers the U.S. sales of Funai's DTVs. During 2019, Avanci announced that it entered into several patent license agreements with new licensees, including Audi and Porsche, the Volkswagen Group Companies and Volvo Cars . Refer to the " Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Revenue Recognition" section below for details of our revenue recognition accounting policies and additional information on agreements with multiple performance obligations, as well as the estimates and methods used to determine the fair value of patents acquired, when applicable. Expiration of License Agreements Our patent license agreements with two licensees expired during 2019. No revenue was recognized under either agreement in 2019. Our patent license agreement with LG is scheduled to expire at the end of 2020. LG contributed $31.8 million, or approximately 11%, of our recurring revenue in 2019. Our patent license agreements with seven other licensees are scheduled to expire during 2020. Collectively with LG, all eight agreements expiring in 2020 accounted for $35.1 million, or approximately 12%, of our recurring revenue in 2019. 31 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement If we believe a party is required to license our patents in order to manufacture, use and/or sell certain products and such party refuses to do so, we typically offer such party to have royalty rates, or other terms, set by third party adjudicators (such as arbitrators). If the party refuses that offer and we believe they are unwilling to agree to a patent license on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis, we may have no other viable recourse but to institute legal action against them to enforce our patent rights. This legal action has typically taken the form of a patent infringement lawsuit or an administrative proceeding. In addition, we and our licensees, in the normal course of business, might seek to resolve disagreements as to the rights and obligations of the parties under the applicable license agreement through arbitration or litigation. During 2019 , we filed patent infringement actions in the United Kingdom against Lenovo and Huawei as more fully discussed in Note 12, Litigation and Legal Proceedings , to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included below in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We filed each of these actions after lengthy periods of negotiation and after the refusal by both Lenovo and Huawei to accept our various proposals to each of them, including our proposal to have a third party adjudicator set a royalty rate and resolve certain other terms that we could not mutually agree upon with Lenovo and Huawei, respectively. In 2019 , our intellectual property enforcement costs increased to $25.4 million from $17.6 million and $15.2 million in 2018 and 2017 , respectively. These costs represented 16% of our total patent administration and licensing costs of $154.9 million in 2019 . Intellectual property enforcement costs will vary depending upon activity levels, and it is likely they will continue to be a significant expense for us in the future. Hillcrest Sale On July 19, 2019, we completed the sale of our Hillcrest product business to a subsidiary of CEVA, Inc. In connection with the sale, we received initial proceeds of $10.0 million, with a customary portion of the purchase price placed in escrow to secure potential indemnification claims. As part of the transaction, we retained substantially all of the Hillcrest patent assets that we acquired in 2016. As a result of this transaction, we recorded an $8.5 million gain on sale which is included within Other Income (Expense), Net in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2019. 2024 Senior Convertible Notes On June 3, 2019, we issued the $400.0 million aggregate principal 2024 Notes. The net proceeds from the offering of the 2024 Notes were approximately $391.6 million after deducting the initial purchasers' fees and estimated offering expenses. Additionally, on May 29 and May 31, 2019, in connection with the offering of the 2024 Notes, we entered into the 2024 Call Spread Transactions. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2024 Notes, after deducting fees and offering expenses, were used for the following: (i) $232.7 million was used to repurchase $221.1 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2020 Notes in privately negotiated transactions concurrently with the offering of the 2024 Notes (ii) $19.6 million was used to repurchase shares of common stock at $62.53 per share, the closing price of the stock on May 29, 2019; and (iii) $24.4 million, in addition to the proceeds from the 2024 Warrant Transactions, was used to fund the cost of the 2024 Call Spread Transactions. The 2024 Notes will be convertible into cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, at our election, at an initial conversion rate of 12.3018 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2024 Notes (which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $81.29 per share), as adjusted pursuant to the terms of the Indenture. Refer to Note 10, Obligations within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for defined terms and further discussion of the 2024 Notes and related 2024 Call Spread Transactions. Cash and Short-Term Investments As of December 31, 2019 , we had $0.9 billion of cash, restricted cash and short-term investments and up to an additional $404.7 million of payments due under signed agreements, including $28.3 million recorded in accounts receivable which includes estimates related to our fourth quarter 2019 variable patent royalty revenue. A portion of our cash and short-term investments include fixed royalty payments we have received related to revenue we will record in the future. As a result, our future cash receipts from existing licenses subject to fixed patent royalties will be lower than if the royalty payments were structured to coincide with the underlying sales. During 2019 , we recorded $295.2 million of cash receipts related to patent 32 Table of Contents licensing and technology solutions agreements as follows (in thousands): Cash In Patent royalties $ 288,123 Technology solutions 7,053 $ 295,176 As of December 31, 2019 , approximately $267.6 million of our $270.3 million deferred revenue balance as of December 31, 2019 related to dynamic fixed-fee royalty payments that were scheduled to amortize as follows (in thousands): 2020 $ 143,652 2021 76,534 2022 47,430 2023 2024 Thereafter $ 267,616 Refer to " New Accounting Guidance " below for a discussion regarding our adoption of ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018. Repurchase of Common Stock In June 2014, our Board of Directors authorized a $300 million share repurchase program (the 2014 Repurchase Program). In June 2015, September 2017, December 2018, and May 2019, our Board of Directors authorized four $100 million increases to the program, respectively, bringing the total amount of the 2014 Repurchase Program to $700 million . The Company may repurchase shares under the 2014 Repurchase Program through open market purchases, pre-arranged trading plans or privately negotiated purchases. The table below sets forth the total number of shares repurchased and the dollar value of shares repurchased under the 2014 Repurchase Program (in thousands). As of December 31, 2019, there was approximately $71.8 million remaining under the stock repurchase authorization. 2014 Repurchase Program # of Shares Value 2019 2,962 $ 196,269 2018 1,478 110,505 2017 107 7,693 2016 1,304 64,685 2015 1,836 96,410 2014 3,554 152,625 Total 11,241 $ 628,187 Comparability of Financial Results When comparing our 2019 financial results against the financial results of other periods, the following items should be taken into consideration: the Technicolor Patent Acquisition and the R&I Acquisition, which closed on July 30, 2018 and May 31, 2019, respectively, contributed $32.0 million to our 2019 revenue and $63.0 million to our 2019 operating expenses. The $63.0 million of operating expenses is comprised of $48.3 million of recurring costs, of which $16.6 million relates to patent amortization, $8.4 million relates to one-time transaction-related and integration costs, and $6.3 million relates to revenue sharing from the Madison Arrangement; 33 Table of Contents the R&I Acquisition resulted in a net gain of approximately $14.2 million , inclusive of a $20.5 million gain from the derecognition of a contingent consideration liability, all of which is included within Other Income (Expense), Net within our consolidated statement of income; in connection with the offering of the 2024 Notes, we repurchased approximately $221.1 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2020 Notes, which resulted in the recognition of a $5.5 million loss on extinguishment of debt that is included in " Other Income (Expense), Net " within our consolidated statement of income; 2019 " Other Income (Expense), Net " also includes an $8.5 million gain on sale of our Hillcrest product business, as well as a net loss of $2.6 million resulting from the partial impairment of one of our strategic investments partially offset by a gain on sale of a separate strategic investment; our 2019 results include a $5.5 million net charge as contra non-recurring revenue related to a recently restructured licensing arrangement with a long-term customer; and our 2019 income tax provision includes a $2.2 million tax benefit as a result of filing amended tax returns in connection with the Korea Competent Authority Proceeding, as defined and discussed below. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are based on the selection and application of GAAP, which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in both our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results could differ from these estimates and any such differences may be material to the financial statements. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 within our Consolidated Financial Statements and are included in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K. We believe the accounting policies that are of particular importance to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and that may involve a higher degree of complexity and judgment in their application compared to others are those relating to revenue recognition, compensation, business combinations and goodwill, and income taxes. If different assumptions were made or different conditions existed, our financial results could have been materially different. Revenue Recognition On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)" (ASC 606) using the modified retrospective method. Refer to Note 3, " Revenue Recognition ," within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information regarding our adoption of this guidance. The discussion that follows below is a description of our revenue recognition practices in effect beginning January 1, 2018 under ASC 606. We derive the vast majority of our revenue from patent licensing. The timing and amount of revenue recognized from each licensee depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each agreement and the nature of the deliverables and obligations. Such agreements are often complex and include multiple performance obligations. These agreements can include, without limitation, performance obligations related to the settlement of past patent infringement liabilities, patent and/or know-how licensing royalties on covered products sold by licensees, access to a portfolio of technology as it exists at a point in time, and access to a portfolio of technology at a point in time along with a promises to provide any technology updates to the portfolio during the term. 34 Table of Contents In accordance with US GAAP, we use a five-step model to achieve the core underlying principle that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. These steps include (1) identifying the contract with the customer, (2) identifying the performance obligations, (3) determining the transaction price, (4) allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations, and (5) recognizing revenue as the entity satisfies the performance obligation(s). Additionally, we have elected to utilize certain practical expedients in the application of ASC 606. In evaluating the presence of a significant financing component in our agreements, we utilize the practical expedient to exclude any contracts wherein the gap between payment by our customers and the delivery of our performance obligation is less than one year. We have also elected to utilize the practical expedient related to costs of obtaining a contract where an entity may recognize the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset that the entity otherwise would have recognized is one year or less. Timing of revenue recognition may differ significantly from the timing of invoicing to customers. Contract assets are included in accounts receivable and represent unbilled amounts expected to be received from customers in future periods, where the revenue recognized to date exceeds the amount billed, and right to payment is subject to the underlying contractual terms. Contract assets are classified as long-term assets if the payments are expected to be received more than one year from the reporting date. Contract assets due within less than twelve months of the balance sheet date are included within accounts receivable in our consolidated balance sheets. Contract assets due more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are included within other non-current assets. Patent License Agreements Upon signing a patent license agreement, we provide the licensee permission to use our patented inventions in specific applications. We account for patent license agreements in accordance with the guidance indicated above. Certain patent license agreements contain revenue from non-financial sources in the form of patents received from the customer. Under our patent license agreements, we typically receive one or a combination of the following forms of payment as consideration for permitting our licensees to use our patented inventions in their applications and products: Consideration for Past Patent Royalties Consideration related to a licensees product sales from prior periods may result from a negotiated agreement with a licensee that utilized our patented inventions prior to signing a patent license agreement with us or from the resolution of a disagreement or arbitration with a licensee over the specific terms of an existing license agreement. We may also receive consideration for past patent royalties in connection with the settlement of patent litigation where there was no prior patent license agreement. In each of these cases, we record the consideration as revenue as prescribed by the five-step model. Fixed-Fee Agreements Fixed-fee license agreements include fixed, non-refundable royalty payments that fulfill the licensees obligations to us under a patent license agreement for a specified time period or for the term of the agreement for specified products, under certain patents or patent claims, for sales in certain countries, or a combination thereof - in each case for a specified time period (including for the life of the patents licensed under the agreement). Dynamic fixed-fee license agreements contain a single performance obligation that represents ongoing access to a portfolio of technology over the license term, since our promise to transfer to the licensee access to the portfolio as it exists at inception of the license, along with promises to provide any technology updates to the portfolio during the term, are not separately identifiable. Upon entering a new agreement, we allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations delivered at signing (e.g. our existing patent portfolio) and future performance obligations (e.g. the technology updates). We use a time-based input method of progress to determine the timing of revenue recognition, and as such we recognize the future deliverables on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement. We utilize the straight-line method as we believe that it best depicts efforts expended to develop and transfer updates to the customer evenly throughout the term of the agreement. Static fixed-fee license agreements are fixed-price contracts that generally do not include updates to technology we create after the inception of the license agreement or in which the customer does not stand to substantively benefit from those updates during the term. Although we have few static fixed-fee license agreements, we generally satisfy our performance obligations under such agreements at contract signing, and as such revenue is recognized at that time. Variable Agreements Upon entering a new variable patent license agreement, the licensee typically agrees to pay royalties or license fees on licensed products sold during the term of the agreement. We utilize the sales- or usage- based royalty exception for these agreements and recognize revenues during the contract term when the underlying sale or usage occurs. Our licensees under variable agreements provide us with quarterly royalty reports that summarize their sales of covered products and their related royalty obligations to us. We typically receive these royalty reports subsequent to the period in which our licensees underlying 35 Table of Contents sales occurred. As a result, we are required to estimate revenues, subject to the constraint on our ability to estimate such amounts. Technology Solutions Technology solutions revenue consists of revenue from royalty payments, software licenses, engineering services and product sales. The nature of these contracts and timing of payments vary. We recognize revenue from royalty payments and license agreements using the same methods described above under our policy for recognizing revenue from patent license agreements. We recognize revenue from engineering services using percentage of completion method. Patent Sales Our business strategy of monetizing our intellectual property includes the sale of select patent assets. As patent sales executed under this strategy represent a component of our ongoing major or central operations and activities, we will record the related proceeds as revenue. We will recognize the revenue in accordance with the five-step model, generally upon closing of the patent sale transaction. Agreements with Multiple Performance Obligations During 2019 , we signed three new agreements that had multiple performance obligations. Consistent with the revenue recognition policies disclosed above under ASC 606, we (1) identified the contract with the customer, (2) identified the performance obligations, (3) determined the transaction price, (4) allocated the transaction price to the performance obligations, and (5) recognized revenue as we satisfy the performance obligations. We allocated the transaction price to each performance obligation for accounting purposes using our best estimate of the term and value. The process for determining the value of the standalone selling prices of identified performance obligations in dynamic fixed-fee license agreements requires the exercise of significant judgment when evaluating the valuation methods and assumptions, including the assumed royalty rates, projected sales volumes, discount rate, and comparable market transactions which are not directly observable and other relevant factors. Changes in any of a number of these assumptions could have had a substantial impact on the relative fair value assigned to each performance obligation for accounting purposes. These inputs and assumptions represent management's best estimates at the time of the transaction. The impact that a five percent change in the aggregate amount allocated to past patent royalties under these agreements would have had on 2019 revenue is summarized in the following table (in thousands): Change in amount allocated Allocation to past patent royalties +5% -%5 Change in Revenue $ 1,618 $ (1,618 ) Revenue from Non-financial Sources During 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , our patent licensing royalties were derived from patent license agreements ("PLAs") with 69, 66 and 27 independent licensees, respectively. The number of independent licensees largely increased from 2017 to 2018 due to the Technicolor Patent Acquisition. We recognized revenue from four, three and five PLAs in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, for which patents generally comprised less than forty-percent of the total consideration paid or due to us under those agreements. In addition, during 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , we recognized revenue from one PLA that was executed in 2014 in connection with a patent purchase agreement ("PPA") with the licensee. Total cash paid to our licensee under this PPA is approximately 56% of the total cash due to us under this licensee's PLA. During 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , approximately 6%, 3% and 4%, respectively, of our total revenue was based on the estimated fair value of the patents in the above transactions. The process for determining the value of revenue from non-financial sources requires estimating the fair value of patents received. We estimated the fair value of the patents in the above transactions using one of, or a combination of, an analysis of comparable market transactions (the market approach), a discounted cash flow analysis (the income approach) and/or by quantifying the amount of money required to replace the future service capability of the assets (the cost approach). For the market approach, judgment was applied as to which market transactions were most comparable to the transaction. For the income approach, the inputs and assumptions used to develop these estimates were based on a market participant perspective and included estimates of projected royalties, discount rates, economic lives and income tax rates, among others. For the cost approach, we utilized the historical cost of assets of similar technologies to determine the estimated replacement cost, including research, development, testing and patent application fees. The development of a number of these inputs and assumptions requires a significant amount of management judgment and is based upon a number of factors, including comparable market transactions, assumed royalty rates, projected sales volumes, economic lives of the patents and other relevant factors. Changes 36 Table of Contents in any of a number of these assumptions could have had a substantial impact on the fair value assigned to the patents for accounting purposes. These inputs and assumptions represent management's best estimates at the time of the transaction. The impact that a five-percent change in the estimated aggregate value of the patents acquired would have had on 2019 revenue, patent amortization and pre-tax income is summarized in the following table (in thousands). Change in estimate Estimated value of patents acquired in connection with PLAs +5% -%5 Revenue $ 1,070 $ (1,070 ) Less: Patent amortization 672 (672 ) Pre-tax income $ 398 $ (398 ) Compensation Programs We use a variety of compensation programs to attract, retain and motivate our employees, and to more closely align employee compensation with company performance. These programs include, but are not limited to, short-term incentives tied to performance goals, cash awards to inventors for filed patent applications and patent issuances, and long-term incentives in the form of stock option awards, time-based restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, performance-based awards and cash awards, noting equity awards are granted pursuant to the terms and conditions of our Equity Plans (as defined within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Our long-term incentives, including equity awards, typically include annual equity and cash award grants with three- to five-year vesting periods; as a result, in any one year, we are typically accounting for at least three active cycles. The aggregate amount of performance compensation expense we record in a period, under both short-term and long-term incentive compensation programs, requires the input of subjective assumptions and is a function of our estimated progress toward performance compensation goals at both the beginning and the end of the period. Our estimated progress toward goals under performance equity grants is based on meeting a minimum confidence level in accordance with accounting rules for share-based compensation. Achievement rates can vary by performance cycle and from period to period, resulting in variability in our compensation expense. If we had accrued all performance compensation cost throughout 2019 on the assumption that all plans and active cycles thereunder would be paid out at 100%, we would have recorded approximately $12.5 million more in compensation expense in 2019 than we actually recorded. We account for compensation costs associated with share-based compensation based on the fair value of the instruments issued. The estimated value of stock options includes assumptions around expected life, stock volatility and dividends. The expected life of our stock option awards is based on the simplified method as prescribed by Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 14. In all periods, our policy has been to set the value of RSUs and restricted stock awards equal to the value of our underlying common stock on the date of measurement. For grants with graded vesting, we amortize the associated unrecognized compensation cost using an accelerated method. For grants that cliff vest, we amortize the associated unrecognized compensation cost on a straight-line basis over their vesting term. In the event of canceled awards, we adjust compensation expense recognized to date as they occur. Tax windfalls and shortfalls related to the tax effects of employee share-based compensation are included in our tax provision. On the consolidated statements of cash flows, tax windfalls and shortfalls related to employee share-based compensation awards are included within operating activities and cash paid to tax authorities for shares withheld are included within financing activities. The inclusion of windfalls and shortfalls in the tax provision could increase our earnings volatility between periods. Tax windfalls related to share-based compensation for the years ended 2019, 2018 and 2017 were $0.2 million , $1.8 million and $12.1 million , respectively. The below table summarizes our supplemental compensation expense for 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , in thousands: 37 Table of Contents 2019 2018 2017 Short-term incentive compensation $ 14,129 $ 13,045 $ 13,994 Time-based awards (a) 6,327 5,985 6,958 Performance-based awards (a) (b) 299 1,415 6,883 Other share-based compensation 1,307 1,768 4,999 Total supplemental compensation expense $ 22,062 $ 22,213 $ 32,834 (a) For 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , approximately 5%, 28%, and 6%, respectively, of the aggregate expense associated with time-based and performance-based awards related to cash awards. The increase in cash awards in 2018 is primarily related to certain cash-based executive retirement awards. (b) Includes a charge of $0.4 million in 2017 to increase the accrual rates under our long-term incentive programs driven by the Company's success toward achieving goals for the related cycles. There were no changes to the accrual rates under our long-term incentive programs during 2019 or 2018. Business Combinations and Goodwill Acquisitions that qualify as a business combination are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. The fair value of consideration transferred for an acquisition is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair value as of the acquisition date. Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the net tangible and identified intangible assets acquired under a business combination. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the Company completes valuation procedures for an acquisition to determine the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. These valuation procedures require management to make assumptions and apply significant judgment to estimate the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the estimates or assumptions used should significantly change, the resulting differences could materially affect the fair value of net assets. We estimate the fair value of the intangible assets acquired generally through a combination of a discounted cash flow analysis (the income approach) and an analysis of comparable market transactions (the market approach). For the income approach, we base the inputs and assumptions used to develop these estimates on a market participant perspective which includes estimates of projected revenues, discount rates, economic lives and income tax rates, among others, all of which require significant management judgment. For the market approach, we apply judgment to identify the most comparable market transactions to the transaction. Definite-lived intangible assets, which are primarily comprised of patents, are amortized over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method and are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. Goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed for impairment annually on the first day of the fourth quarter, or when events or changes in the business environment indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit may exceed its fair value. We first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether a quantitative goodwill impairment test is necessary. If we conclude it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, we need not perform the quantitative assessment. If based on the qualitative assessment we believe it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a quantitative assessment test is required to be performed. This assessment requires us to compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value including allocated goodwill. We determine the fair value of our reporting units generally using a combination of the income and market approaches. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting units fair value, a goodwill impairment charge will be recorded for the difference up to the carrying value of goodwill. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income in the period in which the change was enacted. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets if management has determined that it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized. 38 Table of Contents In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. We are subject to examinations by the U.S. IRS and other taxing jurisdictions on various tax matters, including challenges to various positions we assert in our filings. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. The financial statement recognition of the benefit for a tax position is dependent upon the benefit being more likely than not to be sustainable upon audit by the applicable tax authority. If this threshold is met, the tax benefit is then measured and recognized at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Between 2006 and 2019, we paid approximately $177.4 million in foreign taxes to foreign governments that have tax treaties with the U.S., for which we have claimed foreign tax credits against our U.S. tax obligations, and for which the tax treaty procedures are still open. It is possible that as a result of tax treaty procedures, the U.S. government may reach an agreement with the related foreign governments that will result in a partial refund of foreign taxes paid with a related reduction in our foreign tax credits. Due to foreign currency fluctuations, any such agreement could result in foreign currency gain or loss. On November 8, 2019, the Company received notification that its request for competent authority pertaining to Article 25 (Mutual Agreement Procedure) of the United States-Republic of Finland Income Tax Convention had been reviewed by the IRS and an agreement has been reached (the Finland Competent Authority Proceeding). As a result of this agreement, the Company does not anticipate any tax consequences. On July 24, 2018, the Company received notification that its request for competent authority pertaining to Article 27 (Mutual Agreement 14 Table of Contents Procedure) of the United States-Republic of Korea Income Tax Convention had been reviewed by the IRS and an agreement had been reached (the "Korea Competent Authority Proceeding"). As a result of this agreement, the Company received refunds of $97.4 million , inclusive of interest. In addition, we have recorded a net tax benefit of $14.7 million in our full year 2018. In September 2019 the amended tax returns for tax years covered by this agreement were filed and an additional benefit of $2.2 million was recorded related to the final refund the Company expects to receive. New Accounting Guidance Refer to Note 2, " Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Guidance " within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of recently issued accounting guidance. Legal Proceedings We are routinely involved in disputes associated with enforcement and licensing activities regarding our intellectual property, including litigations, arbitrations and other proceedings. These litigations, arbitrations and other proceedings are important means to enforce our intellectual property rights. We are a party to other disputes and legal actions not related to our intellectual property, but also arising in the ordinary course of our business. Refer to Note 12, Litigation and Legal Proceedings , to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included below in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a description of our material legal proceedings. FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our primary sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, as well as cash generated from operations. We believe we have the ability to obtain additional liquidity through debt and equity financings. Based on our past performance and current expectations, we believe our available sources of funds, including cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and cash generated from our operations, will be sufficient to finance our operations, capital requirements, debt obligations (including the repayment of the remaining $94.9 million of our 2020 Notes), existing stock repurchase program and dividend program for the next twelve months. Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments As of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 , we had the following amounts of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments (in thousands): 39 Table of Contents December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Increase / (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 745,491 $ 475,056 $ 270,435 Restricted cash included within prepaid and other current assets 10,526 13,677 (3,151 ) Restricted cash included within other non-current assets 1,081 1,081 Short-term investments 179,204 470,724 (291,520 ) Total cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments $ 936,302 $ 959,457 $ (23,155 ) The net decrease in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments was attributable to cash used in financing activities of $89.3 million and cash used in investing activities, excluding sales and purchases of short-term investments, of $28.3 million . These uses were partially offset by cash provided by operating activities of $89.4 million . Cash used in financing activities primarily related to share repurchases, dividend payments and cash payments for payroll taxes upon vesting of restricted stock units, partially offset by net proceeds from the debt refinancing and related expenses and proceeds received from non-controlling interests. Cash used in investing activities, excluding sales and purchases of short-term investments, primarily related to capital investments for patents and fixed assets, partially offset by proceeds received from the sale of our Hillcrest product business. Refer to the sections below for further discussion of these items. Cash flows from operations We generated the following cash flows from our operating activities in 2019 and 2018 (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Increase / (Decrease) Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 89,433 $ 146,792 $ (57,359 ) Our cash flows provided by operating activities are principally derived from cash receipts from patent license and technology solutions agreements, offset by cash operating expenses and income tax payments. The decrease in cash flows provided by operating activities of $57.4 million was due to both a decrease in cash receipts primarily attributable to the timing of cash receipts from our dynamic fixed-fee royalty agreements for existing licensees and higher cash operating expenses driven by the Technicolor Acquisitions. The table below provides the significant items comprising our cash flows provided by operating activities during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands). For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Increase / (Decrease) Cash Receipts: Patent royalties $ 288,123 $ 322,835 $ (34,712 ) Technology solutions 7,053 2,537 4,516 Total cash receipts $ 295,176 $ 325,372 $ (30,196 ) Cash Outflows: Cash operating expenses (a) (195,682 ) (167,728 ) (27,954 ) Income taxes paid, net of refunds (b) (24,229 ) (16,426 ) (7,803 ) Total cash outflows (219,911 ) (184,154 ) (35,757 ) Other working capital adjustments 14,168 5,574 8,594 Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 89,433 $ 146,792 $ (57,359 ) (a) Cash operating expenses include operating expenses less depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of patents, non-cash compensation and non-cash changes in fair value. (b) Income taxes paid include foreign withholding taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2018, this amount includes a net cash benefit of $17.5 million related to the Korea Competent Authority Proceeding discussed further above and within Note 14, " Income Taxes ," in the consolidated financial statements. Cash provided by or used in investing and financing activities 40 Table of Contents Net cash provided by investing activities in 2019 was $268.3 million , a $198.3 million change from $70.0 million net cash provided by investing activities in 2018 . During 2019 , we sold $296.6 million of short-term marketable securities, net of purchases. We also received initial proceeds of $10.0 million related to the sale of our Hillcrest product business, with a customary portion of the purchase price placed in escrow to secure potential indemnification claims. During 2018 , we sold $256.6 million of short-term marketable securities, net of purchases, and applied a substantial portion of the proceeds from our sale of short-term marketable securities toward the $143.0 million , net of cash acquired, paid for the Technicolor Patent Acquisition. Long-term investments decreased by $6.3 million due to a decrease in strategic investment activity. Net cash used in financing activities for 2019 was $89.3 million , a $71.7 million decrease from net cash used in financing activities of $161.1 million in 2018 . This change was attributable to several offsetting factors. The second quarter 2019 debt refinancing, including the repayment of approximately 70% of our 2020 Notes, and related expenses resulted in net proceeds of $140.2 million during 2019. Additionally, proceeds from noncontrolling interests were $15.7 million and there was a $4.4 million decrease in payroll taxes paid upon the vesting of restricted stock units during 2019 as compared to 2018. Lastly, there was a $3.9 million decrease in dividends paid attributable to repurchases of common stock. These increases in cash were offset by a $85.8 million increase in repurchases of common stock and a $6.7 million decrease in proceeds received from the exercise of stock options. Other Our combined short-term and long-term deferred revenue balance at December 31, 2019 was approximately $270.3 million , an increase of $1.0 million from December 31, 2018 . Based on current license agreements, we expect the amortization of dynamic fixed-fee royalty payments to reduce the December 31, 2019 deferred revenue balance of $270.3 million by $143.7 million over the next twelve months. Convertible Notes Our Convertible Notes are included in the dilutive earnings per share calculation using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, we must calculate the number of shares of common stock issuable under the terms of the Convertible Notes based on the average market price of our common stock during the applicable reporting period and include that number in the total diluted shares figure for the period. At the time we issued the Convertible Notes, we entered into the 2024 Call Spread Transactions and the 2020 Call Spread Transactions, respectively, (each as defined in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). The 2024 Call Spread Transactions and the 2020 Call Spread Transactions were designed to have the economic effect of reducing the net number of shares that will be issued in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes in the event of conversion of the Convertible Notes if the market price per share of our common stock is greater than the strike price of the 20204 Note Hedge Transactions or 2020 Note Hedge Transactions, as applicable, by, in effect, increasing the conversion price of the Convertible Notes from our economic standpoint. However, under GAAP, since the impact of the 2024 Note Hedge Transactions and 2020 Note Hedge Transactions (together, the "Note Hedge Transactions") is anti-dilutive, we exclude from the calculation of fully diluted shares the number of shares of our common stock that we would receive from the counterparties to these agreements upon settlement. During periods in which the average market price of our common stock is above the applicable conversion price of the Convertible Notes ( $81.29 per share for the 2024 Notes and $70.64 per share for the 2020 Notes as of December 31, 2019) or above the strike price of the warrants ( $109.43 per share for the 2024 Warrant Transactions and $86.34 per share for the 2020 Warrant Transactions as of December 31, 2019), the impact of conversion or exercise, as applicable, would be dilutive and such dilutive effect is reflected in diluted earnings per share. As a result, in periods where the average market price of our common stock is above the conversion price or strike price, as applicable, under the treasury stock method, we calculate the number of shares issuable under the terms of the Convertible Notes and the warrants based on the average market price of the stock during the period, and includes that number in the total diluted shares outstanding for the period. Under the treasury stock method, changes in the price per share of our common stock can have a significant impact on the number of shares that we must include in the fully diluted earnings per share calculation. As described in Note 10, " Obligations ," it is our current intent and policy to settle all conversions of the Convertible Notes through a combination settlement of cash and shares of common stock, with a specified dollar amount of $1,000 per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes and any remaining amounts in shares ("net share settlement"). Assuming net share settlement upon conversion, the following table illustrates how, based on the $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2024 Notes and the $94.9 million remaining aggregate principal amount of the 2020 Notes as of December 31, 2019, and the approximately 4.9 million warrants related to the 2024 Notes and the 1.3 million remaining warrants related to the 2020 Notes, outstanding as of the same date, changes in our stock price would affect (i) the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, (ii) the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants subject to the 2024 Warrant Transactions and 2020 Warrant Transactions (together, the "Warrant Transactions"), (iii) the number of additional shares deemed outstanding with respect to the Convertible Notes, after applying the treasury stock method, for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per 41 Table of Contents share ("Total Treasury Stock Method Incremental Shares"), (iv) the number of shares of common stock deliverable to us upon settlement of the Note Hedge Transactions, and (v) the number of shares issuable upon concurrent conversion of the Convertible Notes, exercise of the warrants subject to the Warrant Transactions, and settlement of the Note Hedge Transactions: 2024 Notes Market Price Per Share Shares Issuable Upon Conversion of the 2024 Notes Shares Issuable Upon Exercise of the 2024 Warrant Transactions Total Treasury Stock Method Incremental Shares Shares Deliverable to InterDigital upon Settlement of the 2024 Note Hedge Transactions Incremental Shares Issuable (a) (Shares in thousands) $85 215 215 (215) $90 476 476 (476) $95 710 710 (710) $100 921 921 (921) $105 1,111 1,111 (1,111) $110 1,284 25 1,309 (1,284) 25 $115 1,442 238 1,680 (1,442) 238 $120 1,587 433 2,020 (1,587) 433 $125 1,721 613 2,334 (1,721) 613 $130 1,844 779 2,623 (1,844) 779 2020 Notes Market Price Per Share Shares Issuable Upon Conversion of 2020 Notes Shares Issuable Upon Exercise of Warrants Total Treasury Stock Method Incremental Shares Shares Deliverable to InterDigital upon Settlement of the Hedge Agreements Incremental Shares Issuable (a) (Shares in thousands) $75 78 78 (78) $80 157 157 (157) $85 227 227 (227) $90 289 55 344 (289) 55 $95 344 122 466 (344) 122 $100 394 184 578 (394) 184 $105 440 239 679 (440) 239 $110 481 289 770 (481) 289 $115 518 335 853 (518) 335 $120 553 377 930 (553) 377 (a) Represents incremental shares issuable upon concurrent conversion of convertible notes, exercise of warrants and settlement of the hedge agreements. Contractual Obligations As discussed above, on June 3, 2019 we issued $400.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.00% Senior Convertible Notes due 2024, or the 2024 Notes. The 2024 Notes bear interest at a rate of 2.00% per year, payable in cash on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing on December 1, 2019, and mature on June 1, 2024, unless earlier converted or repurchased. 42 Table of Contents On March 11, 2015, we issued $316.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.50% Senior Convertible Notes due 2020, or the 2020 Notes. The 2020 Notes bear interest at a rate of 1.50% per year, payable in cash on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing September 1, 2015, and mature on March 1, 2020, unless earlier converted or repurchased. We used a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2024 Notes to repurchase $221.1 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2020 Notes. As a result, $94.9 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2020 Notes remains outstanding as of December 31, 2019. For more information on the 2024 Notes and 2020 Notes, see Note 10, Obligations , within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Thereafter 2020 Notes $ 94,909 $ 94,909 $ $ $ Contractual interest payments on the 2020 Notes 712 712 2024 Notes 400,000 400,000 Contractual interest payments on the 2024 Notes 35,356 8,000 16,000 11,356 Operating lease obligations 36,556 5,535 10,652 9,014 11,355 Defined benefit plan obligations (a) 3,261 94 416 816 1,935 Purchase obligations (b) 16,074 16,074 Total contractual obligations $ 586,868 $ 125,324 $ 27,068 $ 421,186 $ 13,290 (a) Refer to Note 5, " Business Combinations and Other Transactions ," within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for details of our defined benefit plan obligations. Estimated future benefit payments included above are through 2029. (b) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services that are legally binding on us, as well as accounts payable. Our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2019 includes a $4.5 million noncurrent liability for uncertain tax positions. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. As of December 31, 2019, we have recorded long-term debt of $21.1 million related to the Technicolor Patent Acquisition. Additionally, as part of the Technicolor Patent Acquisition, we committed to contributing cash, subject to certain requirements, of up to a maximum of $25.0 million to fund a collaborative arrangement related to the transaction. Lastly, we are subject to a revenue-sharing arrangement with Technicolor resulting from the Technicolor Acquisitions. Refer to Note 5, " Business Combinations and Other Transactions ," within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information. Due to the uncertainty regarding the timing and amount of future payments related to these items, the amounts are excluded from the contractual obligations table above. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2019 Compared with 2018 Revenues The following table compares 2019 revenues to 2018 revenues (in thousands). Amounts below for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are presented in accordance with ASC 606. 43 For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Total Increase/(Decrease) Variable patent royalty revenue $ 30,428 $ 36,384 $ (5,956 ) (16 )% Fixed-fee royalty revenue 257,221 239,347 17,874 7 % Current patent royalties a 287,649 275,731 11,918 4 % Non-current patent royalties b 19,782 26,329 (6,547 ) (25 )% Total patent royalties 307,431 302,060 5,371 2 % Current technology solutions revenue a 10,518 4,594 5,924 129 % Patent sales 975 750 225 30 % Total revenue $ 318,924 $ 307,404 $ 11,520 4 % (a) Recurring revenues are comprised of current patent royalties, inclusive of Dynamic Fixed-Fee Agreement royalties, and current technology solutions revenue. (b) Non-recurring revenues are comprised of non-current patent royalties, which primarily include past patent royalties and royalties from static agreements, as well as patent sales. The $11.5 million increase in total revenue was driven by an increase in recurring revenue of $17.8 million , primarily attributable to fixed-fee royalties and current technology solutions revenue. Fixed-fee royalty revenue increased by $17.9 million , primarily resulting from a dynamic fixed-fee agreement signed in each of the fourth quarters of 2018 and 2019. The increase in current technology solutions revenue related to the inclusion of engineering services revenue attributable to our on-going relationship with Technicolor. These increases were partially offset by a decrease variable patent royalties, which was primarily due to a restructured licensing arrangement with a long-term customer in first quarter 2019 whose revenues are now classified as fixed-fee royalty revenue and have declined as compared to prior year. This decrease in variable patent royalties was partially negated by the inclusion of variable patent royalties assumed as part of the Technicolor Patent Acquisition. Additionally, non-current patent royalties decreased by $6.5 million primarily due to a $5.5 million net charge recorded as contra non-recurring revenue during first quarter 2019 related to a restructured licensing arrangement with a long-term customer. In 2019 and 2018 , 70% and 71% of our total revenues, respectively, were attributable to companies that individually accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. In 2019 and 2018 , the following licensees or customers accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues: For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Apple 35% 36% Samsung 25% 25% LG 10% 10% Operating Expenses The following table summarizes the change in operating expenses by category (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Increase/(Decrease) Patent administration and licensing $ 154,940 $ 124,081 $ 30,859 25 % Development 74,860 69,698 5,162 7 % Selling, general and administrative 51,289 51,030 259 1 % Total operating expenses $ 281,089 $ 244,809 $ 36,280 15 % 44 Operating expenses increased 15% to $281.1 million in 2019 from $244.8 million in 2018 . The $36.3 million increase in total operating expenses was primarily due to increases/(decreases) in the following items (in thousands): Increase/(Decrease) Recurring operations of the Technicolor Acquisitions $ 32,137 One-time costs related to the Technicolor Acquisitions (9,325 ) Revenue sharing for Madison Arrangement 6,260 Intellectual property enforcement and non-patent litigation 7,089 Personnel-related costs 1,203 Other (1,084 ) Total increase in operating expenses $ 36,280 The $36.3 million increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by the Technicolor Acquisitions, which contributed $63.0 million to 2019 operating expenses following our May 2019 R&I Acquisition. This compares to $34.0 million of operating expenses in 2018 following our July 2018 Technicolor Patent Acquisition. The $63.0 million of operating expenses in 2019 resulting from the Technicolor Acquisitions is comprised of $48.3 million of recurring costs, of which $16.6 million relates to patent amortization, $8.4 million relates to transaction and integration costs during 2019, and the remaining $6.3 million relates to revenue sharing for the Madison Arrangement. The $34.0 million of operating expenses in 2018 resulting from the Technicolor Patent Acquisition was comprised of $16.2 million for five months of recurring costs, of which $6.8 million related to patent amortization, and the remaining $17.8 million related to transaction and integration costs. The $7.1 million increase in intellectual property enforcement and non-patent litigation was primarily due to the enforcement proceedings we initiated against Lenovo and Huawei in second half 2019. The increase in personnel-related costs was primarily related to severance and related expenses associated with ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure, as well as one-time costs associated with the sale of our Hillcrest product business. Patent administration and licensing expense: The $30.9 million increase in patent administration and licensing expense primarily resulted from the above-noted increases related to the Technicolor Acquisitions and intellectual property enforcement costs. Development expense: The $5.2 million increase in development expense primarily resulted from the above-noted increases related to the Technicolor Acquisitions, as discussed above, partially offset by reduced spending on development of commercial solutions driven by the sale our Hillcrest product business. Selling, general and administrative expense: The $0.3 million increase in selling, general and administrative expense primarily resulted from the above-noted increases related to the Technicolor Acquisitions and increased personnel-related costs, discussed above. Non-Operating Income (Expense) The following table compares 2019 non-operating income (expense) to 2018 non-operating income (expense) (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Increase / (Decrease) Interest expense $ (40,955 ) $ (35,956 ) $ (4,999 ) (14 )% Interest and investment income 14,991 14,590 401 3 % Gain on asset acquisition and sale of business 22,690 22,690 % Loss on extinguishment of long-term debt (5,488 ) (5,488 ) % Other income (expense), net (3,131 ) (9,171 ) 6,040 (66 )% Total non-operating income (expense) $ (11,893 ) $ (30,537 ) $ 18,644 61 % The change in non-operating income (expense) between periods was primarily driven by the recognition of an aggregate $22.7 million gain on asset acquisition and sale of business during the year ended December 31, 2019, of which $14.2 million relates to the R&I Acquisition in second quarter 2019 and $8.5 million relates to the gain on sale of our 45 Table of Contents Hillcrest product business in third quarter 2019. These gains were partially offset by the recognition of a $5.5 million loss on extinguishment of debt recognized in connection with the settlement of a portion of our 2020 Notes in second quarter 2019. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized a net loss of $2.6 million resulting from the partial impairment of one of our strategic investments partially offset by a gain on sale of a separate strategic investment. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized an aggregate $8.4 million loss resulting from the sale of our entire ownership interest in one of our strategic investments and the impairment of a separate strategic investment. These items are included in the " Other income (expense), net " caption in the table above. Higher interest expense relates to interest on the 2024 Notes and interest incurred on long-term debt resulting from the Technicolor Patent Acquisition. Income Taxes In 2019 , based on the statutory federal tax rate net of discrete federal and state taxes, our effective tax rate was a provision of 42.4% . The effective tax rate for 2019 was unfavorably impacted by an $8.0 million provision associated with valuation allowances on the Companys losses in jurisdictions for which the Company receives no benefit. As a result of the difference in timing between US GAAP revenue and tax revenue, the Company's estimate of current taxable income is zero. The Company was unable to benefit from favorable rates associated with Foreign Derived Intangible Income ("FDII") as a result of having zero taxable income. This is compared to an effective tax rate benefit of 85.5% in 2018, based on the statutory federal tax rate net of discrete federal and state taxes. The effective tax rate for 2018 was impacted by an $18.0 million benefit associated with the FDII deduction provisions contained within the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, and a $14.7 million benefit from expected amended returns related to the Korea Competent Authority Proceeding settlement discussed above. On March 6, 2019, the IRS issued proposed regulations for FDII. We are currently evaluating the impact of the proposed regulations and will record the impact, if any, as applicable when the regulations become finalized. 2018 Compared with 2017 Revenues The following table compares 2018 revenues to 2017 revenues (in thousands). Amounts below for the year ended December 31, 2018 are presented in accordance with ASC 606 and amounts below for the year ended December 31, 2017 are presented in accordance with ASC 605. For the Year Ended December 31, Components of Increase/(Decrease) 2018 2017 Total Increase/(Decrease) Due to ASC 606 Operational Total Variable patent royalty revenue $ 36,384 $ 47,840 $ (11,456 ) (24 )% $ (461 ) $ (10,995 ) $ (11,456 ) Fixed-fee royalty revenue 239,347 301,628 (62,281 ) (21 )% (79,341 ) 17,060 (62,281 ) Current patent royalties a 275,731 349,468 (73,737 ) (21 )% (79,802 ) 6,065 (73,737 ) Non-current patent royalties b 26,329 162,890 (136,561 ) (84 )% 10,000 (146,561 ) (136,561 ) Total patent royalties 302,060 512,358 (210,298 ) (41 )% (69,802 ) (140,496 ) (210,298 ) Current technology solutions revenue a 4,594 20,580 (15,986 ) (78 )% (4,907 ) (11,079 ) (15,986 ) Patent sales 750 750 % 750 750 Total revenue $ 307,404 $ 532,938 $ (225,534 ) (42 )% $ (74,709 ) $ (150,825 ) $ (225,534 ) (a) Recurring revenues are comprised of current patent royalties, inclusive of Dynamic Fixed-Fee Agreement royalties, and current technology solutions revenue. (b) For the year ended December 31, 2018, non-recurring revenues are comprised of non-current patent royalties, which primarily include past patent royalties and royalties from static agreements, as well as patent sales. For the year ended December 31, 2017, non-current royalties consist of past patent royalties. As discussed above, we adopted new revenue guidance, ASC 606, effective January 1, 2018. Consistent with the modified retrospective adoption method, our results of operations for periods prior to our adoption of ASC 606 remain unchanged. As a result, the difference in accounting principles attributable to the adoption of ASC 606 accounted for $74.7 million of the decrease in net revenue. This decrease was primarily related to pre-existing static fixed-fee license agreements. The $150.8 million "Operational" decrease in total revenue was primarily driven by a decrease in non-current patent royalties. In 2017, non-current patent royalties were primarily attributable to the LG agreement, the recognition of a 46 Table of Contents prepayment balance remaining under a patent license agreement that expired in fourth quarter 2017 and our second quarter 2017 settlement agreement with Microsoft Corporation. The decreases in current technology solutions revenue and variable patent royalties primarily related to the expiration at the end of 2017 of certain royalty obligations under a technology solutions agreement and decreased shipments by certain of our variable licensees, respectively. These decreases were partially offset by the LG dynamic fixed-fee agreement signed in fourth quarter 2017 and new dynamic fixed-fee agreements signed during 2018. In 2018 and 2017, 71% and 61% of our total revenues, respectively, were attributable to companies that individually accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. In 2018 and 2017, the following licensees or customers accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues: For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Apple 36% 21% Samsung 25% 13% LG 10% < 10% Huawei a % 14% BlackBerry b % 13% (a) 2017 revenues included $8.4 million of non-current patent royalties. (b) 2017 revenues included $70.7 million of non-current patent royalties. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes the change in operating expenses by category (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Increase/(Decrease) Patent administration and licensing $ 124,081 $ 102,651 $ 21,430 21 % Development 69,698 75,724 (6,026 ) (8 )% Selling, general and administrative 51,030 53,068 (2,038 ) (4 )% Total operating expenses $ 244,809 $ 231,443 $ 13,366 6 % Operating expenses increased 6% to $244.8 million in 2018 from $231.4 million in 2017. The $13.4 million increase in total operating expenses was primarily due to increases/(decreases) in the following items (in thousands): Increase/(Decrease) Recurring operations of the Technicolor Patent Acquisition $ 16,242 One-time costs related to the Technicolor Patent Acquisition 15,804 Intellectual property enforcement and non-patent litigation 2,605 Depreciation and amortization 2,072 Performance-based incentive compensation (7,921 ) Consulting services (7,127 ) Commercial initiatives (3,738 ) Personnel-related costs (2,912 ) Patent maintenance and evaluation (2,067 ) Other 408 Total increase in operating expenses $ 13,366 The $13.4 million increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by the Technicolor Patent Acquisition, which increased 2018 operating expenses by $32.0 million. One-time transaction-related costs associated with the Technicolor Patent Acquisition increased $15.8 million. Additionally, the Technicolor Patent Acquisition contributed an additional $16.2 million for five months of operating expenses for the acquired Technicolor business, of which $6.8 million relates to patent 47 Table of Contents amortization. The $2.6 million increase in intellectual property enforcement and non-patent litigation was primarily due to increased activity related to existing licensee disputes. The $2.1 million increase of depreciation and amortization, which does not include the previously mentioned amortization from the Technicolor Patent Acquisition, was primarily related to the growth in our patent portfolio driven by both internal patent generation and patent acquisitions. The $7.9 million decrease in performance-based incentive compensation was primarily driven by higher accrual rates in the prior year. Consulting services decreased by $7.1 million, primarily related to spending on corporate initiatives, including the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system in 2017. The $2.9 million decrease in personnel-related costs and the $3.7 million decrease in commercial initiatives were due to a reduction in headcount and reduced spending on the development of commercial solutions in an ongoing effort to optimize our cost structure. The $2.1 million decrease in patent maintenance and evaluation costs was a result of our initiatives to more efficiently prosecute and maintain our patent portfolio. Patent administration and licensing expense: The $21.4 million increase in patent administration and licensing expense primarily resulted from the above-noted increases related to the Technicolor Patent Acquisition, intellectual property enforcement costs and patent amortization expense. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in performance-based compensation and patent maintenance costs. Development expense: The $6.0 million decrease in development expense primarily resulted from the above-noted decreases in performance-based incentive compensation, personnel-related costs, commercial initiatives, as well as consulting services related to development projects. Selling, general and administrative expense: The $2.0 million decrease in selling, general and administrative expense primarily resulted from the above-noted decreases in performance-based incentive compensation, consulting services, and personnel-related costs. These decreases were partially offset by the above-noted increases related to the Technicolor Patent Acquisition. Non-Operating Income (Expense) The following table compares 2018 non-operating income (expense) to 2017 non-operating income (expense) (in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Increase / (Decrease) Interest expense $ (35,956 ) $ (17,845 ) $ (18,111 ) (101 )% Other income (expense), net (9,171 ) 252 (9,423 ) (3,739 )% Interest and investment income 14,590 8,488 6,102 72 % Total non-operating income (expense) $ (30,537 ) $ (9,105 ) $ (21,432 ) (235 )% In 2018, non-operating expense was $30.5 million as compared to $9.1 million in 2017. The year ended December 31, 2018 includes $16.7 million of interest expense related to significant financing components of patent license agreements resulting from the adoption of ASC 606. Interest expense also increased by $0.7 million due to interest incurred on long-term debt resulting from the Technicolor Patent Acquisition. Non-operating expense for 2018 also includes an aggregate $8.4 million loss related to the sale of one of our strategic long-term investments and the impairment of a separate strategic long-term investment during the year, which is included in the " Other income (expense), net " caption in the table above. The remaining change between periods was primarily due to an increase in interest and investment income of $6.1 million primarily due to higher average investment balances and higher returns during 2018 as compared to 2017. Income Taxes In 2018, based on the statutory federal tax rate net of discrete federal and state taxes, our effective tax rate was a benefit of 85.5%. The effective tax rate for 2018 was favorably impacted by an $18.0 million benefit associated with the FDII deduction provisions contained within the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") and a $14.7 million benefit from expected amended returns related to the Korea Competent Authority Proceeding settlement discussed above. This is compared to an effective tax rate provision of 41.6% in 2017, based on the statutory federal tax rate net of discrete federal and state taxes. The effective tax rate for 2017 was impacted by a $42.6 million tax charge for the revaluation of our net deferred tax assets at the new statutory tax rate of 21% due to the TCJA signed into law in December 2017. The revaluation of our net deferred tax assets contributed approximately 14.6% to the rate increase, which was partially offset by a 48 Table of Contents contribution of approximately 4.0% due to our adoption of ASU 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting", as well as by a contribution of 2.7% as a result of the release of unrecognized tax benefits related to the conclusion of the IRS audits for tax years 2011 through 2015. STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 - FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements include certain information in Part I, Item 1. Business and Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other information regarding our current beliefs, plans and expectations, including, without limitation, the matters set forth below. Words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, forecast, believe, could, would, should, if, may, might, future, target, goal, trend, seek to, will continue, predict, likely, in the event, variations of any such words or similar expressions contained herein are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, without limitation, statements regarding: (i) our objective to continue to be a leading designer and developer of technology solutions and innovation for the mobile, video and consumer electronics industries and to monetize those solutions and innovations through a combination of licensing, sales and other revenue opportunities; (ii) our plans for executing on our business strategy, including our plans to develop and source innovative technologies related to wireless and video, establish and grow our patent-based revenue, pursue commercial opportunities for our advanced platforms and solutions, and maintain a collaborative relationship with key industry players and worldwide standards bodies; (iii) our belief that our portfolio includes a number of patents and patent applications that are or may be essential or may become essential to cellular, other wireless and video standards, including 3G, 4G, 5G and the IEEE 802 suite of standards, as well as patents and patent applications that we believe may become essential to standards that are under development; (iv) our belief that a number of our CDMA and OFDM/OFDMA inventions are, may be or may become essential to the implementation of CDMA and OFDM/OFDMA-based systems in use today; (v) our belief that companies making, importing, using or selling products compliant with the standards covered by our patent portfolio require a license under our patents and will require licenses under patents that may issue from our pending patent applications; (vi) our belief that our ongoing research efforts and associated patenting activities enable us to sell patent assets that are not vital to our core licensing programs, as well as to execute patent swaps that can strengthen our overall portfolio; (vii) our belief that our commercial initiatives are potential revenue opportunities; (viii) the estimated growth of the IoT market, including the size of the connected device installed base and number of connected device shipments, over the next several years; (ix) the types of licensing arrangements and various royalty structure models that we anticipate using under our future license agreements; (x) the possible outcome of audits of our license agreements when underreporting or underpayment is revealed; (xi) our belief that our facilities are suitable and adequate for our present purposes and our needs in the near future; (xii) our expectations and estimations regarding the income tax effects, and the impact on the Company, of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, and our belief that we currently expect a significant portion of our income to qualify as FDII and thus be subject to the 13.1% tax rate; (xiii) our expectation that we will continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock comparable to our quarterly $0.35 per share cash dividend in the future; (xiv) our belief that intellectual property enforcement costs, including litigation costs, will likely continue to be a significant expense for us in the future; (xv) our belief that we have the ability to obtain additional liquidity through debt and equity financings; 49 Table of Contents (xvi) our belief that our available sources of funds will be sufficient to finance our operations, capital requirements, debt obligations, existing stock repurchase program and dividend program for the next twelve months; (xvii) our expectations regarding the potential effects of new accounting standards on our financial statements or results of operations; (xviii) our expectation that the amortization of fixed-fee royalty payments will reduce our deferred revenue balance over the next twelve months; (xix) our belief in our ability to continue to expand into the consumer electronics market, and the opportunities that market presents; (xx) our projections of amounts to be owed to Technicolor under our revenue sharing arrangement; (xxi) the expected timing, outcome and impact of our various litigation, arbitration and administrative matters; and (xxii) our belief that there will be a level of concentration in worldwide shipments of 5G handsets similar to the current level of concentration in worldwide shipments of 3G and 4G handsets. Although the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements concerning our business, results of operations and financial condition are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. We caution readers that actual results and outcomes could differ materially from those expressed in or anticipated by such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the following: (i) uncertainty and decline in U.S.-China relations and/or increased economic uncertainty in China; (ii) unanticipated difficulties or delays related to the further development of our technologies; (iii) the failure of the markets for our technologies to materialize to the extent or at the rate that we expect; (iv) changes in our plans, strategy or initiatives; (v) the challenges related to entering into new and renewed patent license agreements and unanticipated delays, difficulties or acceleration in the negotiation and execution of patent license agreements; (vi) our ability to leverage our strategic relationships and secure new patent license and technology solutions agreements on acceptable terms; (vii) the impact of current trends in the industry that could result in reductions in and/or caps on royalty rates under new patent license agreements; (viii) changes in the market share and sales performance of our primary licensees, delays in product shipments of our licensees, delays in the timely receipt and final reviews of quarterly royalty reports from our licensees, delays in payments from our licensees and related matters; (ix) the timing and/or outcome of our various litigation, arbitration, regulatory or administrative proceedings, including any awards or judgments relating to such proceedings, additional legal proceedings, changes in the schedules or costs associated with legal proceedings or adverse rulings in such legal proceedings; (x) the determination of royalty rates, or other terms, under our patent license agreements through arbitration or other third-party adjudications, or the establishment by arbitrators or other third-party adjudicators of patent royalty rates at levels lower than our agreed or historical rates; (xi) the impact of potential patent legislation, USPTO rule changes and international patent rule changes on our patent prosecution and licensing strategies; (xii) the impact of rulings in legal proceedings, potential legislation affecting the jurisdiction and authority of the USITC and potential changes to the IPR policies of worldwide standards bodies on our investments in research and development and our strategies for patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement; (xiii) changes in our interpretations of, and assumptions and calculations with respect to the impact on the Company of, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, as well as further guidance that may be issued regarding the TCJA; (xiv) the timing and/or outcome of any state or federal tax examinations or audits, changes in tax laws and the resulting impact on our tax assets and liabilities; (xv) the effects of any dispositions, acquisitions or other strategic transactions by the Company; 50 Table of Contents (xvi) decreased liquidity in the capital markets; and (xvii) unanticipated increases in our cash needs or decreases in available cash. You should carefully consider these factors as well as the risks and uncertainties outlined in greater detail in Part I, Item 1A, in this Form 10-K before making any investment decision with respect to our common stock. These factors, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expected and historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. In addition, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein, which are made only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as otherwise required by law.