Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to we, our, us, Intellicheck, or the Company, refer to Intellicheck, Inc. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations constitutes managements review of the factors that affected our financial and operating performance for the three-month period ended March 31, 2020. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Overview We are a prominent technology company that is engaged in developing, integrating and marketing identity authentication and threat identification solutions to address challenges that include bank and retail fraud prevention, law enforcement threat identification, and mobile and handheld access control and security for the government, military and commercial markets. Our products include Retail ID, a solution for preventing fraud in the retail industry; Age ID, a smartphone or tablet-based solution for preventing sale of age-restricted products to minors, and Defense ID, a mobile and fixed infrastructure solution for threat identification, identity authentication and access control to military bases and other government facilities. Critical Accounting Policies and the Use of Estimates The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. Significant estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the financial statements include impairment consideration and valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, deferred tax valuation allowances, allowance for doubtful accounts and the fair value of stock options granted under the Companys stock-based compensation plans. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be different from those estimates. We believe that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amounts of revenue and the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. These significant accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, deferred taxes goodwill and intangible asset valuation and impairment, and commitments and contingencies. These policies and our procedures related to these policies are described in detail below. 16 Goodwill The excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets of acquired businesses is considered goodwill. Under authoritative guidance, purchased goodwill is not amortized, but rather it is periodically reviewed for impairment. We had goodwill of $8,101,661 as of March 31, 2020. This goodwill resulted from the acquisitions of Mobilisa, Inc. and Positive Access Corporation. These entities were merged into one company under Intellicheck on December 31, 2018. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we performed our annual impairment test of goodwill in the fourth quarter. Under authoritative guidance, we can use industry and Company specific qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that impairment exists, before using a two-step quantitative analysis. Events or changes in circumstances which could trigger an impairment review include macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance, other entity specific events and sustained decrease in share price. We performed the first step of the goodwill impairment test in order to identify potential impairment by comparing our fair value of the Company to our carrying amount, including goodwill. The fair value was determined using the weighting of certain valuation techniques, including both income and market approaches which include a discounted cash flow analysis, an estimation of an implied control premium, in addition to our market capitalization on the measurement date. The implied control premium selected was developed based on certain observable market data of comparable companies. The market capitalization is sensitive to the volatility of our stock price. Although we believe that the factors considered in the impairment analysis are reasonable, changes in any one of the assumptions used could have produced a different result which may have led to an impairment charge. Any future impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our long-term assets and operating expenses in the period in which impairment is determined to exist. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we determined that the fair value was more than our carrying amount and therefore the second step of the goodwill impairment test was not required. We determined that no events occurred or circumstances changed during the three months ended March 31, 2020 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the Company below its carrying amounts. We will, however, continue to monitor our stock price and operations for any potential indicators of impairment. We will conduct the 2020 annual test for goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter, or at such time where an indicator of impairment appears to exist. Intangible Assets Our intangible assets consist of patents and a software license. We determined that no events occurred or circumstances changed during the three months ended March 31, 2020 that would more likely than not reduce our intangible assets below our carrying amounts. We will, however, continue to monitor any potential indicators of impairment. Revenue Recognition and Deferred Revenue The majority of license fees and services revenue are generated from a combination of fixed-price and per-scan contracts. Under the per-scan revenue model, customers are charged a fee each time the customer scans an identity document, such as a drivers license, with our software. Under the fixed-price revenue model customers are charged a fixed monthly fee either per device or physical business location to access our software. In certain instances, customization services are determined to be essential to the functionality of the delivered software. Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services. We measure revenue based on the consideration specified in a customer arrangement, and revenue is recognized when the performance obligations in an arrangement are satisfied. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct service to the customer. The transaction price of a contract is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when or as, the customer receives the benefit of the performance obligation. Customers typically receive the benefit of our services as they are performed. Substantially all customer contracts provide that we are compensated for services performed to date. 17 Invoicing is based on schedules established in customer contracts. Payment terms are generally established from 30 to 60 days from the invoice date. Product returns are recorded as a reduction to revenue. Revenue is measured based on a consideration specified in a contract with a customer, and excludes any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties. Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to the customer, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Furthermore, we recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer. Stock-Based Compensation We account for the issuance of equity awards to employees in accordance with ASC Topic 718, which requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. This pronouncement establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share based payment arrangements and requires all companies to apply a fair value based measurement method in accounting for all share based payment transactions with employees. Deferred Income Taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and net operating loss carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using expected tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We have recorded a full valuation allowance for our net deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2020, due to the uncertainty of our ability to realize those assets. Commitments and Contingencies We are not currently involved in any legal or regulatory proceeding, or arbitration, the outcome of which is expected to have a material adverse effect on our business. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of our accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles, with no need for managements judgment in their application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. Results of Operations (All figures have been rounded to the nearest $1,000) Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2020 to the three months ended March 31, 2019 Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2020 increased 144% to $3,115,000 compared to $1,279,000 for the previous year. The increase in revenues in the three months ended March 31, 2020 is primarily the result of higher commercial revenues. Software as a Service (SaaS) revenue, which consists of software licensed on a subscription basis, increased $1,377,000 or 160% to $2,238,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $861,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Gross profit increased by $1,335,000 to $2,422,000 for three months ended March 31, 2020 from $1,087,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Our gross profit, as a percentage of revenues, was 77.8% and 85.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease in percentage is primarily due to an increase in hardware sales in the current period which contain lower than usual margins. Operating expenses, which consist of selling, general and administrative and research and development expenses, increased $92,000 or 4% to $2,398,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $2,306,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. This increase is primarily due to accrued incentive plans and legal fees offset by lower stock-based compensation costs. 18 Interest and other income was insignificant in the three-month periods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019. We have paid nominal income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019. As a result of the factors noted above, the Company generated net income of $27,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to a net loss of $1,213,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Liquidity and Capital Resources (All figures have been rounded to the nearest $1,000) As of March 31, 2020, we had cash of $3,010,000, working capital (defined as current assets minus current liabilities) of $3,129,000, total assets of $14,335,000 and stockholders equity of $12,097,000. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, we used net cash of $461,000 in operating activities as compared to net cash used of $542,000 in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Cash used in investing activities was $115,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to cash provided by investing activities of $7,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Cash generated by financing activities was $235,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to no cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019. On February 6, 2019, we entered into a revolving credit facility with Citibank that allows for borrowings up to the lesser of (i) $2,000,000 or (ii) the collateralized balance in our existing fixed income investment account with Citibank subject to certain limitations. The facility bears interest at a rate consistent of Citibanks Base Rate (4.75% at March 31, 2020) minus 2%. Interest is payable monthly and as of March 31, 2020, there were no amounts outstanding and unused availability under this facility was $2,000,000. We are closely monitoring the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on all aspects of our business and including how it may impact our customers, employees and vendors. While we did not incur significant disruptions during the three months ended March 31, 2020 from COVID-19, we are unable to predict the impact that this pandemic will have on us, including our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, the impact on our customers and the related demand for our services due to numerous uncertainties. On April 9, 2020 we entered into an unsecured promissory note in the amount of $796,100 (the Note) with First Bank (the Loan Servicer) under the Paycheck Protection Program administered by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) and established as part of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act). We received these proceeds on April 14, 2020. Under the terms of the Note, we can apply for forgiveness on this Note with the Loan Servicer if certain conditions including the use of the Note proceeds are met over an eight-week period commencing from the date of the Note. If all or part of this Note is not forgiven, the Note has an interest rate of 1% and must be repaid within two years from the date of the Note. We currently anticipate that our available cash, expected cash from operations and availability under the revolving credit agreement and the SBA loan, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We keep the option open to raise additional funds to respond to business contingencies which may include the need to fund more rapid expansion, fund additional marketing expenditures, develop new markets for our technology, enhance our operating infrastructure, respond to competitive pressures, or acquire complementary businesses or necessary technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the additional funds when needed or obtain such on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. 19 We have filed a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which became effective July 19, 2010. Under the shelf registration statement, we may offer and sell, from time to time in the future in one or more public offerings, our common stock, preferred stock, warrants, and units. The aggregate initial offering price of all securities sold by us will not exceed $25,000,000, and, pursuant to SEC rules, we may only sell up to one-third of the market cap held by non-affiliate stockholders in any 12-month period. We renewed this registration with the SEC on October 21, 2016, it was declared effective November 4, 2016 and expired on November 4, 2019. We anticipate renewing this registration again in 2020. The specific terms of any future offering, including the prices and use of proceeds, will be determined at the time of any such offering and will be described in detail in a prospectus supplement which will be filed with the SEC at the time of the offering. The shelf registration statement is designed to give us the flexibility to access additional capital at some point in the future when market conditions are appropriate. We are not currently involved in any legal or regulatory proceeding, or arbitration, the outcome of which is expected to have a material effect on our business. Net Operating Loss Carry Forwards Our available net operating loss (NOL) at December 31, 2019 was approximately $17 million. The federal and state NOLs incurred in all years through 2017 are available to offset future taxable income and expire from 2020 through 2039 if not utilized. On March 27 th , 2020 the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) was enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Cares Act, among other things, permits NOL carryovers and carrybacks to offset 100% of taxable income for taxable years beginning before 2021. In addition, the CARES Act allows NOLs incurred in 2018, 2019 and 2020 to be carried back to each of the five preceding taxable years to generate a refund of previously paid income taxes. The change in the law will not have any material cash benefit for us. Adjusted EBITDA We use Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP financial performance measurement. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by adding back to net income (loss), interest and other income, income taxes, impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation expense. Adjusted EBITDA is provided to investors to supplement the results of operations reported in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that Adjusted EBITDA provides an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our financial results with other companies that also use Adjusted EBITDA in their communications to investors. By excluding non-cash charges such as impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill, amortization, depreciation and stock-based compensation, as well as non-operating charges for interest and income taxes, investors can evaluate our operations and can compare the results on a more consistent basis to the results of other companies. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is one of the primary measures management uses to monitor and evaluate financial and operating results. We consider Adjusted EBITDA to be an important indicator of our operational strength and performance of our business and a useful measure of our historical operating trends. However, there are significant limitations to the use of Adjusted EBITDA since it excludes interest and other income, impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill, stock-based compensation expense, all of which impact our profitability, as well as depreciation and amortization related to the use of long-term assets which benefit multiple periods. We believe that these limitations are compensated by providing Adjusted EBITDA only with GAAP net income (loss) and clearly identifying the difference between the two measures. Consequently, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income (loss) presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA as defined by us may not be comparable with similarly named measures provided by other entities. 20 A reconciliation of GAAP net income (loss) to Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Net income (loss) $ 26,602 $ (1,212,991 ) Reconciling items: Interest and other income (2,068 ) (6,019 ) Depreciation and amortization 33,795 62,110 Stock-based compensation expense 86,042 369,739 Adjusted EBITDA $ 144,371 $ (787,161 ) Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have never entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements and have not established any special purpose entities. We have not guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities or entered into any options on non-financial assets. Forward Looking Statements This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, particularly statements anticipating future growth in revenues, loss from operations and cash flow. Words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and beliefs about future events. As with any projection or forecast, they are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances, and the Company is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of such changes, new information, subsequent events or otherwise.