Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Revenue Recognition - Patent License Agreements. Licensing Through Platforms As part of the Technicolor Patent Acquisition, we assumed Technicolor's rights and obligations under a joint licensing program with Sony relating to digital televisions ("DTVs") and standalone computer display monitors ("CDMs") (such program, the "Madison Arrangement"), including Technicolor's role as exclusive licensing agent. Under the Madison Arrangement, Technicolor and Sony combined portions of their respective DTV and CDM patent portfolios and created a combined licensing opportunity for DTV and CDM manufacturers. As licensing agent for the Madison Arrangement, we are responsible for making decisions regarding the prosecution and maintenance of the combined patent portfolio and the licensing and enforcement of the combined patent portfolio in the field of use of DTVs and CDMs. Refer to Note 10, "Obligations," within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information about the Madison Arrangement. In 2016, InterDigital joined Avanci, the industrys first marketplace for the licensing of cellular standards-essential technology for the IoT. The licensing platform brings together many of InterDigitals peers in standards-essential technology leadership, and makes 2G, 3G, 4G, and 5G standards-essential patents available to IoT players in specific product segments with one flat-rate license. The Avanci licensing programs in specific product segments for the IoT industry will provide access to the entire applicable standards-essential cellular patent portfolios held by all of the platform participants, as well as any additions to their portfolios during the term of the license. Since December 2017, Avanci has primarily focused on the automotive market, and has signed patent license agreements with BMW Group, Audi, Porsche, Volkswagen, and Volvo Cars, among others, collectively representing over 80% of annual connected car shipments. Through Avanci, InterDigitals cellular standard essential patents are also made available to certain other product verticals in the IoT area, such as smart meters and vehicle aftermarket products. Overview of Smartphone, Consumer Electronics, IoT, and Video Services Industries The primary markets for our wireless and video technologies are the smartphone, consumer electronics, IoT/Automotive, and video services markets. The smartphone market, with an estimated 1.2 billion units shipped worldwide in 2024, is driven by several large, global brands. The market rebounded in 2024 after several stagnant years due to the continued global uptake of 5G smartphones as well as the migration from feature phones to smartphones in emerging regions. Continued growth beyond 2024 is anticipated due in part to the introduction of new technologies and form factors. In addition to smartphones there is a large universe of other consumer electronic devices and ecosystems, with a mix of mature and emerging, as well as consolidated and fragmented, device segments. After smartphones, televisions represent one of the largest markets with more than 200 million units shipped globally. Other key consumer electronics device categories include tablets and personal computers, set-top-boxes and streaming media players, gaming consoles, wearables and smart home products. IoT/Automotive is an important and relatively new market that is expected to result in a significant increase in the number of connected devices worldwide and unlock new business capabilities. Total global cellular IoT device shipments are expected to grow from approximately 450 million in 2024 to approximately 700 million by 2028. Automobiles represent a significant opportunity within the IoT market, with approximately 60 million connected vehicles shipped in 2024, which is expected to grow significantly in the future. Video Services, a rapidly growing market, encompass a wide range of consumer video entertainment platforms, including SVOD, AVOD, Virtual Multichannel Video Programming Distributor ("vMVPD"), Free Ad-Supported Streaming TV ("FAST"), and social media platforms. Collectively, the Video Services market is expected to grow from approximately $370 billion of annual revenue in 2024 to approximately $500 billion of annual revenue by 2027. 7 Table of Contents Overview of Standardization To achieve economies of scale and support interoperability among different participants, many wireless and consumer electronics products have been designed to operate in accordance with certain industry standards and common technical specifications. Wireless industry standards, for example, are formal requirements and guidelines for engineers, designers, manufacturers and service providers that regulate and define the use of the radio frequency spectrum in conjunction with providing detailed specifications for wireless communications products. The consumer electronics industry also implements many of the same standards, including standards related to Wi-Fi and increasingly, cellular technologies, as well as a broad range of video coding standards and technical specifications that enable the efficient rendering of video content. Technology related to these video coding standards also enable the media content and video streaming industries. New standards and specifications are typically adopted with each new generation of products and services, are often compatible with previous generations and are defined to ensure equipment interoperability and regulatory compliance. SDOs, which facilitate and govern the development of standards, typically ask participating companies to declare formally whether they believe they hold patents or patent applications essential or potentially essential to a particular standard and whether they are willing to license those patents on either a royalty-bearing basis on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms or on a royalty-free basis. To manufacture, have made, sell, offer to sell or use such products on a non-infringing basis, a manufacturer or other entity doing so needs to obtain a license from the holder of essential patent rights. The SDOs neither have enforcement authority against entities that fail to obtain required licenses, nor do they have the ability to protect the intellectual property rights of holders of essential patents. InterDigital often publicly characterizes aspects of its business, including license agreements and development projects, as pertaining to industry standardized technologies such as, for example, 3G, 4G, 5G, Wi-Fi, HEVC, and VVC. In doing this, we generally rely on the positions of the applicable SDOs in defining the relevant standards. However, the definitions may evolve or change over time, including after we have characterized certain transactions. Business Activities 2024 Patent Licensing Activity During 2024, we entered into fourteen patent license agreements as discussed below. Direct Licenses In January 2024, we signed a patent license agreement with Samsung Electronics (the "Samsung TV agreement"). The agreement licenses Samsungs digital TVs and computer display monitors under InterDigital's joint licensing program with Sony and includes licenses to key technologies including ATSC 3.0, as well as licenses under InterDigitals patents including HEVC, VVC and Wi-Fi. In June 2024, we signed a new device license agreement with Google. The agreement licenses a range of devices including Pixel smartphones, Fitbit wearables, and other consumer electronics devices to InterDigitals cellular wireless, Wi-Fi, and HEVC video patented technologies. In October 2024, we entered into a patent license agreement with OPPO. The agreement covers OPPO, realme and OnePlus branded mobile devices worldwide. As part of the agreement, both parties agreed to dismiss all pending litigations between us. In October 2024, we entered into an arbitration agreement with Lenovo to determine the terms of a new patent license. As part of the agreement to arbitrate, both parties agreed to dismiss all pending litigations between us. Additionally, we entered into licenses covering our technologies with Arcelik, Blu, Ericsson, Kyocera, Panasonic, Teltronic, TPV, and ZTE. Customers Generating Revenues Exceeding 10% of Total 2024 Revenues A small number of customers historically have accounted for a significant portion of our consolidated revenues. In fiscal 2024, revenues (in descending order) from Samsung, Lenovo, Apple, and OPPO each comprised 10% or more of our consolidated revenues. Additional information regarding revenue concentrations is provided in this Annual Report in Note 4, "Segment and Concentration Information" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K. 8 Table of Contents In 2022, we agreed to renew our patent license agreement with Samsung and enter into binding arbitration to determine the final terms of the license, including the amount payable by Samsung under the new agreement. In 2023, we began recognizing revenue for Samsung at a conservative level consistent with the revenue we recognized from our patent license agreement that expired on December 31, 2022. We believe that it is likely the arbitration award will exceed the conservative estimate and require a true-up at the time of the award. The two-week arbitration hearing was held in July 2024, and we expect a decision in early 2025. Additionally, we recognized revenue from the Samsung TV agreement signed in 2024 as noted above in 2024 Patent Licensing Activity. As discussed above in 2024 Patent Licensing Activity, in 2024 we entered into an arbitration agreement with Lenovo to determine the terms of a new patent license. We began recognizing revenue at a conservative level, consistent with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP"). Additionally, in 2024 we recognized revenues from the multi-year, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty bearing license with Lenovo covering InterDigitals HEVC patents that was signed in 2023. In 2022, we renewed a multi-year, royalty-bearing, worldwide, and non-exclusive patent license agreement with Apple (the Apple PLA). The agreement sets forth terms covering Apple's business, including its sale of 3G, 4G, and 5G cellular and wireless-enabled products. The term of the Apple PLA extends through September 30, 2029. In 2024, we entered into the above-noted patent license agreement with OPPO. The term of the OPPO patent license agreement extends through December 31, 2027, and we began recognizing revenue from this agreement in fourth quarter 2024. Patent Infringement and Declaratory Judgment Proceedings From time to time, if we believe a party is required to license our patents in order to manufacture, use and/or sell certain products and such party refuses to do so, we may agree with such party to have royalties or other terms set by third party adjudicators (such as arbitrators) or, in certain circumstances, we may institute legal action against them. Enforcing our intellectual property through legal action is an important alternative to bilateral negotiations with respect to licensees who engage in the pernicious practice of "holdout". In recent years, courts in various jurisdictions have addressed holdout behavior, recognizing that fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory ("FRAND") obligations are bilateral and failure of implementers to act in a FRAND manner can result in certain penalties. We welcome this development as it incentivizes potential licensees to negotiate in a timely and reasonable fashion as well as providing a necessary balance to FRAND negotiations. Enforcement of our patent portfolio has typically taken the form of a patent infringement lawsuit or an administrative proceeding, such as a Section 337 proceeding before the U.S. International Trade Commission ("USITC" or the "Commission"). In a patent infringement lawsuit, we would typically seek damages for past infringement, an injunction against future infringement, declaratory judgment and/or other relief. In a USITC proceeding, we would seek an exclusion order to bar infringing goods from entry into the United States, as well as a cease and desist order to bar further sales of infringing goods that have already been imported into the United States. Parties may bring administrative and/or judicial challenges to the validity, enforceability, essentiality and/or applicability of our patents to their products or seek to petition a court to establish a rate and/or terms for a license to our patents. Parties may also allege that our efforts to enter into a license with that party do not comply with any obligations we may have in connection with our participation in standards-setting organizations, and therefore that we are not entitled to the relief that we seek. For example, a party may allege that we have not complied with an obligation to offer (or be prepared to offer) a license to that party for patents that are or may become standards-essential patents ("SEPs") on FRAND terms and conditions, and may also file antitrust claims or regulatory complaints on that or other bases, and may seek damages or other relief based on such claims. In addition, a party might file a declaratory judgment action to seek a court's declaration that our patents are invalid, unenforceable, not infringed by the other party's products or are not SEPs. Our response to such a declaratory judgment action may include claims of infringement. When we include claims of infringement in a patent infringement lawsuit, a favorable ruling for the Company can result in the payment of monetary damages for past manufacture, use and/or sale of the patented invention, the setting of terms and conditions for a license, issuance by the court of an injunction enjoining the infringer from manufacturing, using and/or selling infringing products and/or a declaration of FRAND compliance. 9 Table of Contents Contractual Arbitration Proceedings We and our licensees, in the normal course of business, may have disagreements as to the rights and obligations of the parties under applicable agreements. For example, we could have a disagreement with a licensee as to the amount of reported sales and royalties. Our patent license agreements typically provide for private confidential arbitration as the mechanism for resolving disputes with our licensees. In arbitration, licensees may seek to assert various claims, defenses, or counterclaims, such as claims based on waiver, promissory estoppel, breach of contract, fraudulent inducement to contract, antitrust, and unfair competition. Arbitration proceedings can be resolved through an award rendered by the arbitrators or by settlement between the parties. Parties to arbitration might have the right to have the award reviewed in a court of competent jurisdiction; however, based on public policy favoring the use of arbitration, it is generally difficult to have arbitration awards vacated or modified. The party securing an arbitration award may seek to have that award confirmed as a judgment through an enforcement proceeding. The purpose of such a proceeding is to secure a judgment that can be used for, if need be, seizing assets of the other party. In addition, arbitration may be a particularly effective means for resolving disputes with prospective licensees concerning the appropriate FRAND terms and conditions for license agreements that include SEPs, particularly where negotiations have otherwise reached an impasse. Binding arbitration to resolve the terms and conditions of a worldwide FRAND license to our patent portfolio is an efficient and cost-effective mechanism, as it allows the parties to avoid piecemeal litigation in multiple jurisdictions and ensures that an enforceable patent license agreement that is consistent with FRAND commitments will be in place at the end of the arbitration process. Competition With respect to our technology development activities and resulting commercialization efforts, we face competition from companies, including in-house development teams at other wireless and video technology companies, consumer electronics device companies, semiconductor companies, wireless operators, video streaming and cloud service companies, and other technology providers, developing other and similar technologies that are competitive with our technologies that we may market or set forth into the standards-setting arena. Due to the exclusionary nature of patent rights, we do not compete, in a traditional sense, with other patent holders for patent licensing relationships or sale transactions. Other patent holders do not have the same rights to the inventions and technologies encompassed by our patent portfolio. In any device, piece of equipment, or service that contains intellectual property, the manufacturer or implementer may need to obtain licenses from multiple holders of intellectual property. In licensing our patent portfolio, we compete with other patent holders for a share of the royalties that certain licensees may argue to be the total royalty that is supported by certain products or services, which they may argue face practical limitations. We believe that licenses under a number of our patents are required to manufacture and sell wireless products, as well as other consumer electronics devices, and to implement certain technology services. However, numerous companies also claim that they hold patents that are or may be essential or may become essential to standards-based technology deployed on wireless products, other consumer electronics devices and services. To the extent that multiple parties all seek royalties on the same product or service, the manufacturers could claim to have difficulty in meeting the financial requirements of each patent holder. In the past, certain manufacturers have sought antitrust exemptions to act collectively on a voluntary basis. In addition, certain manufacturers have sought to limit aggregate licensing fees or rates for SEPs. Sustainability We believe our innovation provides the framework for a future increasingly shaped by the profound convergence of wireless, video, and AI technologies. As these technologies become more ubiquitous and deliver immense benefits across the global ecosystem, we believe it is important that the future we are enabling continues to be anchored by a core set of values, ethics, and principles. Our heritage of innovation has produced technologies that fundamentally improve efficiency and power consumption across billions of devices, network infrastructure, and delivered services. Our sustainability principles continue this legacy and shape our pursuit of a more sustainable, representative, diverse, and equitable world. Our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee has primary oversight over environmental, social and other sustainability matters, which it exercises in conjunction with the committees of the Board. In addition, our Chief Financial Officer oversees a committee of senior executives that steers the process of setting purpose, strategies, policies and goals related to economic, environmental and social topics. We are committed to sustainable business principles, to thinking long-term, and to making strategic decisions that adhere to our mission and values. We strive to focus and make progress on initiatives that matter most to our business, our employees, communities, and external stakeholders. Among other things, this means aligning our standards to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and its underlying principles around the environment, the workforce, anti-corruption, and human rights. 10 Table of Contents We are committed to driving positive progress towards reducing the environmental footprint that the deployment of 5G, wireless networks, and other video technologies will bring. While our business activities do not entail the same concerns related to manufacturing or raw materials sourcing and disposal, our corporate sustainability strategy addresses the following: investing in best practices to track and reduce our carbon footprint, including environmental considerations, and reporting related to data center needs; investigating and reducing unnecessary energy consumption; continuing to manage our environmental footprint with our office improvements; and supporting our employee community in reducing commuting impact through embracing a hybrid office schedule and offering mobility programs. As a pure research business, we consider our carbon impact through our handprint and the ways our innovation and contributions to global standards empower energy efficiencies and sustainable outcomes. Our research not only offers significant advances in the operational performance of various systems, but also reduced environmental impact through efficiency improvements, reduced power consumption, and by altering the way that products are used, serviced, or maintained worldwide. We were named by LexisNexis as one of the top 100 companies whose innovation is helping progress towards achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. InterDigital ranks among the industry leaders for highest patent quality for 5G and video codec patents. 5G technology is designed to efficiently use energy throughout its ecosystem and will play a significant role in promoting and attaining sustainability goals. We have published white papers exploring how 5G and the emerging IoT ecosystem might shape sustainability efforts for the ICT industry. While the proliferation of connected devices can drive increases in energy consumption, innovative solutions can mitigate these outcomes to help lower our carbon footprint and engage more sustainably. In fact, one of our reports found that by 2030, IoT deployment and its subsequent disruption of various industries is projected to save more than eight times the energy it consumes which could help to save up to 230 billion cubic meters of water and eliminate up to one gigaton of CO2 emissions. Additionally, 5G technology has significant potential societal benefits, including promoting productivity-led economic growth, increasing medical diagnostic capabilities, creating more sustainable cities and communities, improving remote education, and reducing inequalities in education and income. We believe that the benefits to be derived from 5G are substantial and will be felt throughout society. The foregoing discussion includes information regarding sustainability matters that we believe may be of interest to our shareholders generally. We recognize that certain other stakeholders (such as customers, employees and non-governmental organizations), as well as certain of our shareholders, may be interested in more detailed information on these topics. We encourage you to review our most recent Corporate Sustainability Report (located on our website) for more detailed information regarding our Corporate Sustainability governance, goals, priorities, accomplishments and initiatives, as well as the Corporate Governance section of our most recent Proxy Statement, and our Corporate Governance Principles and Practices (located on our website), for additional information regarding governance matters, including Board and Committee leadership, oversight, roles and responsibilities, and Director independence, tenure, refreshment and diversity. Nothing on our website, including the aforementioned reports and documents, or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Human Capital Overview We are committed to making InterDigital an exceptional place to work, fostering a workplace where all employees feel valued, respected, included, and challenged. We aim to create an environment that attracts, engages, and retains a talented workforce that drives the companys growth and long-term sustained success. Our Human Capital Committee is responsible for overseeing our policies and strategies related to culture and human capital. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately 430 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 220 employees based outside of the United States, nearly all of whom were full-time. Our employees in France are represented by works councils and are subject to collective bargaining agreements. None of our employees based in the United States or Canada are unionized or subject to collective bargaining agreements. Management believes that its relationships with our employees and works councils are strong and productive. 11 Table of Contents Health, Safety & Well-Being Over the past few years, as our work and lifestyle have evolved, weve been dedicated to developing a flexible work model that supports our employees. This model offers the option to work full-time in the office, fully remotely, or a combination of both, ensuring we meet the diverse needs of our team. We provide holistic benefits and maintain company policies that promote a culture of wellness. We offer a minimum of twelve weeks of paid parental leave globally and have kept employees connected to volunteer opportunities that benefited both their mental health and communities through our Charity Day paid time off program. Compensation & Benefits Our compensation program is designed to be market competitive, offering base salaries and incentives that reward individual contributions aligned with the Companys strategy and mission. We provide a total compensation package that is competitive with the markets in which we operate, with individual pay differentiated based on performance, skills and experience. Our total rewards plans include base salary, short- and long-term incentives, healthcare benefits, retirement savings plans, well-being programs, hybrid work arrangements, and both monetary and social recognition across our global locations. In addition to comprehensive health benefits, employees may have access to location-specific perks, such as subsidized fitness programs, commuter benefits, wellness incentives, tuition reimbursement, and professional development opportunities. We routinely review our total rewards programs to ensure they remain competitive, supporting our ability attract and retain the diverse talent necessary for business growth. Talent and Culture Research, learning, and growth are fundamental to executing our promise to the world to innovate today to empower tomorrow. We believe our talent drives our business success and we focus on investing in our talent practices to provide the most benefit to our employees. Our Talent philosophy focuses on cultivating a culture of high performance, career development, and employee engagement, empowering our workforce its full potential. Our Talent Acquisition strategy is aligned with this philosophy and supports InterDigitals cultural values and business objectives. Through targeted talent programs, we are able to attract and retain top talent by offering opportunities for learning and career advancement. We take a proactive approach by regularly evaluating our talent offerings and deploying strategies that promote actionable experiences to attract, develop, and retain top talent. Our company values are central to our operations and talent practices. In 2024, we redefined these values based on employee feedback to better align with our evolving culture. These values are now integrated into our learning practices and will be incorporated into future goal setting and performance management practices. Our Leadership Development model, available to all employees, provides a comprehensive suite of tools and resources for growth across four key areas; thought leadership, results leadership, people leadership, and self-leadership. Recognizing that all employees are leaders at every level, this model is integrated into our culture and recruitment strategies to align with our competency model. The development of leadership skills is pivotal in fostering our culture of innovation, inclusivity, and collaboration. Leaders have access to a range of structured development and learning experiences, including performance management training, focused on behavior-based competencies and feedback practices. We encourage ongoing dialogue between leaders and employees, promoting ongoing development and empowering employees to leverage create meaningful and actionable development plans that drive personal and company growth. InterDigital encourages all employees to participate in internal and external development opportunities, including, training sessions, workshops, and industry conferences. We invest in these opportunities to support employee growth, which in turn, drives organizational success. These experiences enhance employee knowledge and skills while contributing valuable perspectives to our Company. We continue to invest in processes to assess and develop talent, including a formalized annual performance evaluation program, critical skills and potential analysis, and succession planning for key and senior roles. All employees undergo an annual performance review and participate in our engagement survey efforts. The performance review process includes bi-annual assessments of individual performance, allowing employees to assess their own achievements and receive feedback on goals and development opportunities. In 2024, we conducted an engagement pulse survey to supplement our broader 2023 survey efforts, providing additional insights into our strengths in fostering an innovative and inclusive culture, and areas for continued improvement to be a winning team. We believe our workplace culture, values, and competitive compensation and benefits are critical to maintaining low levels of attrition, thereby enabling us to attract and retain top talent. For the year ended December 31, 2024, our voluntary attrition percentage was less than 5%. 12 Table of Contents Our Inclusive Global Workforce We participate in the highly competitive process of advancing communication, video, and AI technologies through our engagement with global SDOs. To succeed in the global marketplace, we require a highly educated, skilled, and specialized workforce, and we believe maintaining a diverse and inclusive environment is essential. We are a company of world-class inventors that strive to foster a diverse and stimulating environment where creative, intelligent, and ambitious people can develop and grow. Our workforce reflects significant global diversity, with approximately 430 employees representing nearly 60 countries and approximately 71% male employees and 29% female employees. Our goal is to provide an environment where employees are empowered to leverage their unique experiences and backgrounds to drive collaboration and technological innovation, and ultimately allow us to execute on our business plans. The foregoing discussion includes information regarding Human Capital matters intended to address topics of interest to shareholders generally. We recognize that other stakeholders including customers, employees, organizations, and some shareholders, may seek more detailed insights on these topics. We encourage stakeholders to review the Human Capital section of our most recent Corporate Sustainability Report, available on our website, for further details on our Human Capital programs and initiatives, which includes our most recent Consolidated EEO-1 reports detailing our workforce composition. Nothing on our website, including the Consolidated EEO-1 reports and our Corporate Sustainability Report, or any sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Geographic Concentrations See Note 4, "Segment and Concentration Information," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K for financial information about geographic areas for the last three years. Corporate Information The ultimate predecessor company of InterDigital, Inc. was incorporated in 1972 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and conducted its initial public offering in November 1981. Our headquarters are located in Wilmington, Delaware. Our research and development activities are conducted primarily in facilities located in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania; New York, New York; Los Altos, California; Montreal, Canada; London, United Kingdom; and Rennes, France. We are also a party to leases for several smaller research and/or office spaces, including in Melville, New York; Indianapolis, Indiana; Brussels, Belgium; Espoo, Finland; Paris, France, and Beijing, China. In addition, we own an administrative office space in Washington, District of Columbia. Our Internet address is www.interdigital.com, where, in the "Investors" section, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, certain other reports and filings required to be filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and all amendments to those reports or filings as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov. The information contained on or connected to our website or any other website referenced herein is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Item 1A.RISK FACTORS. We face a variety of risks that may affect our business, financial condition, operating results, the trading price of our common stock, or any combination thereof. You should carefully consider the following information and the other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating our business and prospects and before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our plans to expand our revenue opportunities may not be successful. As part of our business strategy, we regularly seek to expand our revenue opportunities both organically and inorganically. In particular, we have expanded our licensing activities beyond device-based licensing revenue to certain video and cloud-based service providers. The market for licensing video and cloud-based services is not as developed as device-based licensing programs. As a result, video and cloud-based service providers do not have a significant volume of comparable agreements against which to compare our offers and may use this as a reason to delay our negotiations with such providers. Additionally, our pricing models may not reflect the value of our technologies in the eyes of our customers. And, because this market is less developed, holdout behavior may be more likely than in device licensing. Service providers may also opt to use alternative technologies for which we have little or no patent coverage. Accordingly, we may not be able to enter into license agreements with these providers on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Services revenue is a key component of our future growth, and if we are unable to successfully launch and execute a services licensing program, we will not reach our revenue targets, and our business, financial condition and prospects could be harmed. Challenges relating to our ability to enter into new license agreements and renew existing license agreements could cause our revenue and cash flow to decline. We face challenges in entering into new patent license agreements. Most implementers of our technology do not voluntarily seek to enter into license agreements with us before they commence manufacturing and/or selling devices that use our patented inventions. The process of identifying users of our inventions and negotiating license agreements with reluctant prospective licensees requires significant time, effort and expense. Some infringers may act in bad faith, by attempting to hold out on taking a license altogether or behaving opportunistically in license negotiations. Even good faith negotiations are often very long and complex, involving significant company time and resources. Given these challenges, we cannot ensure that we will be able to enter into patent license agreements either at all or on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, given the large number of implementers using our patented inventions, we may not be able to identify all potential licensees. Once identified, it is not feasible for us to seek licenses from all users of our patented technologies, so we have to make strategic decisions with respect to which companies we should approach for license negotiations. Uncertainty related to entry into new license agreements could impact our forecasts and ultimately, revenue, cash flow and business. We also face challenges in renewing our existing license agreements. Although we endeavor to renew license agreements prior to their expiration, due to various factors, including the technology and business needs and competitive positions of our licensees and, at times, reluctance on the part of our licensees to participate in renewal discussions, we may not be able to renegotiate the license agreements on acceptable terms before the expiration of the license agreement, or at all. If there is a delay in renegotiating and renewing a license agreement prior to its expiration, there could be a gap in time during which we may be unable to recognize revenue from that licensee or we may be forced to renegotiate and renew the license agreement on terms that are more favorable to such licensee. If we fail to renegotiate and renew our license agreements prior to their expiration, at all or on terms that are favorable to us, our forecasts, revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. Royalties or other terms under our patent license agreements could be subject to determination through arbitration or other third-party adjudications or regulatory or court proceedings, and arbitrators, judges or other third-party adjudicators or regulators could make unfavorable determinations. Historically, we strive for the terms of our patent license agreements, including royalties, to be reached through arms-length bilateral negotiations with our licensees. We could agree, as we did with Samsung and Lenovo pursuant to binding arbitration agreements, to have royalties and any other disputed terms set by third party adjudicators (such as arbitrators). We have no guarantee that the royalties or other terms set by arbitrators, courts or other third parties will be favorable to us. It is possible that courts or regulators could decide to set or otherwise determine the FRAND consistency of such terms or the manner in which such terms are determined, including by determining a worldwide royalty for our SEPs. Changes to or clarifications of our obligations to be prepared to offer licenses to SEPs on FRAND terms and conditions could require such terms, including our royalties, to be determined through third party adjudications. Finally, we and certain of our current and prospective licensees have initiated, and we and others could in the future initiate, legal proceedings or regulatory proceedings requesting third party adjudicators or regulators to set FRAND terms and conditions for a worldwide license to our SEPs, or to determine the FRAND-consistency of current terms and conditions in our patent license agreements. Chinese courts have affirmed their position that in certain SEP licensing disputes, Chinese courts can set worldwide royalties, and in December 2023, one such court issued such a decision setting a worldwide royalty for Nokias cellular patents. We have faced similar proceedings with OPPO in China to determine a worldwide royalty for certain of our SEPs as well as royalty-setting proceedings in the UK initiated by Lenovo and Tesla. If any court or arbitration tribunal decision sets a worldwide royalty rate that is unfavorable to us, our standard essential patent portfolio could be significantly devalued as it relates to the FRAND royalty an implementer should pay, which could in turn negatively impact pricing with other licensees. 14 Table of Contents To the extent that our patent royalties for our patent license agreements are determined through arbitration or other third party adjudications or regulatory or court proceedings rather than through bilateral negotiations, because such proceedings are inherently unpredictable and uncertain and there are currently few precedents for such determinations, it is possible that royalties may be lower than our accounting estimates and/or comparable licenses. This could also have a negative impact on royalties we are able to obtain from future licensees, which may have an adverse effect on our revenue and cash flow. Prospective customers may delay, and in some cases have delayed, negotiations on the basis of an adverse decision. In addition, to the extent that other terms and conditions for our patent license agreements are determined through such means, such terms and conditions could be less favorable than our historical terms and conditions, which could have an adverse effect on our licensing business more broadly. We could continue to be involved in a number of costly litigation, arbitration and administrative proceedings to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights and to defend our licensing practices. Although we always seek to enter into licenses through bi-lateral negotiations, sometimes licensees are unwilling and litigation is necessary. This may be even more true with respect to video services licensing than device licensing since licensing efforts in this space are newer. While some companies seek licenses before they commence manufacturing and/or selling devices or services that use our patented inventions, the vast majority do not. Consequently, we approach companies and seek to establish license agreements for using our inventions. We expend significant time and effort identifying users and potential users of our inventions and negotiating license agreements with companies that may be reluctant to take licenses. If a third party implementer is unwilling to take a license on reasonable terms or in a reasonable time frame, or at all, we have in the past commenced, and may in the future commence, legal or administrative actions against such third parties to enforce our intellectual property rights. In turn, we have faced, and expect to continue to face, counterclaims and other legal proceedings that challenge the essential nature of our patents, or that claim that our patents are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. Litigation adversaries have and may continue to allege that we have not complied with certain commitments to standards-setting organizations and therefore that we are not entitled to the relief that we seek. Parties have also filed, and may in the future file, antitrust claims, unfair competition claims or regulatory complaints on that or other bases, and may seek damages and other relief based on such claims. Litigation adversaries have also filed against us, and other third parties may in the future file, validity challenges such as inter partes proceedings in the USPTO or the China National Intellectual Property Administration, which can lead to delays of our patent infringement actions as well as potential findings of invalidity. Such parties may also seek to obtain a determination that our patents are not infringed, are not essential or are unenforceable. Litigation may be also required to protect our trade secrets, enforce patent license and confidentiality agreements or determine the validity, enforceability and scope of proprietary rights of others. The cost of enforcing and defending our intellectual property and of defending our licensing practices has been and may continue to be significant, in particular with rising fees from outside counsel. As a result, we could be subject to significant legal fees and costs, including in certain jurisdictions the costs and fees of opposing counsel if we are unsuccessful. In addition, litigation, arbitration and administrative proceedings require significant key employee involvement for significant periods of time, which could divert these employees from other business activities. Potential patent and litigation reform legislation, potential USPTO and international patent rule changes, potential legislation affecting mechanisms for patent enforcement and available remedies, and potential changes to the intellectual property rights (IPR) policies of worldwide standards bodies, as well as rulings in legal proceedings, may affect our investments in research and development and our strategies for patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement and could have a material adverse effect on our licensing business as well as our business as a whole. Potential changes to certain U.S. and international patent laws, rules and regulations may occur in the future, some or all of which may affect our research and development investments, patent prosecution costs, the scope of future patent coverage we secure, the number of forums in which we can seek to enforce our patents, the remedies that we may be entitled to in patent litigation, and attorneys fees or other remedies that could be sought against us, and may require us to reevaluate and modify our research and development activities and patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement strategies. For example, the State Administration for Market Regulation in China regularly reviews its policies related to intellectual property and antitrust laws, and any such review could result in ambiguous standards and/or create a worse position for patent holders like us. Additionally, the European Commission (EC) has initiated a review of the EUs IP policies as they relate to SEPs and FRAND. This review is currently being discussed and debated inside the European Parliament and the European Council and any change to the legal or regulatory landscape as a result of this review could impact our ability to negotiate license agreements on favorable terms or at all, while also limiting our potential legal remedies and materially impacting our business. Further, legislation designed to reduce the value of SEPs and alter the U.S. patent system, including legislation designed to reduce the jurisdiction and remedial authority of the USITC, has periodically been introduced in Congress. 15 Table of Contents Any potential changes in the law, the IPR policies of standards bodies or other developments that reduce the available forums or the types of relief available in such forums (such as injunctive relief), restrict permissible licensing practices (such as our ability to license on a worldwide portfolio basis) or that otherwise cause us to seek alternative forums (such as arbitration or state court), would make it more difficult for us to enforce our patents, whether in adversarial proceedings or in negotiations. Because we have historically depended on the availability of certain forms of legal process to enforce our patents and obtain fair and adequate compensation for our investments in research and development and the unauthorized use of our intellectual property, developments that undermine our ability to do so could have a negative impact on future licensing efforts. Rulings in our legal proceedings, as well as those of third parties, may affect our strategies for patent prosecution, licensing and royalty setting and enforcement. For example, in the past, the USITC and U.S. courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court, have taken actions that have been viewed as unfavorable to patentees, including us. Decisions that occur in the U.S. or in international forums may change the law applicable to various patent law issues, such as, for example, patentability, validity, claim construction, patent exhaustion, patent misuse, permissible licensing practices, available forums, and remedies such as damages and injunctive relief, in ways that are detrimental to the ability of patentees to enforce patents and obtain suitable relief. There are regularly discussions within the EC regarding potential regulations and policy changes that could determine how and whether a patent is essential to a standard. The risk of having our patents determined essential based on a single methodology or specific criteria and conditions associated with patent enforcement and licensing as imposed by the EC would affect our strategies as well. Ongoing uncertainty related to the feasibility and criteria used for this evaluation as well as the cost associated with such essentiality determination could impact the assessment of our SEP portfolio. We continue to monitor and evaluate our strategies for prosecution, licensing and enforcement with regard to these developments; however, any resulting change in such strategies may have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Our ability to license device manufacturers and service providers in China may be adversely affected by a deterioration in United States-China trade and geopolitical relations, our customers facing economic uncertainty there or our failure to establish a positive reputation in China. Companies headquartered in China currently comprise a substantial portion of the handset manufacturers that remain unlicensed to our patent portfolio as well as manufacturers of other devices and services that use our patented inventions. Our ability to renew license agreements with current licensees in China as well as license new manufacturers is, among other things, affected by the macroeconomic and geopolitical climate, as well as our business relationships and perceived reputation in China. The U.S. and Chinese governments are regularly engaged in various trade discussions, and the U.S. State Department originally issued a travel advisory in January 2019 and reissued this travel advisory on January 11, 2023 advising U.S. citizens to exercise increased caution in China due to arbitrary enforcement of local laws. In January 2020, the U.S. and China entered into Phase One of the Economic and Trade Agreement, which took steps to ease certain trade tensions between the U.S. and China, including tensions involving intellectual property theft and forced intellectual property transfers by China. Although the Phase One Trade Agreement was an encouraging sign of progress in the trade negotiations between the U.S. and China, questions still remain as to the enforcement of its terms, the resolution of a number of other points of dispute between the parties, and the prevention of further tensions. Additionally, President Trump has indicated that his administration would potentially impose greater restrictions on trade with China through significant increases in tariffs on goods imported into the U.S., which could increase tensions and create greater uncertainty in our business dealings in China and with Chinese companies. Our ability to renew or conclude new license agreements with such manufacturers could also be affected by economic uncertainty, particularly in the handset market, in China or by our failure to establish a positive reputation and relationships in China. China is a key market for us, and any of these factors could harm our ability to execute our business plans there and could in turn cause our long-term business, financial condition and operating results to be materially adversely affected. We may face setbacks in defending our patent licensing practices. Adverse decisions in litigation or regulatory actions relating to our licensing practices, including, but not limited to, findings that we have not complied with our FRAND commitments and/or engaged in anticompetitive or unfair licensing activities or that any of our license agreements are void or unenforceable, could have an adverse impact on our cash flow and revenue. Regulatory bodies may assess fines in the event of adverse findings, and as part of court or arbitration proceedings, a judgment could require us to pay damages (including the possibility of treble damages for antitrust claims). In addition, to the extent that legal decisions find patent license agreements to be void or unenforceable in whole or in part, that could lead to a decrease in the revenue associated with and cash flow generated by such agreements, and, depending on the damages requested, could lead to the refund of certain payments already made. Such decisions could also cause serious reputational harm. Finally, adverse legal decisions related to our licensing practices could have an adverse effect on our ability to enter into license agreements, which, in turn, could cause our cash flow and revenue to decline. 16 Table of Contents We face competition from companies developing other or similar technologies. We face competition from companies developing other and similar technologies that are competitive with our technologies, including in the standards-setting arena. Due to competition, our technologies may not find a viable commercial marketplace or, where applicable, be adopted by the relevant standards. In particular, increasing participation within standards-setting organizations has contributed to greater competition for influence within such organizations and for ultimately setting standards. In addition, in licensing our patent portfolio, we may compete with other companies, many of whom also claim to hold SEPs, for a share of the royalties that certain licensees may argue to be the total royalty that is supported by a certain product or products. In any device or piece of equipment that contains intellectual property, the manufacturer may need to obtain a license from multiple holders of intellectual property. To the extent that multiple parties all seek royalties on the same product, the manufacturers could claim to have difficulty in meeting the financial requirements of each patent holder. Royalties could decrease for future license agreements due to downward product pricing pressures and competition over patent royalties. Royalty payments to us under future license agreements could be lower than anticipated. Certain licensees and others in the wireless and consumer electronics industries, individually and collectively, are demanding that royalties for patents be lower than historic royalties and/or should be applied to royalty bases smaller than the selling price of an end product (such as the smallest salable patent practicing unit). There is also increasing downward pricing pressure on certain wireless products, including handsets, and other consumer electronics devices that we believe implement our patented inventions, and some of our royalties are tied to the pricing of these devices. In addition, a number of other companies also claim to hold patents that are essential with respect to products we aim to license. Demands by certain licensees to reduce royalties due to pricing pressure or the number of patent holders seeking royalties on these technologies could result in a decrease in the royalties we receive for use of our patented inventions, thereby decreasing future revenue and cash flow. Our technologies may not become patented, adopted by wireless or video standards or widely deployed. We invest significant resources in the development of advanced technology and related solutions. However, certain of our inventions that we believe will be employed in current and future products, including 4G, 5G, HEVC, VVC and others, are the subject of patent applications where no patent has been issued to us yet by the relevant patent issuing authorities. There is no assurance that these applications will issue as patents, either at all or with claims that would be required by products in the market currently or in the future. Our investments may not be recoverable or may not result in meaningful revenue if a sufficient number of our technologies are not patented and/or adopted by the relevant standards or if products based on the technologies in which we invest are not widely deployed. Competing technologies could reduce the opportunities for the adoption or deployment of technologies we develop. In addition, it is possible that in certain technology areas, such as in the IoT space, the adoption of proprietary systems could compete with or replace standards-based technology. It is also possible in certain technology areas, such as video coding and the IoT, that open source and/or purportedly royalty-free solutions such as AV1, VP-9 and OCF could compete with or replace proprietary standards-based technology. If the technologies in which we invest do not become patented, are not adopted by the relevant standards, or are not adopted by and deployed in the mainstream markets, at all or at the rate or within time periods that we expect, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Setbacks in defending and enforcing our patent rights could cause our revenue and cash flow to decline. Some third parties have challenged, and we expect will continue to challenge, the infringement, validity and enforceability of certain of our patents. In some instances, certain of our patent claims could be substantially narrowed or declared invalid, unenforceable, not essential or not infringed. For example, in limited cases, certain of our patents have been held invalid by courts in proceedings initiated by counterparties to our litigation proceedings. We cannot ensure that the validity and enforceability of our patents will be maintained or that our patents will be determined to be applicable to any particular product or standard. Moreover, third parties could attempt to circumvent certain of our patents through design changes. Any significant adverse findings as to the validity, infringement, enforceability or scope of our patents and/or any successful design-around of our patents could result in the loss of patent licensing revenue from existing licensees, through termination or modification of agreements or otherwise, and could substantially impair our ability to secure new patent licensing arrangements, either at all or on beneficial terms. 17 Table of Contents Macroeconomic conditions may harm our business. A decline in economic conditions, such as a recession, economic downturn or inflationary conditions in the U.S. or elsewhere could adversely affect our business. In particular, inflation has accelerated and remained high in the U.S. and globally. Trade tensions or restrictions on free trade, including the tariffs that have been proposed by President Trump, could exacerbate these effects. A majority of our revenue is derived from patent license agreements that provide for fixed payments that were negotiated before the recent rise in inflation. An inflationary environment can increase our cost of labor, as well as our other operating costs, without a corresponding increase in our revenue, which may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Scrutiny by antitrust authorities may affect our strategies for patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement and may increase our costs of doing business and/or lead to monetary fines, penalties or other remedies or sanctions. Domestic and foreign antitrust authorities regularly review their policies with respect to the use of SEPs, including the enforcement of such patents against competitors and others. Such scrutiny has in the past resulted in enforcement actions against Qualcomm and other licensing companies, and could lead to additional investigations of, or enforcement actions against, us. Such inquiries and/or enforcement actions could impact the availability of injunctive and monetary relief, which may adversely affect our strategies for patent prosecution, licensing and enforcement and increase our costs of operation. Such inquiries and/or enforcement actions could also result in monetary fines, penalties or other remedies or sanctions that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are subject to risks resulting from customer concentration. We earn a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of licensees or customers, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to come from a limited number of licensees or customers for the foreseeable future. For example, in 2024, Samsung, Lenovo, Apple, and OPPO each comprised 10% or more of our consolidated revenues. Further, because of the limited number of licensees and potential licensees, any opportunistic behavior during license negotiations by a company or companies using our technology could create large exposure for us. In the event that we are unable to renew one or more of such license agreements at all or on terms that are favorable to us, our future revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. In the event that one or more of our significant licensees or customers fail to meet their payment or reporting obligations (for example, due to a credit issue or in connection with a legal dispute or similar proceeding) under their respective license agreements, our future revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. In addition, in the event that there is a material decrease in shipments of licensed products by one of our per-unit licensees, our revenues from such licensee could significantly decline and our future revenue and cash flow could be adversely affected. Additionally, there is significant concentration in the wireless communications industry in general, and these trends may continue. For example, in 2024, Samsung, Apple, and Xiaomi collectively accounted for over 50% of worldwide smartphone shipments, and we anticipate a similar level of concentration in worldwide shipments for future years. Any further concentration or sale within the wireless industry among handset providers may reduce the number of licensing opportunities or, in some instances, result in the reduction, loss or elimination of existing royalty obligations. Further, if wireless carriers consolidate with companies that utilize technologies that are competitive with our technologies or that are not covered by our patents, we could lose market opportunities, which could negatively impact our revenues and financial condition. We may not be successful in growing our business inorganically, and any acquisitions or strategic reactions could create risk and/or fail to yield the anticipated benefits. We regularly seek to expand our business opportunities through targeted acquisitions, research partnerships, joint ventures and licensing platforms. We face intense competition within our industry and otherwise for acquisitions of high-quality businesses, technologies and assets. As such, even if we are able to identify an acquisition target that we would like to acquire, we may not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are not able to consummate any of these inorganic growth opportunities on a reasonable time frame, on terms that are attractive to us or at all, we may not be able to grow our business in line with our expectations. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, acquisitions or other strategic transactions may increase our costs, including but not limited to accounting and legal fees, and may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies or of any technologies we may acquire. The integration of acquired companies or businesses may result in significant challenges, including, among others: successfully monetizing any acquired technology, in particular outside of our core licensing programs; integrating new employees, technology and/or products; consolidating research and development operations; minimizing the diversion of managements attention from ongoing business matters; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. As a result, we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In addition, we cannot be certain that the integration of acquired companies, businesses, technology and/or intellectual property with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits that we anticipate will be realized from such acquisitions. Our plans to integrate and/or expand upon research and development programs and technologies obtained through acquisitions may result in products or technologies that are not adopted by the market, or the market may adopt solutions competitive to our technologies. Our revenue may be affected by the deployment of future-generation wireless standards in place of 3G, 4G and 5G technologies or future-generation video standards, by the timing of such deployment, or by the need to extend or modify certain existing license agreements to cover subsequently issued patents. We own an evolving portfolio of issued and pending patents related to 3G, 4G and 5G cellular technologies and non-cellular technologies including video coding technologies, and our patent portfolio licensing program for future-generation wireless standards or video coding standards may not be as successful in generating licensing income as our current licensing programs. Although we continue to participate in worldwide standards bodies and contribute our intellectual property to future-generation wireless and video coding standards, including standards that will define 5G and beyond, our technologies might not be adopted by the relevant standards. In addition, we may not be as successful in the licensing of future-generation products as we have been in licensing products deploying existing wireless and video coding standards, or we may not achieve a level of royalty revenues on such products that is comparable to that which we have historically received on products deploying existing wireless and video coding standards. Furthermore, if there is a delay in the standardization and/or deployment of 5G or future video coding standards, our business and revenue could be negatively impacted. The licenses that we grant under our patent license agreements typically only cover products designed to operate in accordance with specified technologies and that were manufactured or deployed or anticipated to be manufactured or deployed at the time of entry into the agreement. Also, we have patent license agreements with licensees that now offer for sale types of products that were not sold by such licensees at the time the patent license agreements were entered into and, thus, are not licensed by us. We do not derive patent licensing revenue from the sale of products by our licensees that are not covered by a patent license agreement. In order to grant a patent license for any such products, we will need to extend or modify our patent license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees, and we may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to us or at all. Further, such extensions, modifications or new license agreements may adversely affect our revenue on the sale of products covered by the license prior to any extension, modification or new license. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for top talent is substantial. In order to be successful, we must attract, develop, and retain employees. Implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other technical talent, and these skills are in high demand among our competitors. The market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive, and competitors for talent, particularly engineering talent, have and could in the future attempt to hire our employees or employment candidates. Further, the increased availability of remote working arrangements has expanded the pool of companies that can compete for our employees and employment candidates. A number of such competitors for talent are significantly larger than us and may be able to offer compensation, benefits or work arrangements perceived as more desirable than what we are able to offer. If we are unable to recruit, retain, and motivate our employees, then we may not be able to innovate, execute on our strategy and grow our business as planned. Further, the cost and loss of efficiency related to turnover, particularly at senior levels, may be significant. 19 Table of Contents Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated. These attempts, which in some cases could be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. Advancements in technology, including artificial intelligence and machine learning, may continue to change the way bad actors seek to gain unauthorized access and disrupt systems, thereby increasing the risks of security breaches. Material security events could also require public disclosure, which could further harm our business or reputation. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but, in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. While we have not identified any material incidents of unauthorized access to date, the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business or personal information (whether through a breach of our own systems or the breach of a system of a third party that provides services to us) could harm our competitive or negotiating positions, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives, compromise our patent enforcement strategies or outlook, damage our reputation or otherwise adversely affect our business. In addition, to the extent that any future security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our employees, licensees, or customers confidential and /or personal information, we may incur liability or additional costs to remedy any damages caused by such breach. We face risks from doing business and maintaining offices in international markets. A significant portion of our licensees, potential licensees and customers are international, and our licensees, potential licensees and customers sell their products to markets throughout the world. In addition, in recent years, we have expanded, and we may continue to expand, our international operations, opening offices in China, France and Finland. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks and uncertainties of operating internationally. Our international operations could exacerbate the other risk factors we have identified, and we could be affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including, but not limited to: difficulty in protecting our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions; enforcing contractual commitments in foreign jurisdictions or against foreign corporations; government regulations, tariffs and other applicable trade barriers; biased enforcement of foreign laws and regulations to promote industrial or economic policies at our expense; retaliatory practices by foreign actors; currency control regulations; export license requirements and restrictions on the use of technology; social, economic and political instability; costly, time consuming and changing regulatory regimes; natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war; potentially adverse tax consequences; general delays in remittance of and difficulties collecting non-U.S. payments; foreign labor regulations; anti-corruption laws; public health issues; and difficulty in staffing and managing operations remotely. Managing operations and complying with relevant laws and regulations in China may be particularly complex, costly and time-consuming. We also are subject to risks specific to the individual countries in which we and our licensees, potential licensees and customers do business. In addition, adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: If the effective price of products sold by our licensees were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty revenues. Assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries may be subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported earnings. Certain of our operating and investing costs, such as foreign patent prosecution, are based in foreign currencies. If these costs are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, strengthening currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our near-term operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. In addition, continued strengthening of currency values in selected regions over an extended period of time could adversely affect our future operating expenses, investment costs and cash flows. Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations and expectations that could expose us to reputational risks and legal liability. There is significant focus from investors, customers and employees as well as other stakeholders concerning sustainability and governance matters. Current and prospective investors are utilizing this data to inform their decisions including investment and voting using a multitude of evolving score and rating frameworks. Additionally public interest and legislative pressure related to public companies' sustainability, governance and related practices continue to grow and evolve. We actively manage these issues and have established and publicly announced certain goals, commitments, and targets which we may refine or expand further in the future. These goals, commitments, and targets reflect our current plans and aspirations and are not guarantees that we will be able to achieve them. 20 Table of Contents Additionally, we are subject to various sustainability related reporting standards, which are rapidly evolving, and which have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased compliance costs and management attention. In particular, we are subject to both California and European Union reporting regimes on emissions and climate-related risks. Tracking and reporting the required metrics is costly and demands substantial attention. If our governance and reporting practices fail to meet the expectations of any of our stakeholders evolving standards, our reputation, brand and employee retention may be negatively impacted. If we do not adapt our strategy or execution quickly enough to meet the evolving expectations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, uncertainty and shifting market opportunities. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to define and keep pace with changes in industry standards, technological developments and varying customer requirements. Changes in industry standards and needs could adversely affect the development of, and demand for, our technology, rendering our technology currently under development obsolete and unmarketable. The patents and applications comprising our portfolio have fixed terms, and, if we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to these changes through the development or acquisition of new patentable inventions, patents or other technology, we could miss a critical market opportunity, reducing or eliminating our ability to capitalize on our patents, technology solutions or both. Our commercialization, licensing and/or M&A activities could lead to patent exhaustion or implied license issues that could materially adversely affect our business. The legal doctrines of patent exhaustion and implied license may be subject to different judicial interpretations. Our commercialization or licensing of certain technologies and/or our M&A activities could potentially lead to patent exhaustion or implied license issues that could adversely affect our patent licensing program(s) and limit our ability to derive licensing revenue from certain patents under such program(s), whether through the assumption of license agreements that would result in our patents being captured by such agreements, the acquisition of a business that sells or licenses products that practice our patents, or otherwise. In the event of successful challenges by current or prospective licensees based on these doctrines that result in a material decrease to our patent licensing revenue, our financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our use of open source software could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Certain of our technology and our suppliers technology may contain or may be derived from open source software, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a products source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. Licensing of such technology may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. For example, these obligations may require us to make source code for derivative works available or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different from what we customarily use to license our technology. While we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employ adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that, if we inappropriately use open source software, we may be required to re-engineer our technology, discontinue the sale of our technology, release the source code of our proprietary technology to the public at no cost or take other remedial actions, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. There is a risk that open source licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. We are a U.S. multinational company subject to complex and changing tax laws in the United States and foreign jurisdictions where we do business. Significant judgement is required in determining our worldwide provision of income taxes. As a U.S. multinational company, we are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities, and we have ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Any of these examinations could result in challenges to various positions we assert in our filings and could impact our tax liability, both for future and past tax years. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related legal proceedings could materially differ from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. In such case, our income tax provision, results of operations and cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. 21 Table of Contents Our tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors beyond our control, including changes in tax laws, regulations, interpretations, tax rates, assessments and any related tax, interest or penalties. If we are deemed to owe additional taxes, it could negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, most of our income is taxable in the United States with a significant portion qualifying for preferential treatment as foreign-derived intangible income ("FDII"). Beginning in 2026, the effective tax rate for FDII increases from 13% to 16%. Further, if U.S. tax rates increase and/or the FDII deduction is eliminated or reduced, our provision for income taxes, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. In France, where we have substantial operations, we benefit from research tax credits applicable to French technology companies, including the Crdit Impt Recherche (CIR). While we have historically benefited from the CIR, the French government has recently challenged our eligibility for portions of the CIR that they previously accepted. We believe our estimates are reasonable and consistent with the regulation, but if this challenge is successful and our eligibility for the CIR is reduced, it could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. The French government could also eliminate or reduce the CIR entirely, which could harm our business. Additionally, any new tax legislation, or any new guidance or interpretations of the same, could expose us to additional tax liabilities. For example, the OECD Model Rules under Pillar Two introduced a minimum corporate tax rate of 15% on multinational enterprises with annual consolidated revenue exceeding 750 million in at least two of the prior four years. Although this minimum tax has been adopted by various jurisdictions where we do business, including France and the UK, we are not yet subject to the minimum tax based on our revenues. If we become subject to the Pillar Two minimum tax, our business, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Market projections and data are forward-looking in nature. Our strategy is based on our own projections and on analyst, industry observer and expert projections, which are forward-looking in nature and are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. We utilize these projections in various ways, including key strategic decisions that we regularly make regarding the direction of our business, research and licensing efforts. The validity of their and our assumptions, the timing and scope of wirelessmarkets, economic conditions, customer buying patterns, timeliness of equipment development, pricing of products, growth in wireless telecommunications services that would be delivered on wireless devices and availability of capital for infrastructure improvements could affect these predictions. Projections on the size of various markets may be inaccurate. In addition, market data upon which we rely is based on third party reports that may be inaccurate. The inaccuracy of any of these projections and/or market data could adversely affect our business prospects, operating results and financial condition. Our strategic decisions about our patent portfolio involve risks, and the anticipated benefits of such actions may not be realized. From time to time, we make strategic decisions about our patent portfolio, whether through a formal portfolio review or opportunistic dispositions. Cost savings expectations of any portfolio review are inherently uncertain and, therefore, we cannot provide assurance that we will achieve any expected, or any actual cost savings from any such action. Our portfolio review activities may place substantial demands on our management, which could lead to the diversion of managements attention from other business priorities. We have divested a number of assets, including as part of a recent strategic portfolio rationalization review. Any assets that we divest could turn out to be more valuable than we had anticipated and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any strategic decision about our patent portfolio. Due to cost constraints, we also regularly undertake strategic decisions in respect of where and how we file for patents. These decisions could later prove to be incorrect, which could ultimately harm our licensing potential or enforcement options, which could in turn harm our financial results and business prospects. Our technology development activities may experience delays. We may experience technical, financial, resource or other difficulties or delays related to the further development of our technologies. Delays may have adverse financial effects and may allow competitors with comparable technology offerings to gain an advantage over us in the marketplace or in the standards setting arena. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have adequate staffing or that our development efforts will ultimately be successful. Moreover, certain of our technologies have not been tested for commercial use, and it is possible that they may not perform as expected. In such cases, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected, and our ability to secure new licensees and other business opportunities could be diminished. 22 Table of Contents Our business is subject to a variety of domestic and international laws, rules and policies and other obligations regarding data protection. We may be affected by existing and proposed laws and regulations, as well as government policies and practices related to cybersecurity, privacy and data protection. For example, the European General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR"), the United Kingdoms GDPR, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 and the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 impose obligations on companies such as ours regarding the handling of personal data. Additionally, in 2021, China adopted the Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL), which, together Chinas existing cyber and data securities regulations, have required and will continue to require significant investment and resources to ensure compliance. Complying with the these and other privacy and cybersecurity regulations could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. If we cannot implement an effective compliance mechanism for cross-border privacy and security matters, we may face increased exposure to regulatory actions, substantial fines and other penalties. Further, these areas are quickly changing, becoming increasingly stringent, and creating regulatory uncertainty. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and our Convertible Notes Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict. In particular, the timing of revenue recognition may cause our revenues and earnings to fluctuate, and there is significant judgment in the application of our revenue recognition principles. For example, accounting principles sometimes require us to recognize revenue before the actual amount is certain, which could add to uncertainty in our revenue guidance. The variability and unpredictability of our results of operations or other operating metrics could result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of industry or financial analysts. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our common stock could fall substantially. Our stock repurchase program may not result in a positive return of capital to shareholders. Our stock repurchase program may not return value to shareholders as it was designed to do because the market price of the stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Stock repurchase programs are intended to deliver shareholder value over the long term, but stock price fluctuations can reduce the effectiveness of such programs. In addition, our Board of Directors could choose to suspend or terminate the stock repurchase program at any time or not to renew the program. Our shareholders may not receive the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or any dividend at all, and any decrease in or suspension of the dividend could cause our stock price to decline. Our dividend policy contemplates the payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.60 per share on our outstanding common stock. We expect to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock at the rate set forth in our current dividend policy. However, the dividend policy and the payment and timing of future cash dividends under the policy are subject to the final determination each quarter by our Board of Directors that (i) the dividend will be made in compliance with laws applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends, including Section 1551(b) of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law, and (ii) the policy remains in our best interests, which determination will be based on a number of factors, including our earnings, financial condition, capital resources and capital requirements, alternative uses of capital, restrictions imposed by any existing debt, economic conditions and other factors considered relevant by the Board of Directors. Given these considerations, our Board of Directors may increase or decrease the amount of the dividend at any time and may also decide to vary the timing of or suspend or discontinue the payment of dividends in the future. Any decrease in the amount of the dividend, or suspension or discontinuance of payment of a dividend, could cause our stock price to decline. Securities analyst coverage or lack of coverage may have a negative impact on our common stocks market price. The trading market for our common stock will depend, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If securities or industry analysts stop their coverage of us or additional securities and industry analysts fail to cover us in the future, the trading price for our common stock would be negatively impacted. If any analyst or analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock, changes their opinion of our shares or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. If any analyst or analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease and we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. 23 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under such indebtedness. Our total indebtedness as of December 31, 2024 was approximately $477 million. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the 2027 Notes. The convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the offering of the 2027 Notes may affect the value of the such notes, and the market price of our common stock. In connection with the 2027 Notes issuance, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions (the option counterparties) and sold warrants to the respective option counterparties. These transactions will be accounted for as an adjustment to our shareholders equity. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected to reduce the potential equity dilution upon any conversion of the notes. The warrants will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. In addition, the respective option counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may modify their respective hedge positions from time to time (including during any observation period related to a conversion of the notes) by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or by purchasing or selling our common stock in open market transactions and/or privately negotiated transactions. The potential effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. The respective option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that such option counterparties may default under the respective convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties is not secured by any collateral. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the applicable convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in our common stock market price and in volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurance as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties. Provisions of the 2027 Notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the 2027 Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change under the indenture, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their applicable notes or any portion of the principal amount of the notes at a price of 100% of the principal amount of the notes being repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We may also be required to issue additional shares upon conversion in the event of certain fundamental change transactions. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 24 Table of Contents Item 1C. CYBERSECURITY. We take a defense-in-depth approach, leveraging multiple, layered security measures, to protect our data, our customers data, our infrastructure, and our employees. We embed data protection throughout our operations and information technology programs, relying on multiple and various controls to prevent and detect threats, with the goal of safeguarding our assets, data and personnel. InterDigital evaluates cybersecurity risks as part of our overall enterprise risk management. A cybersecurity steering committee of senior executives is responsible for assessing and managing cybersecurity risks. The steering committee meets annually to evaluate any changes to the Companys exposure to cybersecurity risks, discuss potential mitigation plans and provide updates on mitigation efforts already underway. The steering committee is led by the Director of Cybersecurity & Networks, a cybersecurity professional with 20 years of experience and industry-recognized certifications. The Director of Cybersecurity & Networks reports directly to the Chief Information Officer ("CIO") and manages our cybersecurity team, which uses multiple internal and external sources to keep up to date on the latest threats and risks and manages a process to evaluate cybersecurity risks associated with third-party service providers. Our cybersecurity team also maintains a comprehensive set of cybersecurity policies and standards. We continually reassess and review our cybersecurity strategy and policies, including through tabletop exercises, to identify and proactively address the constant changes in the global threat landscape. We also engage external vendors to assess the cybersecurity program as needed, including annual multi-stage penetration testing of our IT environment by independent third parties. The Audit Committee of our Board oversees risk from cybersecurity threats. The Audit Committee of the Board and the full Board each receive quarterly updates on cybersecurity risks identified through the enterprise risk management processes described above. The comprehensive set of cybersecurity policies and standards maintained by the cybersecurity team includes a security incident response framework. The framework is a set of coordinated procedures and tasks that the InterDigital incident response team executes to ensure timely and accurate reporting and resolution of computer security incidents. The framework details who, how and when appropriate persons or committees, including the CIO, cybersecurity steering committee, and Audit Committee are kept informed on the status of potential cybersecurity incidents. The CIO also presents a summary of recent incidents at each regular Audit Committee meeting. Notwithstanding the extensive approach we take to cybersecurity, we may not be successful in preventing or mitigating a cybersecurity incident that could have a material adverse effect on us. However, to date, cybersecurity threats have not materially affected us, including our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. We identify nation state-sponsored threat actors and the rise in sophistication and proliferation of criminal cyber threat actors and ransomware campaigns as top reasonable material risks to the business. The theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business or personal information (whether through a breach of our own systems or the breach of a system of a third party that provides services to us) could harm our competitive or negotiating positions, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives, compromise our patent enforcement strategies or outlook, damage our reputation or otherwise adversely affect our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of cybersecurity risks. 25 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES. Our headquarters are located in Wilmington, Delaware, USA. Our research and development activities are conducted primarily in facilities located in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, USA; London, United Kingdom; Montreal, Canada; New York, New York, USA; Los Altos, California, USA; and Rennes, France. The following table sets forth information with respect to our principal leased properties: Location Approximate Square Feet Principal Use Lease Expiration Date Wilmington, Delaware 7,190 Corporate headquarters November 2025 Rennes, France 33,000 Office and research space August 2031 Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 30,300 Office and research space September 2029 New York, New York 19,400 Office and research space July 2030 Montreal, Quebec 11,918 Office and research space June 2026 Los Altos, California 4,900 Office and research space November 2027 London, United Kingdom 3,700 Office and research space February 2031 We are also a party to leases for several smaller research and/or office spaces, including in Brussels, Belgium; Espoo, Finland; Indianapolis, Indiana, USA; Melville, New York, USA; Paris, France, and Beijing, China. In addition, we own an administrative office space in Washington, District of Columbia, USA. We believe that the facilities described above are suitable and adequate for our present purposes and our needs in the near future. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. See Note 12, Litigation and Legal Proceedings, to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included below in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a description of our material legal proceedings, which is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. Not applicable. 26 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Market Information The Nasdaq Global Select Market (Nasdaq) is the principal market for our common stock, which is traded under the symbol "IDCC." Holders As of February 4, 2025, there were 389 holders of record of our common stock. Dividends Cash dividends on outstanding common stock declared in 2024 and 2023 were as follows (in thousands, except per share data): 2024 Per Share Total Cumulative by Fiscal Year First quarter $ 0.40 $ 10,155 $ 10,155 Second quarter 0.40 10,052 20,207 Third quarter 0.45 11,366 31,573 Fourth quarter 0.45 11,557 43,130 $ 1.70 $ 43,130 2023 First quarter $ 0.35 $ 9,449 $ 9,449 Second quarter 0.35 9,273 18,722 Third quarter 0.40 10,348 29,070 Fourth quarter 0.40 10,226 39,296 $ 1.50 $ 39,296 We increased the quarterly cash dividend by $0.05 per share in both 2023 and 2024 to raise the dividend payable from $0.35 to $0.45 per share. In February 2025, we announced an additional increase in the quarterly cash dividend by $0.15 per share, beginning with the quarterly dividend payable in second quarter 2025. We currently expect to continue to pay dividends in accordance with our dividend policy; however, continued payment of cash dividends and changes in the Company's dividend policy will depend on the Company's earnings, financial condition, capital resources and capital requirements, alternative uses of capital, restrictions imposed by any existing debt, economic conditions and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. 27 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph compares five-year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the Nasdaq Telecommunications index and the Russell 2000 index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from 12/31/2019 to 12/31/2024. 12/19 12/20 12/21 12/22 12/23 12/24 InterDigital, Inc. 100.00 114.30 137.72 97.43 217.89 394.45 Russell 2000 100.00 119.96 137.74 109.59 128.14 142.93 Nasdaq Telecommunications 100.00 110.08 112.44 82.21 90.96 103.21 The above performance graph shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or incorporated by reference into any filing of InterDigital under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. 28 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Repurchase of Common Stock The following table provides information regarding Company purchases of its common stock during fourth quarter 2024. Period Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share (or Unit) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchases as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (2) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units) That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (3) October 1, 2024 - October 31, 2024 $ $ 229,532,849 November 1, 2024 - November 30, 2024 $ $ 229,532,849 December 1, 2024 - December 31, 2024 $ $ 229,532,849 Total $ (1) Total number of shares purchased during each period reflects share purchase transactions that were completed (i.e., settled) during the period indicated. (2) Shares were purchased pursuant to the Companys share repurchase program (the Share Repurchase Program), $300 million of which was authorized by the Companys Board of Directors in June 2014, with an additional $100 million authorized by the Companys Board of Directors in each of June 2015, September 2017, December 2018, May 2019, and May 2022, respectively, an additional $333 million in December 2022, and an additional $235 million in December 2023. The Share Repurchase Program has no expiration date. (3) Amounts shown in this column reflect the amounts remaining under the Share Repurchase Program at the end of the period. Item 6. [RESERVED] Item 7.MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OVERVIEW The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto contained in this Form 10-K. The following section generally discusses our financial condition and results of operations for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 compared to our fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for December 31, 2023 compared to our fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 can be found in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2023, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on February 15, 2024. Throughout the following discussion and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we refer to recurring revenues and catch-up revenues. For variable and dynamic fixed-fee license agreements, catch-up revenues primarily represents revenue associated with reporting periods prior to the execution of the license agreement, while recurring revenue represents revenue associated with reporting periods beginning with the execution of the license agreement. For static fixed-fee license agreements, we typically classify the associated revenue as catch-up revenues. 29 Table of Contents Business InterDigital, Inc. ("InterDigital") is a global research and development company focused primarily on wireless, video, artificial intelligence ("AI"), and related technologies. We design and develop foundational technologies that enable connected, immersive experiences in a broad range of communications and entertainment products and services. We license our innovations worldwide to companies providing such products and services, including makers of wireless communications devices, consumer electronics, internet of things ("IoT") devices, cars and other motor vehicles and providers of cloud-based services such as video streaming. As a leader in wireless technology, our engineers have designed and developed a wide range of innovations that are used in wireless products and networks, from the earliest digital cellular systems to 5G and today's most advanced Wi-Fi technologies. We are also a leader in video processing and video encoding/decoding technology used in video-enabled products and services. Our AI research effort is focused on the intersection of AI with both wireless and video technologies. InterDigital is one of the largest pure research and development and licensing companies in the world, with one of the most significant patent portfolios of fundamental wireless and video technologies. As of December 31, 2024, InterDigital's wholly owned subsidiaries held a portfolio of more than 33,000 patents and patent applications related to wireless communications, video coding, display technology, and other areas relevant to communications and entertainment products and services. Our portfolio includes numerous patents and patent applications that we believe are or may be essential to existing standards, or may become essential to future standards, established by many Standards Development Organizations ("SDOs"). We have contributed technology to wireless standards including the 3G, 4G, and 5G cellular standards and the IEEE 802 suite of standards. We have contributed technology to video standards including standards established by ISO/IEC Moving Picture Expert Group (MPEG), the ITU-T Video Coding Expert Group (VCEG), the Joint Collaborative Team on Video Coding (JCT-VC) and the Joint Video Expert Team (JVET), among others. Our wireless portfolio has largely been built through internal investment in a world-class research team, supplemented by joint development projects with other companies, and select acquisitions of patents and companies. Our video technology portfolio combines patents and applications that InterDigital obtained through the acquisitions of the research and innovation unit and patent licensing business of visual technology industry leader Technicolor SA and patents and applications created by internal development. Our patented inventions have been implemented in a wide variety of products, including smartphones, tablets, base stations, televisions, laptops, gaming consoles, set-top boxes, streaming devices, connected automobiles, and other consumer electronics and IoT products. Our patented inventions have also been implemented in a wide variety of services, such as video streaming, user generated content sharing, video conferencing, video gaming, and other cloud-based services. Revenue In 2024 and 2023, our total revenues were $868.5 million and $549.6 million, respectively. Our recurring revenues were $408.4 million in both 2024 and 2023. In 2024 and 2023, we recognized $460.1 million and $141.2 million, respectively, of catch-up revenues as more fully discussed below. In 2024, fixed-fee royalties accounted for 89% of our recurring revenues. These fixed-fee revenues are not affected by the related licensees success in the market or the general economic climate. The majority of the remaining portion of our recurring revenue was variable in nature due to the per-unit structure of the related license agreements. The Company considers Smartphone and CE, Auto/IoT as the groupings that best reflect the Company's core licensing programs. The Smartphone revenue grouping consists primarily of smartphones and also includes other wireless communication devices and infrastructure equipment, such as tablets, and base stations. The CE, IoT/Auto revenue grouping consists of consumer electronics and IoT products, such as televisions, laptops, gaming consoles, set-top boxes, streaming devices, and connected automobiles. New Agreements During 2024, we entered into fourteen patent license agreements as discussed below. Direct Licenses In January 2024, we signed a patent license agreement with Samsung Electronics (the "Samsung TV agreement"). The agreement licenses Samsungs digital TVs and computer display monitors under InterDigital's joint licensing program with Sony and includes licenses to key technologies including ATSC 3.0, as well as licenses under InterDigitals patents including HEVC, VVC and Wi-Fi. In June 2024, we signed a new device license agreement with Google. The agreement licenses a range of devices including Pixel smartphones, Fitbit wearables, and other consumer electronics devices to InterDigitals cellular wireless, Wi-Fi, and HEVC video patented technologies. 30 Table of Contents In October 2024, we entered into a patent license agreement with OPPO. The agreement covers OPPO, realme and OnePlus branded mobile devices worldwide. As part of the agreement, both parties agreed to dismiss all pending litigations between us. In October 2024, we entered into an arbitration agreement with Lenovo to determine the terms of a new patent license. As part of the agreement to arbitrate, both parties agreed to dismiss all pending litigations between us. Additionally, we entered into licenses covering our technologies with Arcelik, Blu, Ericsson, Kyocera, Panasonic, Teltronic, TPV, and ZTE. Expiration of License Agreements Our patent license agreements with five licensees that expired between January 1, 2024 and December 31, 2024 have not yet been renewed. These patent license agreements contributed $17.2 million of recurring revenues in 2024. Seven of our revenue generating patent license agreements are scheduled to expire at the end of 2025, including the Samsung TV agreement and the agreement with Xiaomi. Collectively, these expiring agreements not yet renewed accounted for $91.8 million, or approximately 22%, of recurring revenues in 2024. We are actively working to renew these agreements on terms consistent with the licensees' respective market positions and utilization of our technology. Notes, Hedge, and Warrant Transactions Refer to Note 10, "Obligations" within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for definitions of capitalized terms used below. 2024 Notes and Related Note Hedge and Warrant Transactions On June 1, 2024, the 2024 Notes matured and we repaid $126.2 million in aggregate principal in cash and issued 0.3 million common shares to settle the remaining obligation. This issuance was effectively offset by our receipt of 0.3 million shares from the settlement of the 2024 Note Hedge Transactions. Additionally, the 2024 Warrant Transactions settled, on a net-share basis during September through December 2024 resulting in the issuance of 0.5 million shares. 2027 Notes and Related Note Hedge and Warrant Transactions During 2024, the 2027 Notes had a dilutive impact of 2.2 million shares, which are offset from an economic standpoint by the 2027 Note Hedge Transactions and would result in no incremental shares being issued upon conversion. However, under GAAP, we are required to exclude the impact of the shares received from the 2027 Note Hedge Transactions counterparties from the calculation of weighted average diluted shares outstanding. As of December 31, 2024, 5.9 million warrants remain outstanding related to the 2027 Warrant Transactions at a weighted average strike price of $106.22 per share, subject to adjustment, which mature on a net-share basis beginning September 2027 through April 2028. Assuming a share price of $175, we would issue 2.3 million of common shares related to the 2027 Warrant Transactions. Refer to "Financial Position, Liquidity, and Capital Resources Convertible Notes" for further information regarding how changes in our stock price would affect the number of shares issuable related to the 2027 Warrant Transactions. Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement If we believe a party is required to license our patents in order to manufacture, use and/or sell certain products or services and such party refuses to do so, we typically offer such party to have royalties, or other terms, set by third party adjudicators (such as arbitrators). If the party refuses that offer and we believe they are unwilling to agree to a patent license on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis, we may have no other viable recourse but to institute legal action against them to enforce our patent rights. This legal action has typically taken the form of a patent infringement lawsuit or an administrative proceeding. In addition, we and our licensees, in the normal course of business, might seek to resolve disagreements as to the rights and obligations of the parties under the applicable license agreement through arbitration or litigation. Such legal actions ultimately may be decided by the presiding court, third party adjudicator, or a negotiated resolution between the parties. 31 Table of Contents We initiated litigation against Lenovo and OPPO to enforce our intellectual patent rights in 2019 and 2021, respectively. Through these patent infringement actions, we successfully negotiated resolutions that resulted in patent license agreements being reached with OPPO in 2024 and Lenovo, with respect to our HEVC patents only, in 2023. Additionally, in 2024 we entered into an arbitration agreement with Lenovo to determine the terms of a new patent license for our cellular and other technologies. As part of these agreements, we and both third parties agreed to dismiss all pending litigations between us, and accordingly all litigations with Lenovo and OPPO have been dismissed as of fourth quarter 2024. Currently, our open enforcement actions include the arbitration proceedings with Lenovo and Samsung. The Samsung proceeding resulted from the arbitration agreement reached with Samsung Electronics, in which we agreed to binding arbitration to establish the royalties to be paid by Samsung for a worldwide license to certain of our patents. We expect a decision in early 2025. The Lenovo arbitration is in its early stages, and no schedule has been set yet. These matters are more fully discussed in Note 12, Litigation and Legal Proceedings, to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included below in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. In 2024, our intellectual property enforcement costs increased to $56.2 million, from $48.8 million in 2023. These costs represented 33% of our total licensing costs of $169.2 million in 2024. Intellectual property enforcement costs will vary depending upon activity levels, and it is likely they will continue to be a significant expense for us in the future. Cash and Short-Term Investments As of December 31, 2024, we had $982.4 million of cash, restricted cash, and short-term investments and an additional $1.4 billion of cash payments due under contracted fixed price agreements, which includes our conservative estimates of the minimum cash receipts that we expect to receive under the Samsung and Lenovo arbitrations. 89% of our recurring revenue comes from fixed-fee royalties. Such agreements often have prescribed payment schedules that are uneven and sometimes front-loaded, resulting in timing differences between when we collect the cash payments and recognize the related revenue. The following table reconciles the timing differences between cash receipts and recognized revenue on a quarterly basis for each of the last two years, including the resulting operating cash flow (in thousands): 2024 Cash vs. Non-cash revenue: Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Fixed fee cash receipts (a) $ 190,985 $ 33,705 $ 160,300 $ 240,945 $ 625,935 Other cash receipts (b) 10,773 14,583 9,919 12,700 47,975 Decrease (increase) in deferred revenue 27,542 26,866 (50,495) 20,422 24,335 Increase (decrease) in receivables 28,337 78,011 (11,220) (24,118) 71,010 Other 5,905 70,328 20,175 2,853 99,261 Total Revenue $ 263,542 $ 223,493 $ 128,679 $ 252,802 $ 868,516 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 50,773 $ (48,910) $ 77,631 $ 192,034 $ 271,528 2023 Cash vs. Non-cash revenue: Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Fixed fee cash receipts (a) $ 26,953 $ 9,406 $ 368,608 $ 30,185 $ 435,152 Other cash receipts (b) 22,017 11,087 3,956 19,792 56,852 Decrease (increase) in deferred revenue 42,766 38,641 (77,474) 45,243 49,176 Increase (decrease) in receivables 90,856 92,756 (167,222) 47,720 64,110 Other 19,781 (50,299) 12,238 (37,422) (55,702) Total Revenue $ 202,373 $ 101,591 $ 140,106 $ 105,518 $ 549,588 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (27,852) $ (45,440) $ 310,610 $ (23,585) $ 213,733 (a) Fixed fee cash receipts are comprised of cash receipts from Dynamic Fixed-Fee Agreement royalties, including the associated catch-up revenues. (b) Other cash receipts are primarily comprised of cash receipts related to our variable patent royalty revenue and catch-up revenues. 32 Table of Contents When we collect payments on a front-loaded basis, we recognize a deferred revenue liability equal to the cash received and accounts receivable recorded which relate to revenue expected to be recognized in future periods. That liability is then reduced as we recognize revenue over the balance of the agreement. The following table shows the projected amortization of our current and long term deferred revenue as of December 31, 2024 (in thousands): Deferred Revenue 2025 $ 178,009 2026 139,017 2027 39,486 2028 1,141 2029 1,206 Thereafter 1,269 Total $ 360,128 Return of Capital In June 2014, our Board of Directors authorized a $300 million share repurchase program (the Share Repurchase Program). Subsequently our Board of Directors authorized five $100 million increases to the program, an additional $333 million in December 2022, and an additional $235 million in December 2023, bringing the total amount of the Share Repurchase Program to nearly $1.4 billion. Since 2014, we have repurchased $1.1 billion of shares at an average price of $63.27, adjusted for dividends. This amount includes the $199.9 million, excluding fees, expenses and excise tax, repurchased as part of the modified Dutch auction tender offer in 2023. As of December 31, 2024, there was $229.5 million remaining under the Share Repurchase Program authorization. Since January 2014, we have paid $437.5 million in dividends, bringing our total return of capital over this period to nearly $1.6 billion. The table below sets forth the total number of shares repurchased and the dollar value of shares repurchased under the Share Repurchase Program, cash dividends on outstanding common stock declared, and the total capital returned to our shareholders (in thousands): Share Repurchase Program Cash Dividends Declared Total Capital Returned to Shareholders # of Shares Value Per Share Value 2024 644 $ 66,726 $ 1.70 $ 43,130 $ 109,856 2023 4,411 339,704 1.50 39,296 379,000 2022 1,224 74,445 1.40 41,949 116,394 2021 458 30,000 1.40 43,041 73,041 2020 6 349 1.40 43,111 43,460 2019 2,962 196,269 1.40 43,718 239,987 2018 1,478 110,505 1.40 47,922 158,427 2017 107 7,693 1.30 45,122 52,815 2016 1,304 64,685 1.00 34,359 99,044 2015 1,836 96,410 0.80 28,726 125,136 2014 3,554 152,625 0.70 27,153 179,778 Total 17,984 $ 1,139,411 $ 14.00 $ 437,527 $ 1,576,938 Impact of Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Factors We have been actively monitoring the impact of the current macroeconomic environment in the U.S. and globally characterized by inflation, supply chain issues, high interest rates, labor shortages, and the potential for a recession. These market factors, as well as the impacts of the Ukraine-Russia and Middle East conflicts, have not had a material impact on our business to date. However, if these conditions continue or worsen, they could have an adverse effect on our operating results and our financial condition. 33 Table of Contents Comparability of Financial Results When comparing our 2024 financial results against the financial results of other periods, the following items should be taken into consideration: Revenue Our 2024 revenue includes $460.1 million of catch-up revenues primarily resulting from the Samsung TV and OPPO agreements entered into in 2024, as well as revenue recognized on the Lenovo cellular license resulting from the UK proceedings and arbitration agreement. Operating Expenses In 2024, we incurred $68.8 million of nonrecurring revenue share costs associated with the catch-up revenues recognized in the period. In 2024, we recorded $4.4 million of one-time contra expenses for a net litigation fee reimbursement resulting from intellectual property enforcement successes. In 2024, we incurred $1.0 million of nonrecurring share-based compensation costs driven by licensing successes. Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net In 2024, we recognized $2.0 million of net gains resulting from observable price changes of our long-term strategic investments, which was included within Other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of income. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are based on the selection and application of GAAP, which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in both our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results could differ from these estimates and any such differences may be material to the financial statements. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Guidance" within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We believe the accounting policies that are of particular importance to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and that may involve a higher degree of complexity and judgment in their application compared to others are those relating to revenue recognition, compensation, and income taxes. If different assumptions were made or different conditions existed, our financial results could have been materially different. Revenue Recognition We derive the vast majority of our revenue from patent licensing. The timing and amount of revenue recognized from each licensee depend upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each agreement and the nature of the deliverables and obligations. Such agreements are often complex and include multiple performance obligations. These agreements can include, without limitation, performance obligations related to the settlement of past patent infringement liabilities, patent and/or know-how licensing royalties on covered products sold by licensees, access to a portfolio of technology as it exists at a point in time, and access to a portfolio of technology at a point in time along with promises to provide any technology updates to the portfolio during the term. In accordance with GAAP, we use a five-step model to achieve the core underlying principle that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. These steps include (1) identifying the contract with the customer, (2) identifying the performance obligations, (3) determining the transaction price, (4) allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations, and (5) recognizing revenue as the entity satisfies the performance obligation(s). Additionally, we have elected to utilize certain practical expedients in the application of ASC 606. In evaluating the presence of a significant financing component in our agreements, we utilize the practical expedient to exclude any contracts wherein the gap between payment by our customers and the delivery of our performance obligation is less than one year. We have also elected to utilize the practical expedient related to costs of obtaining a contract where an entity may recognize the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset that the entity otherwise would have recognized is one year or less. Timing of revenue recognition may differ significantly from the timing of invoicing to customers. Contract assets are included in accounts receivable and represent unbilled amounts expected to be received from customers in future periods, where the revenue recognized to date exceeds the amount billed, and right to payment is subject to the underlying contractual terms. Contract assets are classified as long-term assets if the payments are expected to be received more than one year from the reporting date. Contract assets due within less than twelve months of the balance sheet date are included within accounts receivable in our consolidated balance sheets. Contract assets due more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are included within other non-current assets. 34 Table of Contents For certain patent license agreements or other contractual arrangements, the amount of consideration that we will receive is uncertain. In such cases, we estimate and recognize licensing revenues only when we have a contract, as defined in the revenue recognition guidance. Such estimates are only recognized to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenues recognized will not occur. We analyze the risk of a significant revenue reversal considering both the likelihood and magnitude of the reversal and, if necessary, constrain the amount of estimated revenues in order to mitigate this risk, which may result in recognizing revenues less than amounts we expect we are most likely to receive. These aforementioned estimates may require significant judgment. Patent License Agreements Upon signing a patent license agreement, we provide the licensee permission to use our patented inventions in specific applications. We account for patent license agreements in accordance with the guidance indicated above. Certain patent license agreements contain revenue from non-financial sources in the form of patents received from the customer. Under our patent license agreements, we typically receive one or a combination of the following forms of payment as consideration for permitting our licensees to use our patented inventions in their applications and products. Consideration for Past Patent Royalties Consideration related to a licensees product sales from prior periods may result from a negotiated agreement with a licensee that utilized our patented inventions prior to signing a patent license agreement with us or from the resolution of a disagreement or arbitration with a licensee over the specific terms of an existing license agreement. We may also receive consideration for past patent royalties in connection with the settlement of patent litigation where there was no prior patent license agreement. In each of these cases, we record the consideration as revenue as prescribed by the five-step model. Fixed-Fee Agreements Fixed-fee license agreements include fixed, non-refundable royalty payments that fulfill the licensees obligations to us under a patent license agreement for a specified time period or for the term of the agreement for specified products, under certain patents or patent claims, for sales in certain countries, or a combination thereof - in each case for a specified time period (including for the life of the patents licensed under the agreement). Dynamic fixed-fee license agreements contain a single performance obligation that represents ongoing access to a portfolio of technology over the license term, since our promise to transfer to the licensee access to the portfolio as it exists at inception of the license, along with promises to provide any technology updates to the portfolio during the term, are not separately identifiable. Upon entering a new agreement, we allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations delivered at signing (e.g. our existing patent portfolio) and future performance obligations (e.g. the technology updates). We use a time-based input method of progress to determine the timing of revenue recognition, and as such we recognize the future deliverables on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement. We utilize the straight-line method as we believe that it best depicts efforts expended to develop and transfer updates to the customer evenly throughout the term of the agreement. Static fixed-fee license agreements are fixed-price contracts that generally do not include updates to technology we create after the inception of the license agreement or in which the customer does not stand to substantively benefit from those updates during the term. Although we have few static fixed-fee license agreements, we generally satisfy our performance obligations under such agreements at contract signing, and, as such, revenue is recognized at that time. Variable Agreements Upon entering a new variable patent license agreement, the licensee typically agrees to pay royalties or license fees on licensed products sold during the term of the agreement. We utilize the sales- or usage- based royalty exception for these agreements and recognize revenues during the contract term when the underlying sale or usage occurs. Our licensees under variable agreements provide us with quarterly royalty reports that summarize their sales of covered products and their related royalty obligations to us. We typically receive these royalty reports subsequent to the period in which our licensees underlying sales occurred. As a result, we are required to estimate revenues and recognize sales-based royalties on such licensed products in the period in which the associated sales occur, considering all relevant information (historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available to us. Estimating licensees quarterly royalties prior to receiving the royalty reports requires us to make assumptions and judgments related to forecasted trends and growth rates used to estimate our licensees sales, which could have an impact on the amount of revenue we report on a quarterly basis. As a result of recognizing revenues in the period in which the licensees sales occur using estimates, adjustments to revenues are required in subsequent periods to reflect changes in estimates as new information becomes available, primarily resulting from actual amounts reported by our licensees. 35 Table of Contents Agreements with Multiple Performance Obligations During 2024, we signed new fixed-fee agreements that had multiple performance obligations. Consistent with the revenue recognition policies disclosed above, we (1) identified the contract with the customer, (2) identified the performance obligations, (3) determined the transaction price, (4) allocated the transaction price to the performance obligations, and (5) recognized revenue as we satisfy the performance obligations. We allocated the transaction price to each performance obligation for accounting purposes using our best estimate of the term and value. The process for determining the value of the standalone selling prices of identified performance obligations in dynamic fixed-fee license agreements requires the exercise of significant judgment when evaluating the valuation methods and assumptions, including the assumed royalties, projected sales volumes, discount rate, identification of comparable market transactions which are not directly observable and other relevant factors. Changes in any of a number of these assumptions could have had a substantial impact on the relative fair value assigned to each performance obligation for accounting purposes. These inputs and assumptions represent management's best estimates at the time of the transaction. The impact that a five percent change in the aggregate amount allocated to catch-up revenues under these agreements would have had on 2024 revenue is summarized in the following table (in thousands): Change in amount allocated Allocation to catch-up revenues +5% -%5 Change in revenue $ 8,733 $ (8,733) Revenue from Non-financial Sources During 2024, 2023, and 2022, approximately 2%, 3% and 4%, respectively, of our total revenue was based on the estimated fair value of non-financial consideration received, principally patents. The process for determining the value of revenue from non-financial sources requires estimating the fair value of patents received. We estimated the fair value of the patents in the above transactions using one of, or a combination of, an analysis of comparable market transactions (the market approach), a discounted cash flow analysis (the income approach) and/or by quantifying the amount of money required to replace the future service capability of the assets (the cost approach). For the market approach, judgment was applied as to which market transactions were most comparable to the transaction. For the income approach, the inputs and assumptions used to develop these estimates were based on a market participant perspective and included estimates of projected royalties, discount rates, economic lives and income tax rates, among others. For the cost approach, we utilized the historical cost of assets of similar technologies to determine the estimated replacement cost, including research, development, testing and patent application fees. The development of a number of these inputs and assumptions requires a significant amount of management judgment and is based upon a number of factors, including identification of comparable market transactions, assumed royalties, projected sales volumes, economic lives of the patents and other relevant factors. Changes in any of a number of these assumptions could have had a substantial impact on the fair value assigned to the patents for accounting purposes. These inputs and assumptions represent management's best estimates at the time of the transaction. The impact that a five-percent change in the estimated aggregate value of the patents acquired would have had on 2024 revenue, patent amortization and pre-tax income is summarized in the following table (in thousands): Change in estimate Estimated value of patents acquired in connection with PLAs +5% -5% Revenue $ 732 $ (732) Less: Patent amortization 614 (614) Pre-tax income $ 118 $ (118) Compensation Programs We use a variety of compensation programs to attract, retain and motivate our employees, and to align employee compensation more closely with company performance. These programs include, but are not limited to, short-term incentives tied to performance goals, cash awards to inventors for filed patent applications and patent issuances, and long-term incentives in the form of stock option awards, time-based restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, performance-based RSU awards and cash awards, noting equity awards are granted pursuant to the terms and conditions of our Equity Plans (as defined within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Our long-term incentives, including equity awards, typically include annual equity or cash award grants with three to five year vesting periods; as a result, in any one year, we are typically accounting for at least three active cycles. 36 Table of Contents The aggregate amount of performance compensation expense we record in a period, under both short-term and long-term incentive compensation programs, requires the input of subjective assumptions and is a function of our estimated progress toward performance goals at both the beginning and the end of the period. Our estimated progress toward goals under performance equity grants is based on meeting a minimum confidence level of achievement in accordance with accounting rules for share-based compensation. Due to the binary nature of patent license agreements, performance awards with milestone goals are typically not expensed until the goal has been achieved. Achievement rates can vary by performance cycle and from period to period, resulting in variability in our compensation expense. We account for compensation costs associated with share-based compensation based on the fair value of the instruments issued. The estimated value of stock options includes assumptions around expected life, stock volatility and dividends. For stock options considered to be plain vanilla options, the Company estimates the expected term based on the simplified method as prescribed by Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 14. The simplified method was used because the Company does not believe it has sufficient historical exercise data to provide a reasonable basis for the expected term of its grants. In all periods, our policy has been to set the value of RSUs awards equal to the value of our underlying common stock on the date of measurement. For grants with graded vesting, we amortize the associated unrecognized compensation cost using an accelerated method. For grants that cliff vest, we amortize the associated unrecognized compensation cost on a straight-line basis over their vesting term. For awards containing performance conditions, we recognize compensation expense ratably over the vesting period when it is probable that the stated performance targets will be achieved and record cumulative adjustments in the period in which estimates change. In the event of canceled awards, we adjust compensation expense recognized to date as they occur. Tax windfalls and shortfalls related to the tax effects of employee share-based compensation are included in our tax provision. On the consolidated statements of cash flows, tax windfalls and shortfalls related to employee share-based compensation awards are included within operating activities and cash paid to tax authorities for shares withheld are included within financing activities. The inclusion of windfalls and shortfalls in the tax provision could increase our earnings volatility between periods. Tax windfalls and shortfalls related to share-based compensation was windfalls of $4.9 million and $3.1 million for the years ended 2024 and 2023, respectively, and shortfalls for the year ended 2022 of $0.4 million. The below table summarizes our supplemental compensation expense for 2024, 2023 and 2022, in thousands: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Short-term incentive compensation $ 27,589 $ 19,780 $ 24,341 Time-based awards (a) 25,499 26,426 15,422 Performance-based awards (a) 20,756 10,035 8,155 Total supplemental compensation expense $ 73,844 $ 56,241 $ 47,918 (a) For 2024, 2023 and 2022, approximately 1%, 3%, and 8%, respectively, of the aggregate expense associated with time-based and performance-based awards related to cash awards. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the consolidated statement of income in the period in which the change was enacted. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets if management has determined that it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized. In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. We are subject to examinations by the U.S. IRS and other taxing jurisdictions on various tax matters, including challenges to various positions we assert in our filings. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 37 Table of Contents The financial statement recognition of the benefit for an uncertain tax position is dependent upon the benefit being more likely than not to be sustainable upon audit by the applicable tax authority. If this threshold is met, the tax benefit is then measured and recognized at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. In the event that the IRS or another taxing jurisdiction levies an assessment in the future, it is possible the assessment could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Between 2014 and 2024, we paid approximately $141.9 million in foreign taxes to foreign governments that have tax treaties with the U.S., for which we have claimed foreign tax credits against our U.S. tax obligations, and for which the tax treaty procedures are still open. It is possible that as a result of tax treaty procedures, the U.S. government may reach an agreement with the related foreign governments that will result in a partial refund of foreign taxes paid with a related reduction in our foreign tax credits. Due to foreign currency fluctuations, any such agreement could result in foreign currency gain or loss. If the matter had been resolved as of December 31, 2024, we would have recognized a loss up to $22.8 million based on exchange rates and prior competent authority resolutions. On November 8, 2019, the Company received notification that its request for competent authority pertaining to Article 25 (Mutual Agreement Procedure) of the United States-Republic of Finland Income Tax Convention had been reviewed by the IRS and an agreement has been reached (the Finland Competent Authority Proceeding). As a result of this agreement, the Company does not anticipate any tax consequences. New Accounting Guidance Refer to Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Guidance" within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of recently issued accounting guidance. Legal Proceedings We are routinely involved in disputes associated with enforcement and licensing activities regarding our intellectual property, including litigations, arbitrations and other proceedings. These litigations, arbitrations and other proceedings are important means to enforce our intellectual property rights. We are a party to other disputes and legal actions not related to our intellectual property, but also arising in the ordinary course of our business. Refer to Note 12, Litigation and Legal Proceedings, to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included below in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a description of our material legal proceedings. FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our primary sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, as well as cash generated from operations. We believe we have the ability to obtain additional liquidity through debt and equity financings. From time to time, we may engage in a variety of transactions to augment our liquidity position as our business dictates and to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions, including the incurrence or issuance of debt and the refinancing or restructuring of existing debt. Based on our past performance and current expectations, we believe our available sources of funds, including cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash generated from our operations, will be sufficient to finance our operations, capital requirements, debt obligations, existing stock repurchase program, dividend program, and other contractual obligations discussed below in both the short-term over the next twelve months, and the long-term beyond twelve months. Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had the following amounts of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments (in thousands): December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 Increase / (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 527,360 $ 437,076 $ 90,284 Restricted cash included within prepaid and other current assets 24,187 5,885 18,302 Short-term investments 430,848 569,280 (138,432) Total cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments $ 982,395 $ 1,012,241 $ (29,846) The net decrease in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments was attributable to cash used in financing activities of $272.4 million and cash used in investing activities of $47.2 million, excluding sales and purchases of short-term investments, partially offset by cash provided by operating activities of $271.5 million. Refer to the sections below for further discussion of these items. 38 Table of Contents Cash flows from operations We generated the following cash flows from our operating activities in 2024 and 2023 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Increase / (Decrease) Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 271,528 $ 213,733 $ 57,795 Our cash flows provided by operating activities are principally derived from cash receipts from patent license agreements, offset by cash operating expenses and income tax payments. The $57.8 million change in net cash provided by operating activities was driven by higher cash receipts from new agreements and due to timing of cash receipts under existing agreements. This increase was partially offset by an increase in cash operating expenses primarily due to increased revenue share costs from new patent license agreements. The table below sets forth the significant items comprising our cash flows provided by operating activities during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Increase / (Decrease) Total Cash Receipts $ 673,910 $ 492,004 $ 181,906 Cash Outflows: Cash operating expenses (a) (313,125) (211,525) (101,600) Income taxes paid (b) (67,541) (59,202) (8,339) Total cash outflows (380,666) (270,727) (109,939) Other working capital adjustments (21,716) (7,544) (14,172) Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 271,528 $ 213,733 $ 57,795 (a) Cash operating expenses include operating expenses less depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of patents, and non-cash compensation. Amount includes revenue share costs of $81.3 million and $3.3 million in 2024 and 2023, respectively. (b) Income taxes paid include foreign withholding taxes. Cash provided by or used in investing and financing activities Net cash provided by investing activities in 2024 was $109.5 million, a $194.6 million change from $85.2 million net cash used in investing activities in 2023. During 2024, we sold $156.7 million of short-term marketable securities, net of purchases, and capitalized $63.0 million of patent costs, patent purchases, and property and equipment purchases. Additionally, we received $15.8 million of net cash receipts from the sales our long-term strategic investments. During 2023, we purchased $38.7 million of short-term marketable securities, net of sales, and capitalized $44.6 million of patent costs and property and equipment purchases. Net cash used in financing activities for 2024 was $272.4 million, a $116.4 million change from net cash used in financing activities of $388.8 million in 2023. This change was primarily attributable to a $273.0 million decrease in share repurchases in 2024 compared to 2023, of which $203.4 million was related to the Company's modified "Dutch auction" tender offer in 2023. This change was partially offset by $141.4 million of payments on our long-term debt, of which $126.2 million was related to the maturity of the 2024 Notes. Other Our combined short-term and long-term deferred revenue balance at December 31, 2024 was $360.1 million, a decrease of $17.3 million from December 31, 2023. Based on current license agreements, we expect the amortization of dynamic fixed-fee royalty payments to reduce the December 31, 2024 deferred revenue balance by $178.0 million over the next twelve months. 39 Table of Contents Convertible Notes Refer to Note 10, "Obligations" within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for definitions of capitalized terms used below. The 2024 Notes matured on June 1, 2024 resulting in 0.3 million of common shares being issued. This issuance was effectively offset by the settlement of the 2024 Note Hedge Transactions resulting in zero net shares being issued on June 1, 2024. Additionally, the 2024 Warrant Transactions settled on a net-share basis during 2024 resulting in the issuance of 0.5 million shares related to the 2024 Warrant Transactions. Our 2027 Notes are included in the dilutive earnings per share calculation using the if-converted method. Under the if-converted method, we must assume that conversion of convertible securities occurs at the beginning of the reporting period. The 2027 Notes are convertible into cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Notes to be converted and any remaining obligation may be settled in cash, shares of the Companys common stock or a combination thereof. As the principal amount must be paid in cash and only the conversion spread is settled in shares, we only include the net number of incremental shares that would be issued upon conversion. We must calculate the number of shares of our common stock issuable under the terms of the 2027 Notes based on the average market price of our common stock during the applicable reporting period and include that number in the total diluted shares figure for the period. At the time we issued the 2027 Notes, we entered into the 2027 Call Spread Transactions that together were designed to have the economic effect of reducing the net number of shares that will be issued in the event of conversion of the 2027 Notes by, in effect, increasing the conversion price of the 2027 Notes from our economic standpoint. However, under GAAP, since the impact of the 2027 Note Hedge Transactions is anti-dilutive, we exclude from the calculation of fully diluted shares the number of shares of our common stock that we would receive from the counterparties to these agreements upon settlement. During periods in which the average market price of our common stock is above the applicable conversion price of the Convertible Notes ($77.49 per share for the 2027 Notes as of December 31, 2024) or above the weighted average strike price of the warrants ($106.22 per share for the 2027 Warrant Transactions s as of December 31, 2024), the impact of conversion or exercise, as applicable, would be dilutive and such dilutive effect is reflected in diluted earnings per share. As a result, in periods where the average market price of our common stock is above the conversion price or strike price, as applicable, under the if-converted method, we calculate the number of shares issuable under the terms of the 2027 Notes and the warrants based on the average market price of the stock during the period, and include that number in the total diluted shares outstanding for the period. 40 Table of Contents Under the if-converted method, changes in the price per share of our common stock can have a significant impact on the number of shares that we must include in the fully diluted earnings per share calculation. As described in Note 10, "Obligations" within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, the 2027 Notes are convertible into cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Notes to be converted and any remaining obligation may be in cash, shares of the Companys common stock or a combination thereof ("net share settlement"). Assuming net share settlement upon conversion, the following tables illustrate how, based on the $460.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Notes outstanding as of December 31, 2024, and the approximately 5.9 million warrants related to the 2027 Notes, outstanding as of the same date, changes in our stock price would affect (i) the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the 2027 Notes, (ii) the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants subject to the 2027 Warrant Transactions, (iii) the number of additional shares deemed outstanding with respect to the 2027 Notes, after applying the if-converted method, for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share ("Total If-Converted Method Incremental Shares"), (iv) the number of shares of our common stock deliverable to us upon settlement of the 2027 Note Hedge Transactions and (v) the number of shares issuable upon concurrent conversion of the 2027 Notes, exercise of the warrants subject to the 2027 Warrant Transactions, and settlement of the 2027 Note Hedge Transactions (in thousands): 2027 Notes Market Price Per Share Shares Issuable Upon Conversion of the 2027 Notes Shares Issuable Upon Exercise of the 2027 Warrant Transactions Total If-Converted Method Incremental Shares Shares Deliverable to InterDigital upon Settlement of the 2027 Note Hedge Transactions Incremental Shares Issuable (a) $106 1,612 1,612 (1,612) $120 2,119 691 2,810 (2,119) 691 $130 2,414 1,095 3,509 (2,414) 1,095 $140 2,666 1,442 4,108 (2,666) 1,442 $150 2,885 1,743 4,628 (2,885) 1,743 $160 3,077 2,006 5,083 (3,077) 2,006 $170 3,246 2,238 5,484 (3,246) 2,238 $180 3,397 2,444 5,841 (3,397) 2,444 $190 3,531 2,629 6,160 (3,531) 2,629 $200 3,652 2,795 6,447 (3,652) 2,795 $210 3,762 2,946 6,708 (3,762) 2,946 $220 3,861 3,082 6,943 (3,861) 3,082 $230 3,952 3,207 7,159 (3,952) 3,207 $240 4,035 3,321 7,356 (4,035) 3,321 $250 4,112 3,427 7,539 (4,112) 3,427 (a) Represents incremental shares issuable upon concurrent conversion of convertible notes, exercise of warrants and settlement of the hedge agreements. 41 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2024 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Thereafter 2027 Notes(a) $ 460,000 $ $ 460,000 $ $ Contractual interest payments on the 2027 Notes(a) 38,953 16,100 22,853 Purchase obligations (b) 23,078 23,078 Operating lease obligations 22,628 4,559 8,542 7,037 2,490 Defined benefit plan obligations (c) 4,457 369 356 710 3,022 Total contractual obligations $ 549,116 $ 44,106 $ 491,751 $ 7,747 $ 5,512 (a)The table above represents the payment made on the maturity date of the 2027 Notes. From the period January 1, 2024 through March 31, 2025, the holders of the 2027 Notes have the right, but not the obligation, to convert any portion of the principal amount of the 2027 Notes. We will pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Notes to be converted, if any, and will pay cash, shares of our Common Stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our Common Stock for any conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount being converted at our election. Refer to Note 10, Obligations, within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for details of our 2027 Notes. (b)Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services that are legally binding on us, as well as accounts payable. Our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2024 includes a $13.8 million non-current liability for uncertain tax positions. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. (c)Refer to Note 11, "Commitments," within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for details of our defined benefit plan obligations. Estimated future benefit payments included above are through 2030. As discussed above we believe our available sources of funds, including cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash generated from our operations, will be sufficient to finance these contractual obligations discussed below in both the short-term over the next twelve month, and the long-term beyond twelve months. As of December 31, 2024, we have a debt obligation of $17.0 million related to the Technicolor Patent Acquisition. Additionally, we are subject to a revenue-sharing arrangement with Technicolor resulting from the Technicolor Acquisitions. There is no liability associated with the revenue-share agreement at December 31, 2024, as there are no minimum or maximum payments under the revenue-sharing arrangement, and, except in certain circumstances, the arrangement continues through December 31, 2038. Refer to Note 10, "Obligations," within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information. Due to the uncertainty regarding the timing and amount of future payments related to these items, the amounts are excluded from the contractual obligations table above. 42 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2024 Compared with 2023 Revenues The following table compares 2024 revenues to 2023 revenues (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Increase/(Decrease) Recurring revenues: Smartphone $ 316,899 $ 347,124 $ (30,225) (9) % CE, IoT/Auto 89,252 59,858 29,394 49 % Other 2,296 1,410 886 63 % Total recurring revenues 408,447 408,392 55 % Catch-up revenues (a) 460,069 141,196 318,873 226 % Total revenues $ 868,516 $ 549,588 $ 318,928 58 % (a) Catch-up revenues are comprised of past patent royalties and revenues from static fixed-fee agreements. Total revenues of $868.5 million increased 58% from $549.6 million in 2023 primarily due to catch-up revenues from new agreements signed in 2024, including the Samsung TV and OPPO agreements, as well as revenue recognized on the Lenovo cellular license resulting from the UK proceedings and arbitration agreement. Recurring revenues were relatively flat compared to 2023 with increased CE, IoT/Auto revenue mostly offsetting the 2023 expiration of Huawei and other smartphone agreements. In 2024 and 2023, 79% and 76% of our total revenues were attributable to companies that individually accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues, respectively. In 2024 and 2023, the following licensees or customers accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Customer A 30% 14% Customer B 20% 27% Customer C 15% 24% Customer D 14% % Customer E <10% 11% 43 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table summarizes the change in operating expenses by category (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Increase/(Decrease) Research and portfolio development $ 196,903 $ 195,285 $ 1,618 1 % Licensing 169,239 79,397 89,842 113 % General and administrative 62,862 53,291 9,571 18 % Total operating expenses $ 429,004 $ 327,973 $ 101,031 31 % Operating expenses increased 31% to $429.0 million in 2024 from $328.0 million in 2023. The $101.0 million increase in total operating expenses was primarily due to increases/(decreases) in the following items (in thousands): Increase/(Decrease) Revenue share costs $ 77,986 Intellectual property enforcement 19,279 Performance-based compensation 17,603 Net litigation fee reimbursement (11,898) Other (1,939) Total increase in operating expenses $ 101,031 The $101.0 million increase in operating expenses was driven by a $78.0 million increase in revenue share costs primarily related to the catch-up revenues recognized from the Samsung TV and TPV agreements. Additionally, intellectual property enforcement costs increased $19.3 million due to costs associated with the Lenovo and OPPO proceedings, as well as the Samsung arbitration, and performance-based compensation increased $17.6 million due to higher accrual rates driven by licensing successes. These increases were partially offset by a change in the nonrecurring net litigation reimbursement of $4.4 million contra-expense recorded in 2024 compared to $7.5 million of expense recorded in 2023. Research and portfolio development expense: Research and portfolio development expense were relatively flat compared to 2023. Licensing expense: The $89.8 million increase in licensing expense primarily resulted from the above-noted increases in revenue share, intellectual property enforcement, and performance-based compensation costs, partially offset by the net litigation fee reimbursement activity. General and administrative expense: The $9.6 million increase in general and administrative expense was primarily driven by the above-noted increase in performance-based compensation. Non-Operating (Expense) Income, Net The following table compares 2024 non-operating expense to 2023 non-operating income (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Change Interest expense $ (45,421) $ (44,817) $ (604) (1) % Interest and investment income 40,395 46,628 (6,233) (13) % Other (5,070) 11,184 (16,254) (145) % Total non-operating (expense) income, net $ (10,096) $ 12,995 $ (23,091) (178) % Interest expense was flat compared to 2023 and the $6.2 million decrease in interest and investment income was primarily due to lower average amounts held in short-term investments. 44 Table of Contents The change in Other was primarily due to fair value adjustments of our investments and pension obligation resulting in $5.4 million and $12.1 million of net gains in 2024 and 2023, respectively, and due to a foreign currency translation net loss arising primarily from euro translation of our foreign subsidiaries of $7.9 million in 2024, compared to $1.0 million foreign currency translation net gains in 2023. Income Taxes In 2024, based on the statutory federal tax rate net of discrete federal and state taxes, our effective tax rate is 16.5%, as compared to an effective tax of 10.0% in 2023. The increase in the effective rate was primarily attributable the impact of a higher percentage of foreign derived intangible income and a larger reversal of a valuation allowance in the prior year. 45 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Such statements include certain information in Part I, Item 1. Business and Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other information regarding our current beliefs, plans and expectations, including, without limitation, the matters set forth below. Words such as "believe," anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, forecast, "goal," "could," "would," "should," "if," "may," "might," "future," "target," "trend," "seek to," "will continue," "predict," "likely," "in the event," variations of any such words or similar expressions contained herein are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made on the basis of managements current views and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance. Although the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements concerning our business, results of operations and financial condition are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. We caution readers that actual results and outcomes could differ materially from those expressed in or anticipated by such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including those set forth below: unanticipated delays, difficulties or accelerations in the execution of patent license agreements on acceptable terms or at all; our ability to expand our revenue opportunities by entering into licensing arrangements with video streaming and other cloud-based service providers; the resolution of legal proceedings, including any awards or judgments relating to such proceedings, and changes in the schedules or costs associated therewith; our ability to identify and acquire technology and patent portfolios that align with our roadmap; our ability to commercialize our technologies; the failure of the markets for our current or new technologies to materialize to the extent or at the rate that we expect; our continued ability to develop new technologies and secure new patents, including the risk of unexpected delays or difficulties related to the development of our technologies; our continued leadership within standards and industry groups and our ability to ensure our inventions become standardized; risks associated with our capital allocation strategies, including risks associated with our planned dividend payments and share repurchases; changes in our interpretations of, and assumptions and calculations with respect to the impact on us of, the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and other U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws; the timing and impact of potential regulatory, administrative and legislative matters; U.S./China trade and/or national security tensions; changes or inaccuracies in market projections; our ability to retain and hire key personnel; our ability to enter into sales and/or licensing partnering arrangements for certain of our patent assets; the potential effects that macroeconomic uncertainty could have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows; operational risks, including cybersecurity events, external hazards, human failures or other difficulties with our information technology systems that could disrupt our business or result in the loss of critical and confidential information and/or increased costs; impacts from acts of terrorism, war or political or civil unrest, or any responses thereto, in the United States or elsewhere; changes in our business strategy; and risks related to any new accounting standards or our assumptions and application of relevant accounting standards, including with respect to revenue recognition. You should carefully consider these factors as well as the risks and uncertainties outlined in greater detail in Part I, Item 1A, of this Form 10-K before making any investment decision with respect to our common stock. These factors, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expected and historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. In addition, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein, which are made only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as otherwise required by law. 46 Table of Contents